I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I understand that under the existing Commonwealth Aid 
Roads Agreement the Government is unable to make a special grant to the South Australian Government for the purpose of completing the sealing of the Eyre Highway. As this road is used by mostly interstate traffic and as the State Government is unable to allocate sufficient funds for this work, would the Minister recommend to his colleague in another place that the Federal Government provides a long term low interest loan to the South Australian Government to enable this important national highway to be completed as a matter of urgency? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. It concerns the committee established by his colleague to review the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Can the Minister tell me who is represented on this committee and the terms of reference prescribed for this review? In view of the industrial unrest that is ravaging Australia, particularly South Australia, and the fact that an irresponsible militant minority group within the trade union movement has cost the wage earners something like S56m during the last 12 months, will the Minister ask his colleague to exert every effort to bring these deliberations to a speedy conclusion so that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act can be strengthened and upgraded to give adequate protection to all parties and help to restore industrial peace to Australia? 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that, under the arrangements by which the imposition of pay-roll tax will be transferred to the States, local government will no longer have to pay pay-roll tax? If so, will the Minister give further details of those arrangements to the Senate? In particular, will he inform the Senate of the date as from which the local government authorities will be exempted from this tax? 
At the Premiers Conference in June the Commonwealth, therefore, agreed that in transferring pay-roll tax to the States it would meet the full costs which the States would incur in exempting local government authorities from payment of pay-roll tax other than in respect of their business activities. The Commonwealth will meet this cost, which is estimated to be nearly $6m in 1971-72 and about $8m in a full year, by paying to the States higher financial assistance grants than it would otherwise have done. All States have agreed to exempt their local government authorities, and therefore they will become exempt as from the date of transfer of the tax. The States have asked that the tax be transferred as from 1st September 1971. 
Subject, of course, to the necessary legislation being passed by the parliaments of the 6 States and the Commonwealth, the tax will be transferred on that' date. The Government already has received expressions of appreciation from representatives of local government about this decision. We are confident it also will have the support of the Senate. 
Did the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport notice last week a reported statement attributed to the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner and indicating that there will be a substantial increase in freight charges for goods carried on those railways on 1st October? Did he notice that the freight on livestock will be increased by 15 per cent? Bearing in mind the current economic pressures experienced by the depressed rural industries, will he discuss this matter with his colleague with a view to asking the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner to reassess this added penalty on primary producers? 
Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen a Press statement concerning a conference to be held in Ottawa in mid September at the instigation of Japan to discuss currency reform? Is it a fact that Australia has not been given an opportunity to be involved in these discussions? Considering the volume of trade carried out between Australia and Japan and the consequent importance to this country of decisions made at that conference, can the Minister inform the Senate what steps the Australian Government will take to ensure that Australia's views on this matter are taken into account? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI think that it would be more appropriate for me to refer the honourable senator's question to the Treasurer. The situation at the present time is reasonably quiet in relation to these matters, as we all appreciate. Nevertheless I am not in a position to give a definitive answer to the very complex matters raised by the honourable senator. Indeed, they are probably the most complex things in the field of economics to which one could have proper regard. I do not think it an appropriate matter to be dealt with at question time, but I shall refer the honourable senator's question to the Treasurer today. No doubt he will respond to it as quickly as he is able. 
My question  is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General and refers to phase 7 of the television extension programme, f understand that the original programme provided for the completion of the installation of a transmitter at Ceduna in South Australia during the first part of this 4- year period and that the Woomera area would be catered for during the latter stages. Can the Minister inform me whether these projects are meeting the schedule and, if so, when is it expected the Ceduna station will be commissioned? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969,I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Replacement of Accommodation (1971 Reference) at HMAS Albatross, Nowra, New South Wales. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for National 
Development say whether the Commonwealth Government has received a
            submission from the South Australian Government for an allocation from the National
            Water Resources Fund for the purpose of completing the water pipeline from the Polda
            Basin to Kimba on Eyre Peninsula? Is the Minister aware that people in this
            comparatively dry area have been forced to cart water during the summer months over a
            long period? Will the Minister assure me that this vital project is given an urgent
            priority so that the completion of this important pipeline and branch lines may be
            advanced? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Works. I refer to the extensions to
              the Sydney international airport runway for the use of jumbo jets. How far does this
              runway project into Botany Bay? Has the Department of Works studied the hydrological
              effects of this runway on the natural currents in that area? What does the Department
              intend to do to prevent possible foreshore excavation due to the interruption of the
              wave pattern? 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  First of
              all, I should like you to convey to the President our pleasure at his elevation to the
              high office of President of the Senate. I am sure that he will uphold the dignity of
              his predecessors and will enhance the reputation of the Senate. To you,  Mr Deputy President,  1 offer my congratulations on your
              elevation. Knowing you personally, I know that you will provide the President with
              very valuable assistance. I pay tribute to the officers of the Senate who have given
              me a considerable amount of help in the short time that 1 have been here. They give us
              so much help that we sometimes take it for granted. I am pleased to return to Canberra
              after an absence of 18 months. It is like returning home even though I have changed
              residence and will have to become accustomed to the furnishings which are of a
              different colour. However, I feel honoured to represent my State in the Senate and
              will do all that I can to promote the interests of South Australia during my term in
              office. 
The Senate has undergone a significant change following the introduction of the
            committee system. It is to the credit of all senators that this change has occurred, and
            I congratulate all concerned in it. I know that the Government has been encouraged in
            this move by the Leader of the Opposition <inline font-weight="bold">(Senator
              Murphy)</inline> and by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair).  No doubt the new system will enable the
            Senate to fulfil more efficiently its role in disseminating information to the people of
            Australia on departmental functioning and the areas of concern that are referred to the
            committees by the Senate from time to time. However, knowing the additional burden that
            this system placed upon the shoulders of my South Australian colleagues during the last
            recess - I refer to Senators Buttfield, Davidson, Laucke and Young - I believe that we
            should watch the situation carefully to ensure that a proper balance is preserved
            between our function as a House of the Parliament, our newly found standing committee
            role and our responsibility to the electorate because, however important those former
            activities may be, we must realise that sufficient time has to be allowed us to service
            the electorate. 
I have listened tonight with great interest to 2 maiden speeches. One in particular
            impressed me greatly. I refer to that of my colleague,  Senator Bonner.  The sincerity he displayed should give his own people
            confidence and certainly will enable him to represent not only his own people but also
            the people of Queensland generally with sincerity and dedication of purpose. I do not
            think I have ever heard such an incisive and thoughtful treatment of a Budget than I
            heard from  Senator Carrick  tonight. 1 pay tribute to
            him. I f rn now to the Budget that is before the Senate. Budgets have been subjected to
            adverse criticism from time immemorial. This Budget has suffered a similar fate. It has
            been said that this Budget adversely affects the average person but, of course, all
            Budgets affect the average person, either for good or ill, because most people in
            Australia are average people. I believe that this Budget is a responsible one, bearing
            in mind the delicate economic situation prevalent in Australia, today. Budgets are never
            framed lightheartedly and this one has been presented only after a great deal of thought
            and consideration by the various departments concerned in co-operation with the
            Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  whose difficult task it has
            been to allocate priorities. This is a task that I find extremely unenviable. However,
            there are several areas to which 
I feel the Government must give more attention, and I will briefly
            comment on some of these. 
In the field of social services I believe that the Government can be proud of what
            it has tried to do over the last 22 years. There has been a progressive increase in the
            basic rate pension during that time. The married pension rate was increased by $1 a week
            per person to give a combined maximum pension of $30.50. The single pension rate was
            increased by $1.25 to bring this pension to $17.25 a week. These increases, with the
            supplementary provision made soon after  Mr McMahon 
            became Prime Minister, clearly indicate that the Government is paying some regard to the
            welfare of the older people and the needy in our community. Other provisions under the
            heading of social welfare also have shown a welcome advance. Despite all this I am of
            the opinion that the Government should and must recognise the urgent need for a complete
            reassessment of our attitude to all areas of social welfare in the light of the
            requirements of the 1970s. I realise that this is a costly aspect of government
            consideration and I can understand any government approaching the subject with caution. 
I was pleased that the Minister for Social Services, <inline font-weight="bold">Mr
              Wentworth,</inline> submitted a plan for a national superannuation scheme to the
            Cabinet for consideration. There are obviously good reasons why the Cabinet was
            unwilling to accede to his proposal at this stage. Although the details of his
            recommendations are not known to me I wholeheartedly support this idea in principle as I
            believe that this Government has the expertise to work out some satisfactory scheme in
            co-operation with private enterprise insurance companies that would present the people
            of Australia with a basic superannuation scheme that would guarantee them a reasonable
            retiring allowance. Some weeks ago I was asked to join the Pension Reform Campaign
            Committee. This is a non-political organisation. I was approached by a Reverend
            Hollingworth of the Brotherhood of St Laurence, and I agreed to join this Committee
            because I support the main objective of this organisation. It requests the Federal
            Government to establish an independent inquiry into the rationale of all our social
            security systems, covering the methods of payment of pensions and other forms of benefit
            for the aged, widowed, sick, deserted wives and unemployed, with terms of reference wide
            enough to permit all interested parties to put forward constructive ideas for new
            approaches. It would include an examination of the adequacy or otherwise of existing
            pensions, and of possible alternative methods of both fixing and financing them. 
This inquiry should be independent of departmental and government influence. There
            have been other such committees formed in the past. We have seen evidence of the
            Government taking notice of the recommendations of such committees and implementing some
            of the recommendations, particularly with regard to national health. I am sure that the
            establishment of such a committee would bring forward many worthwhile suggestions that
            could be implemented by the Government. I respectfully ask the Prime Minister and the
            Minister for Social Services to implement this idea as I feel it would provide a sound
            basis for government planning for future advances in this important field. 
I would like to congratulate  Senator Negus  on
            his maiden speech. He obviously is a strong advocate of the abolition of the estate and
            succession duties. But I think it would interest him to know that he is not the only one
            who has advocated such a move. In South Australia a month ago the Liberal and Country
            League at its conference passed several motions relating to this subject. These motions
            were that special rural rebate from succession duties be granted irrespective of the
            form of ownership of such rural land; that we move for the total abolition of succession
            duties; that the matrimonial home be excluded from all calculations for succession and
            estate duties; that we call on the Federal Government to abolish Federal estate duties
            and request the LCL to find alternative sources of revenue to reduce the burden of State
            succession duties and report back at a later date. These are some of the motions which
            indicate that there is a lot of support on this side of the chamber for the measures
            proposed by  Senator Negus. 

 Senator Davidson has already demonstrated support in
            this regard. A morion stands in his name on the Senate notice paper in the following
            terms: 
That, as soon as possible after the appointment of the members of the Committee,
              there be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations the
              following matters: 
The effects of Estate, Succession, Probate, Death and like duties, imposed by: 
the revenues of the respective Governments (having regard to cost factors
                      involved in their collection, and 
economic circumstances of individuals and communities. 
The social consequences of levying such duties and taxes. 
With regard to estate duties, it is not as though we are dealing with
            a large amount of money. In fact, in a Budget of some $8,000m to $9,000m, we are looking
            at a figure of about $5m. The figures that I was looking at a while ago relate to the
            1968- 69 financial year. I think this will suffice for the purposes of this
            illustration. In that year there were 4,999,423 taxpayers in Australia and the amount
            collected by the Government from 1,061 estates was $5,996,000 or an average of $5,651.
            My worry at the present time is the tremendous burden that this places on the
            comparatively few rural estates that can quite easily run into 6 figures. In view of the
            depressed state of the rural industries I believe that the Government could well afford
            to abolish this duty. It is rather extraordinary, when one works it out, that if this
            duty were abolished and a measure were introduced in the form of direct taxation it
            would mean that only something like $1.20 would be paid by each taxpayer per year. I do
            not think this is a very considerable sum when lt is taken in the general context of the
            Budget. 
I was pleased to note that the Budget allowed for an increase in the operational
            subsidy paid to the Royal Flying Doctor Service. An additional $135,000 per annum is
            being made available. This brings the new allocation for the next 3 years to $315,000.
            This would seem to be a fairly generous increase if it were not for the fact that the
            capital grant of $170,000 per annum that has applied for the past 3 years is to be
            continued at the same level for the 1971-74 period. This is clearly inadequate because
            the immediate requirement for capital projects, including aircraft, is $3.25m for the
            current triennium. As an example I would like to draw the attention of the Senate to the
            need of the Northern Territory section of the Royal 
Flying Doctor Service for the immediate replacement of 2 twin engine
            aircraft, which are over 10 years old, to service this vast area. These aircraft would
            cost in the vicinity of $200,000 each. This seems to dwarf what would at first sight
            appear to be a generous Commonwealth Government contribution to this most important
            medical service for the people living in the outback areas of Australia. 
I do not think a lot of us realise just how important this service is. Mining
            operations are carried on in the remote areas. Stations employ many people. There are
            thousands of tourists who travel through the Northern Territory. There are thousands of
            people who travel on the transcontinental and the north-south railway line. All of these
            people are afforded the protection and the mantle of safety that is provided by the
            Royal Flying Doctor Service. At present the Royal Flying Doctor base at Port Augusta in
            South Australia is planning to employ an additional medical officer to serve an area of
            over 300,000 square miles. At present the service is in the unique position that it
            relies on the local medical practice to guarantee the present doctor's salary. This
            situation cannot be allowed to persist and I am convinced that the Commonwealth and
            State governments must take a more intensive interest in providing sufficient money to
            ensure that adequate salaries, aircraft and other technical aids be provided so that
            this organisation can continue to function efficiently. 
Another aspect concerns medical centres located throughout the remote areas of
            Australia which are currently run by organisations such as the Australian Inland
            Mission, the Bush Church Aid and the District Bush Nursing Society. All of these
            organisations have dedicated personnel and are constantly meeting the frustration of
            finding money to provide the services necessary for this important medical facility. The
            calls on this service in Australia have increased to the extent where it is virtually
            impossible for community organisations to raise voluntarily this sort of money.
            Certainly they are in a position to raise funds to provide for additional amentities for
            the outback hospitals run by this service. I would not suggest for one moment that this
            aspect of their operations should not continue. I know that my wife and friends work in
            a dedicated fashion to support the fund raising projects of this organisation. The South
            Australian section at present is in the financial position of having liquid assets of
            $49,000 and liabilities of $38,000 leaving $11,000 as working capital. This would enable
            that section of the organisation to meet expenditure necessary to keep the service
            running for just over 1 month. The service relies on the efforts of the Royal Flying
            Doctor Auxiliary which raised $16,000 in South Australia during last year. The South
            Australian section is hopeful of benefiting from legacies to this dedicated cause. It
            seems to me that as the Flying Doctor Service extends throughout South Australia, the
            Northern Territory, Western Australia, New South Wales and Queensland, the Commonwealth
            Government should assume the major responsibility for providing additional finance. 
I am sorry. As I said, I believe the Commonwealth should accept the major
                responsibility for providing the additional finance and if possible assist in the
                medical staffing of the various bases throughout Australia. For this reason I ask
                the Minister for Health <inline font-weight="bold">(Senator Sir Kenneth
                  Anderson)</inline> to give this matter his serious consideration. 
I would like to touch now on a matter that is of very great significance to South
            Australia, that is, the excise payable on wine. I am sure that the Government did not
            fully realise the penalty that would be placed upon the grape growers in South Australia
            when it introduced this measure last year. 1 believe that the Department's advice on
            this matter was not fully considered and that the Department did not realise the full
            implications of this impost that has caused considerable damage to one of the few viable
            rural industries in South Australia. It must be remembered that South Australia produces
            about 70 per cent of the wine produced in Australia and 90 per cent of the brandy.
            Consequently this industry is relatively unimportant to other  States but  is of vital significance to South Australia.
            Although I was not in the Parliament at the time when this measure was introduced I
            wrote to the Minister for Customs and Excise and objected to this measure stating that I
            believed that the grape growers would suffer as a result and requested that he consider
            the introduction of an ad valorem sales tax on wine which would impose a greater penalty
            on the more expensive bottled still wines and sparkling wines and would relieve the
            pressure being placed on the bulk wines which form the greater volume of sales. The
            grape growers are the ones who will suffer most of all as a result of the imposition of
            this measure. I have some facts which demonstrate how serious this measure has proved to
            be, or will prove to be, to almost 3,000 growers in the River Murray area. 
The following is an actual example of a grower delivering 110 tons of grapes
            annually to a co-operative winery. In 1970, from June to December, he received $2,690.
            Since the impost, for the period June to December 1971 he will receive $1,579 which is a
            reduction of $1,100 in this grower's receipts for the 6 months period and this could
            conceivably grow to well over $2,000, probably nearer $3,000, if the present decline in
            sales should continue. The problem is more serious still in this case, which is similar
            to many others, because the co-operative takes an average of 6 years to complete payment
            for each vintage. Payments are made to the growers as the wine is sold. From figures
            available to me the total sales for 1970-71 will be down by about 2 million gallons
            compared with 1969-70 and it would appear that this will grow to a 4 million gallon
            deficit on projected sales for this year. It is obvious that a large surplus of wine
            will be created if the Government does not do something to arrest this trend. The
            position could best be relieved by removing or drastically reducing the tax on wines,
            particularly in the bulk area. 
A similar situation developed during 1964-65 in South Australia. At that time the
            State Government under  Sir Thomas  Playford lent the
            industry $750,000 to set up a separate pool at McLaren Vale to process surplus grapes.
            The present State Government maintains - and I believe that it is quite reasonable for
            it to adopt this attitude - that the present situation has been direcly created by the
            action of the Commonwealth in introducing this excise. It is understandable that the
            South Australian Government should not accept the responsibility for this situation.
            Another area that must receive some urgent consideration by the Commonwealth is the
            matter of imported wines and brandies. 1 was surprised to learn that 22.6 per cent of
            the brandy sold in Australia is imported. Therefore, I am sure that we should afford
            some protection against overseas interests which are jeopardising the sale of our local
            product. I understand that this matter may be referred to the Special Advisory Authority
            and 1 urge the Minister to take positive steps to see that the intrusion of imported
            wines and brandies does not continue to add to the problems of the grape growers of
            Australia. 
I would like to pay a tribute to the efforts being made by the honourable member for
            Angas  (Mr Giles)  in regard to this matter as he has
            worked strenuously to protect the interests of grape growers in his electorate and is
            continuing to make vigorous representations to the Government in an attempt to correct
            the position. Also, I would like to compliment <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
              Laucke</inline> for the support he has given the honourable member for Angas on this
            matter. 1 assure him of my full support in his endeavours to bring relief to the
            industry. I am of the opinion that unless the Government takes some action this tax will
            bring about the economic downfall of  a  formerly
            viable industry and subject the grape growers to a fate similar to that suffered by
            other sections of primary industry, necessitating future costly government subsidy. I
            notice that the Treasurer in his Budget Speech made reference to the report of the
            inter-departmental committee which was established to inquire into the facts of this
            impost, as a result of which he has decided not to alter the existing duty on wine.
            Although 1 have not seen this report 1 find it incredible that the inter-departmental
            committee did not advise some reduction in the excise. The Treasurer also has undertaken
            to keep this matter under review as he has admitted that some growers in the industry
            are experiencing serious problems. 
The Prime Minister received a deputation of South Australian Government senators in
            Adelaide last month. I was pleased that he gave an undertaking that he was prepared to
            review this matter if the grape growers continued to suffer as a result of the decline
            in sales, lt is comforting to know that he is prepared to have another look at this
            question. This indicates that the Government will not disregard tha plight of the
            industry. 
I have tried to be constructively critical about these matters which I consider are
            of extreme importance. I congratulate the Treasurer on the general responsibility of his
            Budget, which I am sure will stabilise the economy. I hope that when he presents his
            next Budget it will be possible to introduce many additional forward-looking measures
            for the benefit of the people of Australia. 
Is the Minister for Health aware of concern being expressed among boards of management of many hospitals throughout Australia relating to the inability of patients to be reimbursed through hospital benefit organisations for post-operative and out-patient treatment at hospitals? Can the Minister say whether the Government has completed its examination of section 19 of the National Health Act following the recommendation of the Commonwealth Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance and if so what is the Government's intention with regard to this matter? 
I have received a communication from a hospital in South Australia - the Mannum District Hospital, as I understand it. The Commonwealth Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance which was known as the Nimmo Committee, recommended that the Commonwealth and State governments work towards the integration of out-patient service into health insurance schemes. This is one of the few remaining recommendations of the Nimmo Committee currently under consideration by the Covernment. To date the Government has not been in a position to make additional funds available to enable the implementation of the recommendation. The honourable senator will appreciate that this is not something which, in its entirety, is within the responsibility of government but is something which has to be negotiated in the context of the various hospital and medical schemes. 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. I refer to the recent allegations of a breakdown in security in the Department of Supply in South Australia. What steps has the Minister taken in regard to future security measures within his Department? How does the Australian security record compare with that of other countries? 
Is the Minister for Works aware of a report that appeared several weeks ago in the 'Northern Territory News' to the effect that the old wooden hangar at the Royal Australian Air Force Station at Darwin would be burned to the ground? Is he aware also of a subsequent report in the same newspaper that workmen from the Commonwealth Experimental Building Station and the Darwin branch of the Department of Works were preparing the hangar for fire tests, but that the reporter concerned was told by an RAAF spokesman that the hangar would not necessarily be burned down? Can the Minister inform the Senate of what is happening to the hangar and whether there is any substance in the suggestion, which also appeared in the same newspaper, that the building is infested with white ants? 
In addressing my. question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport I . refer to a recent statement issued by the office of the Minister with regard to the training of Australian merchant seamen. The statement suggests that the present training systems for Australian seamen are fragmented, obsolete and too unsophisticated for today's complex shipping industry. It would therefore seem that there is a strong case for the establishment of an Australian nautical academy by which adequate training may be given to prospective seamen. Can the Minister indicate whether the Minister for Shipping and Transport has such an institution in mind? If so, to what extent will the Commonwealth Government be prepared to finance the proposal? Is the Minister aware that the South Australian Government through the Department of Marine and Harbors has made land available for this purpose sufficient to accommodate buildings, playing fields and so on? Will the Commonwealth Government seriously consider building an academy in South Australia? 
1 would like to thank  Senator Wilkinson  for his courtesy. When we think of population growth these days we automatically think in terms of ecology, the pollution of the ecosystem and so on. Perhaps this interest is growing because before  Dr Ehrlich  and his colleagues focused attention on the world population explosion probably the people of Australia did not know what ecology and these other terms meant. It is significant that the Senate is now discussing this important matter. I have no doubt that action is necessary to safeguard our future. We must encourage people to make a conscious effort not to use non-biodegradable materials, and so on. We must discourage them from using motor vehicles and encourage them to ride a bicycle or to walk. Naturally governments have to upgrade the standard and frequency of public transport. 
I became very conscious recently of the effects of water pollution when I and my colleagues on the Public Works Committee inquired into a Commonwealth sewerage project. I came to see that the Government must take a long term view and treat this matter as a national problem. I read with interest the findings of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The time allowed for the discussion of this matter having expired, the Senate will now proceed to the business of the day. 
Does the Minister for Health agree that ambulance services throughout Australia, such as the St John's 
Brigade, perform a life saving community function both as vital agents in carrying an ever increasing number of road accident victims to hospital and in the transport of urgent domestic medical cases? Can the Minister justify the . exclusion of annual subscriptions to these organisations as a taxation deduction? Will the Minister liaise with the Treasurer with the objective of including this important item as a tax deduction in the near future, as I believe this would encourage greater financial support which is so desperately needed by these ambulance organisations? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I refer to the estimated 11.3 per ««nt  increase  in the cost of the Dartmouth Dam, bringing the figure to $64m. Has the Minister seen a reported statement by the Premier of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Bolte, in which he said that Victoria could not afford to be involved in extra costs for the project? Is this increase due primarily to the unnecessarily long delay by the South Australian Government in reaching a decision on this matter? Can the Minister tell the Senate what steps are being taken by the Commonwealth Government to secure the extra finance? Will the Commonwealth deal wilh this project urgently, as it is vital to South Australia that the construction of this dam be completed at the earliest possible time? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for. Labour arid National Service noticed a report of the proceedings of the recent Queensland Industrial Relations Society convention stating that the Australian Labor Party spokesman on labour and national service,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, indicated that a possible Australian Labor Party Government would not end all the penal sanctions of the arbitration system? Is he able to say whether this is contrary to the wishes of the Australian Council of Trade Unions? Secondly, has he also noted that a leading Victorian trade union official is reported to have issued the warning that if  Mr Clyde  Cameron's views were made mandatory Victorian trade unions would not provide finance for the Australian Labor Party at the next Federal election? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the tremendous demand created by Australian weight watchers for grapefruit and grapefruit juice? Does the Minister realise that the same results can be achieved by the use of unsweetened orange juice? In the interests of the orange growers of this country who have surpluses of oranges, will the Minister ask his colleague to consider conducting a public relations campaign advocating the publication of diet charts incorporating orange juice as an ingredient which will benefit diet conscious Australians? 
ls the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service aware of the stated intention of the South Australian Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Steele  Hall, to introduce a private member's Bill calling for union secret ballots before strikes are approved? Is it a fact that many trade unionists will welcome such a move? Has the Minister also seen a report in which the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions is reported to have said that the entire resources of that organisation will be made available to the South Australian trade union movement to oppose the proposed legislation in Parliament? 
ls the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that many people in rural industry believe that a more equitable means of assisting the rural sector would be for the Commonwealth Government to provide finance in order to reduce interest rates for rural borrowings from financial institutions, rather than to persist with the current rural reconstruction scheme? Can the Minister tell me whether the Government is prepared to consider such a proposal? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister had sufficient time to assess the worth of the Australian Wool Commission to primary producers? Is he in a position to express in monetary terms the value of the operations of the Commission to the wool growers of Australia? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate, in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned Citizens of the Commonwealth, respectfully sheweth: 
That being concerned withthe environment of Adelaide in the State of South Australia and the growing noise nuisance of the Adelaide Airport the petitioners pray that no action will be taken whereby the Department of Civil Aviation will be permitted to extend runways at the Adelaide Airport at its existing location or over other adjacent land. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Why is it necessary to leave Australian troops in the combat zone in South Vietnam when the Government has announced the intention of withdrawal from South Vietnam by the end of the year. 
Why is it necessary to continue sending troops to Vietnam, and are these troops volunteers. 
Will the Minister give an assurance that Australian troops at present in South Vietnam will be engaged in non-combatant duties in future. 
It is necessary for elements of the Australian Task Force to remain in a local defence role while operational responsibilities in Phuoc Tuy. are being adjusted in accordance with agreed plans between Australian, Vietnamese and United States authorities. 
Every effort is being made to minimisethe number of required replacements in Vietnam over the period of the withdrawal by intra-theatre postings and extended periods  of  service wherever this is possible. It is necessary, however, to send a limited number  of  personnel  to  replace essential postings such as those involving key tasks or specialist skills. The need to meet National Service discharge dates also requires replacements in the theatre. Both regular and National Service personnel are posted to Vietnam in the normal course of their duties. National Service personnel need not now proceed to Vietnam if that is their wish. 
Australian forces will be required to undertake the local defence of their own bases until final withdrawal. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Works. Is it a fact that the completion date for the Waymouth Telephone Exchange which his Department is erecting under contract in Adelaide for the Australian Post Office has had to be extended because of delays resulting from industrial actions on the project? If this is so, can the Minister now inform me when he expects this building to be ready for occupation? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Primary and Pre-schools at Bradshaw (Alice Springs) and Nakara (Darwin), Northern Territory. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, respectfully sheweth: 
That being concerned with the environment of Adelaide in the Stale of South Australia and the growing noise nuisance of the Adelaide Airport the petitioners pray that no action will be taken whereby the Department of Civil Aviation will be permitted to extend runways at the Adelaide Airport at its existing location or over other adjacent land. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. I refer to the proposed central sterilising complex to serve Canberra Hospital. Can the Minister say, first, whether this is the first central sterilising unit planned in Australia? Secondly, are such schemes working in other countries and, if so, are they satisfactory to all concerned, particularly the medical profession? Thirdly, is there any substance in the Press statement today suggesting that the Australian Capital Territory branch of the Australian Medical Association is opposed to this proposal? 
I have had the advantage only of seeing the article which appeared in the Press. But I have had the matter processed, and somewhere among my multitude of documents here which cover some 7 Departments is some information in relation to the question posed by the honourable senator. I would hope to be able to give him, before question time has ended, further information in response to his question. I have not been informed officially of the views mentioned by the honourable senator, but my attention has been drawn already to what was said in the Press communication. 
Can the Minister for Health inform me whether he has had sufficient time to collect his thoughts regarding my question about the central sterilising unit for the proposed Australian Capital Territory central hospital services complex? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONMr  President,  my thoughts are set out, as it were, on a piece of paper which I knew I had somewhere. The proposed central sterilising unit in the proposed Australian Capital Territory central hospital services complex will be the first of its kind in Australia. One of the major hospitals in Sydney operates a central sterilising service for a group of hospitals in relation to sterile supplies for theatre and wards such as swabs, dressings etc., but not in regard to instruments. The central services proposed for the Australian Capital Territory will provide for instruments as well as other ward and theatre supplies. 
The honourable senator also asked whether such schemes are working in other countries and, if so, whether they are satisfactory to all concerned, particularly to medical practitioners. The answer to that is, yes. The concept of central sterilisation of instruments and other ward and theatre supplies is well established overseas. A number of such establishments have been inspected by Commonwealth officers as part of investigations concerning the proper development of this proposal. From inquiries made by these officers it is apparent that sterilisation services of this type are working to the satisfaction of the medical practitioner overseas. 
Thirdly, the honourable senator asked whether there was any substance in an article in the 'Canberra Times' which said that the Australian Capital Territory branch of the Australian Medical Association opposed the proposal. The only information that I have in this regard is a letter which, I understand, the Australian Capital Territory Medical Association wrote to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. In this letter the branch apparently said nothing by way of actual opposition to the proposal but expressed some concern about what would happen in the event of a break-down of the central unit. In fact, emergency standby capacity will be available at each hospital particularly in relation to operating theatres. That is standard practice. The proposal to establish this unit is in accordance with the Llewellyn-Davies report on the future development of health services in the Australian Capital Territory and has been explained in detail to representatives of the Australian Capital Territory branch of the Australian Medical Association. My officers are available at any time to discuss any specific points on which the Association may require further information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What criteria are followed by the Department of National Development when assessing submissions from the States for financial assistance from the National Water Resources Fund? 
Will the Minister provide specific details of all the projects that have been approved in the latest assessment? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport say what progress has been made on the detailed survey of the proposed Tarcoola-AIice Springs railway? Can he inform the Senate when this work will be completed? 
No, I think this is a different question. According to a recent statement I am led to believe that work on this section could be started in 1973. Has the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner made any application for funds to enable this project to commence? 
The Bill before the Senate was devised by the Government supposedly after consultation with representatives of the Australian wool industry. It is designed to give effect to a plan in which the grower will be assured of a minimum price for his wool until at least 1st July 1972. I have had a close look at the Bill. It would seem to me that there are problems which could arise in the future due to oversights in the framing of this legislation. I wish to refer to one or two aspects that give me concern. 
Firstly, I want to raise the matter of the wool content of sheep skins. This aspect has been ignored in the drafting of this Bill. I would ask the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  whether consideration was given to this aspect when the proposal !o give to wool growers an average price of 36c this season for shorn wool was first discussed. I am led to believe that it is anticipated that approximately 36 million sheep and lambs will be slaughtered in 1971-72, compared with a figure of 43 million last year. The expected wool content involved in the skins of these animals, according to figures I have been given, is 192.4 million lb, consisting of 17.2 million lb of fellmongered and dead wool and 175.2 million lb of wool on exported skins. That is, of course, assuming that the sheep skin industry is not disrupted by the wool scheme being applied only to shorn wool. In my opinion if the wool content of sheep skins is not included in the assistance to growers scheme it is inevitable that there will be a tendency to shear all stock before they are slaughtered in order to obtain the subsidy. If this occurs, and I think that there is evidence to suggest that it is in fact happening, the considerable amount of extra wool coming on to the wool market will surely cause a further depression in this area. The end result of that would be an increased involvement of the Government subsidy over and above the amount predicted in the Budget. That, of course, is quite apart from the irreparable damage that could be done to an important industry - the sheep skin export trade. 
I do not think that the average person realises the magnitude of this business in Australia. Even on today's market the Australian sheep skin export industry's earnings would reach in the vicinity of S50m in foreign exchange. That figure would be drastically reduced to the point where many Australian businesses would become uneconomic and would be forced to leave the industry with the resultant unemployment of the several thousand people who are now occupied in this industry. A major proportion of Australian sheep skins are exported to Europe and sold on a cost, insurance, freight and exchange basis which contributes considerably to the Australian economy. As a large percentage of our shorn wool is shipped to Japan while the sheep skins go to the continent, the shearing of sheep skins and the placing of this extra wool on the market could adversely affect the Japanese market by upsetting the supply-demand ratio. Foreign exchange earned on sheep skins depends on the wool content and the leather. Shorn skins carrying a short length of wool of less than 1 inch present an uneconomic proposition from both the handling and export points of view and they would therefore be dumped and lost to our economy. 
If the shearing of all stock occurred before slaughter, the amount of foreign income earned would be based purely on the wool content and this, I believe, would be less than that received on the basis of the whole sheep skin. I have spoken of the effect on the Australian economy in relation to export earnings, but let me point now to some far-reaching internal problems. If the sheep skin trade is not recognised as an integral part of this wool scheme, and obviously it has not been, we will witness the disappearance of country wool and skin depots which form an important adjunct to the economic life of all major country towns throughout Australia. These depots provide an important local service to the grower by handling not only his farm produce but also the skins and hides from sheep and cattle sold to local and export butchers established in country areas. 
One does not have to be very familiar with economics to realise the contribution that is made by these country depots to the local economy. Honourable senators who travel in the outer metropolitan districts are well aware of the part played by the proceeds of sales by skin depots being injected back into the community they serve. Apart from the local service provided to growers and butchers, employment is available in the town for people to man these depots. Further depression would occur in the already bleak outlook of many country towns if these businesses were forced to close due to their inability to service the growers as a result of not being able to participate in the wool scheme through sheep skins as well as through shorn wool. 
Moving now from the country area, I suggest that if sheep skin depots are hampered by non-participation in the wool scheme, well established and equipped export businesses, some of which are more than 160 years old, in the capital cities will find it impossible to remain viable on only the short wool skins that would be available for handling. I understand that the economics of any sheep skin export packing organisation are in handling the average skins available throughout the year. In other words, it is economic to handle skins with, say, 1 inch of wool but uneconomic at present to handle skins with a shorter length of wool. However, due to the establishment of packing houses and their desire to assist the grower, as well as the economy, they handle these uneconomic skins and average out over all types. If ; these organisations are handicapped by She inclusion of the growers in this scheme,  it  is apparent that many may close down, causing further unemployment, and expensive plant may become redundant. This could easily occur and, if it did, many other service industries would suffer. I point out that not the least affected would be the Northbound Australia to Europe Shipping Conference. 
It is surprising to know that sheep skins comprise nearly 25 per cent of the total wool and sheep skin freight to Europe. Obviously a loss of a large proportion of this sheep skin freight would upset freight economies and create a situation in which the rates inevitably would increase. I appreciate that the Minister referred in his second reading speech to the sheep skin industry. He said: 
In my earlier statement reference was made to the exclusion of wool on sheep skins from deficiency payments. In this situation the scheme may provide some inducement for shearing of sleep before slaughter. 
He went on lo say that the situation would be kept under review. However, I feel that it would be disastrous to leave this matter and just see what happens. It is all very well to say that if prices go up all will be well. However, if things go wrong and prices do not go up, but in fact go down - which is happening at present - it will be too late. 
Another matter to which I shall refer briefly is clause 20 (I.) of the Bill in which we find a reference to 'registered broker'. I suggest that this clause could well have been framed differently to include people who are operating as private wool brokers. Clearly the clause suggests that a registered broker is one who conducts auction sales. I believe that it could have been better worded by making reference to the private negotiation broker. If we had realised this earlier we could have written a provision that a person who carries on a business in the course of which he conducts sales on behalf of another person by auction or private negotiation may apply for registration as a registered broker. This clause does not recognise the existence of private treaty brokers. I realise that the Secretary of the Department of the Primary Industry is provided under the Bill with discretionary powers to recognise these people, but I believe that it would have been much simpler if the wording had been changed in the manner that I have suggested. 
I believe that as private treaty brokers have been handling approximately 10 per cent of the Australian wool clip, which would involve about 10,000 growers throughout Australia, and as they have been providing a worthwhile service to producers over a long period, they should have been recognised. I suggest that the Minister should give consideration to extending the provisions of this clause at some time in the future to include private treaty brokers. Some people may say that private treaty brokers could undermine the market, but I do not think there is any weight in this argument. As I have suggested, they are handling only a relatively small amount of the overall clip. As the Bill stands at present, and realising as I said earlier that the Secretary can give his blessing to these people, people in this category would be involved in considerable inconvenience in going through the necessary bookwork and filling in forms that are being devised by the Department for this purpose. 
I point out also that members of the Australian Council of Wool Selling Brokers - in other words, the auction brokers as defined in the Bill - sometimes sell by private negotiation due to the fact that at times wool is passed in at auction and sold at a later date by private negotiation. This wool is not sold by auction but in fact is sold privately, which is especially provided for in the Bill in sub-clause (4.) of clause 4. In my view this indicates clearly that the auction brokers have received exceptional treatment. When selling by private treaty, growers are generally paid on delivery to the buyer's store, which attracts an on-farm price deficiency payment without regard to handling costs. In my view the private treaty merchants have a case for at least part of their handling costs to be considered in assessing the deficiency payment and I ask the Minister to give this further consideration as it is obvious that growers operating under this method could be penalised. I am aware that these growers receive prompt payment for their wool and that under the auction system it can be several months before payment is made, but I believe that the facility of almost immediate payment, thereby enabling farmers to have use of this money, is not sufficient to offset the penalty of completely disregarding handling costs. 
Much has been said over recent years about the plight of some sections of rural industry. The Government, in good faith, has always acted in full consultation with the various bodies throughout rural industry in legislating for their problems, and it is fair to say that such a policy of consultation should continue. However, I have received from growers many comments concerning the number of grower organisations which do not always represent consistently the views of the producer. Quite often they seem to have different answers to similar problems. I have also had specific representations regarding the need to inquire into the management structure of the wool industry. The most prominent representations came from  Mr David  Cowell, the immediate past  president  of the Stock Owners Association of South Australia. He advocates the engagement by the Government of a management consultant firm to investigate and report on the activities and structure of the Australian Wool Board and related wool industry organisations. The wisdom of that suggestion was apparently borne out by  Sir Norman  Giles,  chairman  of Elder Smith Goldsborough Mort Ltd, who said in his address to shareholders in Adelaide on Tuesday: 
One could hardly blame the Federal Government for being misguided during the year concerning the wool industry, for the various farmer groups were unorganised and dissident among themselves. The past year has seen the Federal Government maintain its policy of waiting for growers to decide what the wool industry needed, rather than imposing solutions from above. This had resulted in a great division among  growers. 

 Mr Cowell maintains that the appointment of an outside consultant would be a sure way to receive an unbiased report. He believes that an internal inquiry could be clouded by vested interests. He states that as an urgent priority the industry needs to tackle the problem of its unco-ordinated and fragmented leadership and to restore confidence to the decision making procedures of the industry. He informed me that he had spoken to leaders of the industry who agree that the industry's decision making procedures must be changed. 
Another concerned and informed observer has reported to me that he shares  Mr Cowell's  concern and supports his suggestion to establish a group of reputable outside consultants to consider the problem with the necessary objectivity and independence of judgment to guide the industry off its present course. In the immediate future growers need financial assistance in fairly large amounts and it is vital that viable businesses should be provided with long term . and low interest assistance to enable them to survive. Over the longer period ahead they will need to find a way to influence both costs and prices received in such a way that profitability can be recovered by the majority. 

 Mr Cowell's proposal that outside consultants be used to identify the main problems and to suggest practical solutions seems to me to be the right course to follow. The best consultants achieve results quickly and are ruthlessly objective. Ruthless objectivity, free from sectional discrimination, is precisely what the growers need today and it is up to the Government to give it to them. I have tried to be constructive in this speech. I ask the Minister to bear in mind what I have said about particular matters concerned with sheep skins and private treaty brokers and I hope that he will take steps to protect the industries I have mentioned, particularly if it is found necessary to extend this scheme beyond the period provided for in the measure. 1 was gratified that  Mr Sinclair,  the Minister for Primary Industry, acknowledged in correspondence the merit of a broader type of inquiry, having in mind what  Mr Cowell  had said. I respectfully suggest that he act urgently in this direction proceeding always, of course, in consultation with the industry. With the requests I have made, I support the Bill. 
Has the Minister for Health noticed the reports of the most recent public relations extravaganza performed by the Leader of the Opposition in Adelaide when he outlined the policy of the Australian Labor Party concerning national health? Can the Minister give an estimate of the approximate cost of these proposals, and state whether it is possible to provide free hospitalisation and a free dental scheme for school children and to establish one health commission to replace the existing health funds, at a cost per taxpayer of 1.3 per cent of taxable income? 
I think the honourable senator anticipated that I would have made an examination of this matter. I read in the newspaper some reference to 'withering on the vine'. That rather reminded me of what Keats once said. I will not presume to quote him here, but he made a reference to 'withering', too.  His  first lines were: 'Oh what can ail thee, knight-at-arms, alone and palely loitering?' I invite everybody to examine the rest of the verse. The report of the Opposition's proposal in the health field certainly has received my attention, mainly on account of the very point raised by the honourable senator. I refer to the very heavy expenditure involved in the proposals. Some costing has been undertaken, at short notice, in relation to the Opposition's proposal to increase the levy on taxable income to 1.3S per cent and to raise the level of exemption of low income families to $1,730 per annum. Honourable senators will be aware that Commonwealth expenditure on medical and hospital benefits now approximates $250m per annum. Preliminary cost estimates of the Opposition's revised proposals indicate that they would involve expenditure of the order of $420m per annum, an increase of Si 68m over current expenditure. I should stress that these preliminary cost estimates relate only  -  I repeat only' - to medical and hospital benefits. 
The various proposals of the Opposition cover a wide range of other health matters and consequently involve considerable additional expenditure apart from the Si 68m per annum which I have mentioned already. For example,  Senator Jessop  has referred to the Opposition's proposal in relation to dental health, as presented by  Dr R.  T. Gun. I need point out only that  Dr Gun's  own estimate of the cost of implementing these proposals - an estimate which has every indication of some unreliability - is not less than S45m per annum, apart from very considerable capital expenditure which would be involved in them. I should mention another Opposition proposal which has just been announced. I refer to the listing of oral contraceptives as pharmaceutical benefits. This may appear to be a relatively incidental item, but I feel sure that honourable senators will see it in another light when I say that provisional cost estimates of this proposal alone are of the order of $26m to $36m per annum, based on current factors available to information. 
I have mentioned only 3 items. I could mention others, such as free pharmaceutical benefits, regionalisation of hospitals on a national basis, establishment of a national hospitals commission and so on, and have them costed. Not taking into account these other items, but taking into account the 3 that I have mentioned, I have indicated that estimated additional Commonwealth expenditure totalling $239m to $249m per annum is involved. Clearly this would constitute a very heavy burden on the Australian taxpayer. All in all the Opposition's proposals in the health field involve costs which place them far beyond the bounds of practicability. 
The Government recognises these problems and keeps a constant watch to minimise costs. As  Senator Mulvihill  has suggested, when  Mr Gorton  was Prime Minister he recognised that such problems arise. In fact, he took action to protect the interests of various industries. 
I was about to refer to what  Senator Cant  had said.  Senator Webster  is quite right.  Senator Cant  referred specifically to Armco and the Angela mining leases in Western Australia but he did not mention the help given by the Tonkin Government at that time. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. 1 have received an inquiry from an export merchant who is currently interested in exporting raw wool. Can the Minister say whether this merchant would be able to purchase wool from the accumulating stockpile of the Australian Wool Commission? If so, how would a price be established? Would a minimum quantity purchase be required? 

 - Senator Gair has referred to another area in which the Government took action to see that a takeover bid was nullified. Let us have a look at the record. The Minister for Civil Aviation referred to measures that have been taken and I am glad to see that the Opposition has recognised that some action has been taken in these matters. I would like now to deal with some points raised by  Senator Cant  in his speech. If I remember correctly, he implied that no tax was paid by the Hamersley group. He must have had amnesia at that stage. Obviously he has forgotten that the group in 1970 paid to the Western Australian Government royalties totalling $7.6m. Progressively to that stage the Western Australian Government had received from Hamersley $22m. 
The interjections coming from honourable senators opposite indicate that they are a little sensitive about this matter. Otherwise they would not be reacting so violently, lt is all very well to accuse overseas companies in this regard but it is another matter when the Opposition is reminded of the tremendous benefits that accrue from enterprises in various parts of Australia. 
That is quite right. The Western Australian Labor Government encouraged the Armco people to take over that area so that honourable senators opposite are skating on thin ice in directing criticism at overseas investment in Australia.  Senator Murphy  said that overseas interests would take over the hotel. It is quite ironical that the Labor Premier of South Australia has made 2 or 3 overseas trips with the object of attracting industries to South Australia. I encourage his efforts in that regard because, as  Senator Bishop  said earlier, certain companies are moving out of South Australia. I therefore think it is fair to commend the South Australian Premier for seeking to attract overseas companies to that State. I doubt that they will come, because they realise the disadvantages of working under a Labor administration. 
The Labor Premier of South Australia has suggested that he would welcome Asian capital in order to build an international hotel in Victoria Square, Adelaide. He has gone further and offered the particular site, which is worth about Sim, and has dangled an additional carrot by suggesting that State land tax would be waived in respect of the enterprise. It is almost incredible and one can appreciate the agitation of other hoteliers in South Australia who have been denied that particular incentive. It seems 10 me to point very strongly towards the insincerity and the double standards of members of the Opposition, particularly in their attitude to this debate. I commend the Democratic Labor Party for bringing this matter forward. 
The debate on the matter of urgency raised by  Senator Byrne  is of great interest to many people in Australia. It is a subject that is very dear to the hearts of the people who have found employment in Australia as a result of overseas investment being made in this country. I think that the way the motion has been phrased gives us very little time to do real justice to the important matter before the House. In any event, I would like to refer to one or two advantages of investment capital coming to Australia and re-emphasise some of the actions that the Government has taken in the encouragement of Australian equity in public companies that are. in fact, sponsored by nonAustralian interests. 
The degree of overseas ownership of Australian companies varies. We must pay regard to whether the overseas share is measured in terms of profits, production assets or in some other way, so that when we are discussing this matter we must do so in broad terms. Perhaps the easiest way to illustrate this is to look at the proportion of total company profits, after tax, payable to overseas investors. For this purpose I would like to refer to the dividends and profits payable overseas during the period from1960 to 1970. 
In 1960-61, the total company income, after tax, was$835m. Of this amount, $233m was payable overseas, representing 27.9 per cent. This percentage fluctuated during the period I am referring to, the lowest figure being 22.5 per cent in 1964- 65, or $271m out of a total income of $ 1,205m. In 1969-70,$548m was paid to overseas interests, the total company income in that year being$ 1,669m which, expressed in a percentage form, is 32.8 per cent. This represented an increase of 4.9 per cent in 10 years. The trend in 1970-71 would appear to be at the same level. These figures relate to the Australian corporate section.  Senator Cotton  mentioned this in his speech earlier. Therefore, due to the predominance of Australian ownership in sole traders and partnerships, the proportion of overseas ownership in Australian business as a whole would be substantially lower. 
The main area of concern seems to be the mining industry. In the mining industry, overseas ownership and control are greatest in the metal mining sector, but the increase has been most rapid in the fuel mining section. Nevertheless, the great majority of mining enterprises whether operated by Australian companies, overseas companies with Australian equity participation or joint ventures between Australia and overseas companies are, in fact, managed by Australians. The fact that overseas companies have concentrated their interests in specific areas such as the Northern Territory, Western Australia and Queensland - again, this applies particularly to the mining industry - has attracted much more attention than if those interests were spread evenly throughout the country. But we cannot deny that without this capital many of these enterprises would never have got off the ground. 
I can think of a classic example that occurred in the Gove area. I visited there in late 1967 when a bauxite industry was being developed. It was then in its formative stages. I made a point of asking company representatives there what the Australian equity would be in the enterprise. They told me that they were hoping to attract 50 per cent Australian equity in the project. I returned there in July this year and was surprised to see a bauxite mine in almost full operation and an alumina plant commencing production. I asked the same question about Australian equity and company representatives told me that the enterprise had not attracted 50 per cent Australian equity. The Government in  its  wisdom said: 'Righto. If you cannot get 50 per cent Australian equity in the project, we will allow you to attract capital from elsewhere'. The result was that the company had to attract an additional 20 per cent capital from overseas. A very healthy alumina industry is developing there, providing employment opportunities for hundreds of people. 1 also asked company representatives about the effect on the Aborigines. I was interested to learn that the company is paying several hundred thousand dollars into an Aboriginal trust fund in the area. I think it is important to re-emphasise that although overseas capital has provided only 12 per cent of the total investment funds in the past decade, that money has helped us immensely. I think the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  referred to that aspect in his speech, and also the effect it has had in causing our domestic savings to rise to a high level.  Senator Sim  mentioned the important point that overseas investment in Australia gives us access to technological and managerial expertise that would not otherwise be available. 
Is the Minister for Health aware that South Australian Youth Clubs Incorporated is the headquarters for 70 open youth clubs which operate in that State and cater for 12,000 young people? Does he know that these clubs operate autonomously and provide a wide variety of activities ranging from gymnastics to field sports and camping to handicrafts, emphasising the development of skills in all these areas? Is he aware also that the association is facing a deficit of $11,000 for the current year? Will he give urgent consideration to providing additional finance, either through the National Fitness Council or in some other way, to assist not only this organisation which is in a desperate plight but also other similar institutions throughout Australia that are providing such worthwhile healthy facilities for the youth of Australia? 
Is the Minister  representing the Prime Minister able to confirm that Mainland China has recently conducted nuclear tests? Can the Minister say whether the Australian Labor Party has raised any protest concerning this matter? If not, is the Minister able to say why the Australian Labor Partyraised protests against similar tests carried outby the French? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that Commonwealth Industrial Gases Ltd has conducted in New South Wales and South Australia successful nitrogen technology trials which have shown that apples can be long term stored without deterioration, and that this permits the grower to store surplus fruit over an extended period? As the benefits to be derived from the application of this technique 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service tell me how many married women whose husbands are fully employed are registered with the Department of Labour and National Service as requiring employment? 
5 ask the Minister for Health: ls it a fact that people who have marihuana in their possession are in breach of the law? Has the Minister seen a newspaper report alleging that a member of the Australian Labor Party who is in another place held a :pot' smoking party in his home? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a reported statement indicating that some members of the ALP  advocate the legalising of 'pot' smoking.' ls the Minister table to say whether the use of this so-called soft drug would lead to experimentation with more dangerous narcotics? 
Can the Minister for Health say when pharmacists last received an increase in dispensing fees for prescriptions dispensed under the national health scheme? In view of the considerable increase in the earnings in recent times of other sections of the community, will the Minister give consideration to a review of the fees payable by the Commonwealth to pharmacists under the National Health Act? 
 In  accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act  1969, I  present the report relating to the following proposed work. 
Stage 2 Development Works at HMAS Nirimba, Quakers Hill, New South Wales. 
Is the Minister for Health aware that people who suffer from alopecia caused by certain medical conditions are unable to claim, as a tax deduction, the considerable expense incurred in the provision of a wig? Will the Minister consult the Treasurer in order to classify wigs as medical appliances in cases where the alopecia can be certified by a medical practitioner as being the result of an illness? I note  Senator Prowse's  interest in this matter. 
We are getting into a dangerous area here. I can assure honourable senators that there is nothing unreal about my head in terms of hair. This question is clearly one to be referred to my Department. Representations have been made to me in relation to this matter and they are being processed and considered. If I am in a position to make a comment to the honourable senator during the recess I will certainly communicate with him and will subsequently have that information incorporated in Hansard. I can assure the honourable senator that the view he has expressed has been put to me and is currently under examination. 
! UNEMPLOYMENT 
1 rise to support the measures introduced by the Government to provide some stabilisation to the dried vine fruits industry for the next 5 years. I rise particularly to support my colleagues from South Australia on this side of the chamber. I rise also to answer, to a degree, the attacks made by  Senator McLaren  in his extraordinary speech a few minutes ago. I suppose that we might have expected such an attack from  Senator McLaren,  because in his maiden speech he used the privilege of this chamber and the privilege of his maiden speech to criticise the Government fairly strongly. I believe that this was a breach of privilege in regard to a maiden speech. So we are not surprised that he should try to cast aspersions on the efforts of members from South Australia in regard to the wine excise. He also chose to criticise our colleague in another place, the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  This is a most unfair criticism and it was probably brought on by jealousy on the part of the honourable senator. If he were in the same position, his Party would not allow him to act as  Mr Giles  acted. At least this demonstrates the privilege of members on this side of the House of taking some action against Government policies with which they do not agree. To say that  Senator Laucke  has done nothing about this position is quite extraordinary. 
The honourable senator does not know how many moves  Senator Laucke  has made to have this tax lifted. As a matter of fact, in Adelaide earlier this year,  Senator Laucke  and  Mr Giles  led a deputation to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  composed of senators from South Australia on this side of the Chamber. On that occasion, he personally put this matter to the Prime Minister, with the full support of my colleagues from South Australia. He received an undertaking from the Prime Minister that he would carefully watch the position and if it could be shown that serious damage was being done to the industry, he would be prepared to have another look at the matter. I am quite sure that  Senator Laucke  is watching this matter with even greater intensity than my colleague  Senator McLaren;  he is watching it very carefully. We will see strong evidence of his actions in this matter early next year when we see the figures that are expected to be provided by the industry. Whatever future action that Sen-: tor Laucke cares to take in this matter he will have the full support of myself, and, I am sure, my colleagues from South Australia. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Health. Will the Minister inform me whether there is a limit to the accumulated revenue allowable to health funds registered under the National Health Act? If so, what happens when the amount exceeds that limit? Will he also inform me whether it is possible for a particular fund to transfer any excess from one State branch to another? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am grateful to the honourable senator for asking me that question. I did allude to one aspect of this matter m response to a question asked earlier of me. The first part of the question asked by  Senator Jessop  is whether there is a limit on the accumulated revenue allowable to health funds. I say in response to that: Yes, it has been decided that what are known as the free reserves of registered organisations should be set at a level equivalent to 3 months' contribution income for the larger funds. That is the point I made earlier in reply to a question asked by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. With the smaller funds, more flexibility is allowed and the free reserves may be permitted to exceed that level in certain appropriate circumstances. Sometimes it may he wise to allow them to go beyond the 3 months concept. 
The second part of the honourable senator's question concerns what happens when the amount exceeds the limit. The contribution, rates which were set at the commencement of the restricted medical benefits scheme in 1970 and the national benefits scheme in 1971 were designed to achieve gradually the desired levels of reserves. Consequently the free reserves of individual funds at the present time are in the process of being accumulated or depleted as the case may be to reach the appropriate levels. In the future, contribution rates generally will be approved on the basis that they are sufficient to maintain free reserves at a level of 3 months' contribution income, depending on the size of the fund. 
The third part of the honourable senator's question, which requires a more lengthy answer, relates to whether it is possible for a particular fund to transfer any excess from one State branch to another. Under the National Health Act there are 2 categories of funds, namely, the restricted membership funds and what are known as the other funds. The first category - the restricted membership funds - generally comprise the smaller industrialtype organisation with employees in a number of States. These funds are registered to operate in more than one State, but the administration and the financial system of each of these funds is centralised in one State. The question of transferring reserves from one State to another therefore does not arise. The second category generally comprises the larger funds such as the Blue Cross and friendly society funds. The registration of these funds is on the basis of completely separate funds being maintained in respect of each State in which registration has been granted. The transfer of any of a fund's reserves from one State to another is not permitted. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. I ask: Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement attributed to the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions in which he threatened to boycott the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission if the Commonwealth openly backed employers in cases before the Commission? Further, what is the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government in instances such as the recent State Electricity Commission dispute in Victoria where the effects could be of national significance? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral seen a Press statement attributed to the Leader of the Opposition in another place in which he is reported to have said that draft dodging is not a crime? Can the Minister inform me whether this statement is based on legal fact? 
 I rise to speak against this reference because, as I mentioned in my maiden speech in this chamber, 1 believe that we should bear in mind very carefully that we, as senators, have to act responsibly in this chamber, we have to face up to our responsibility to our electorate and we have to find time to fulfil our new-found responsibility towards the committee system. In my opinion the committee system has focused a lot of attention on the Senate. Therefore we should make sure that the references that are made to the committees have sufficient merit - perhaps I should not use the word 'merit' because there is merit in all the references that are put before us - to warrant the inroads that they make into the limited time available to senators to carry out other aspects of their work. 

 Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson has referred already to the fact that committee references take precedence over government business. This in itself appears to me to be an anomaly that should be looked at in the future because I do not think it is fair that government business should be delayed to any great extent by these references. It might be necessary for the Senate to review its thinking on this matter. Perhaps at some future time it might feel disposed to grant this precedence on one day in the sitting week. I cannot help but note that other references that have been put before committees seem to be quite unwieldy and no doubt will be very time consuming. It occurs to me also that many of the references - in fact most of them - come from the Opposition side. Although I believe that most of them have great merit, some of them seem to be motivated by political interests. I must say, to follow up that statement, that the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare on which I am serving has treated the references to it in a non-party political way. But some of the references on the notice paper seem to indicate that the motivation behind them could be political. If that is the case, it would tend to lead me to believe that some wastage of time could be occurring because of that. 
I would like to mention one matter that has been referred to the Committee that we are considering at the moment, lt is one which, I think, was referred very fairly at the instigation of  Senator Davidson.  I am sure that it would have the full support of  Senator Negus,  who only recently made reference to the matter in this place. It reads: 
The effects of  Estate  and like duties on the public revenues and the economic circumstances of individuals and communities, and the social consequences of such duties. 
That reference will demand a considerable amount of time of the honourable senators on this Committee. I hope that the report, when it is presented, will have some influence on the Government in effecting changes in this area. 
There is another reference that ought to be looked at, and that is the introduction of a national superannuation scheme. That matter has been referred to the Health and Welfare Committee. At present that Committee is engaged in studying all aspects of repatriation and we would hope that a report could be presented in this place within the next 6 months. But, looking at the subject matter of the next reference, I would not be surprised if the Government made some radical changes with regard to social services which could render that reference unnecessary. All these matters have to be considered. 
I would like to refer to what  Senator Byrne  has said and also to direct the attention of the Senate to  Senator Willesee's  interest in the Postmaster-General's Department. It would appear that most of what  Senator Willesee  said related to that Department and that he has preconceived ideas about what should happen in this area, namely, that the Department's method of operation should be changed and that it should become a statutory body. I believe that this matter is beyond the scope of the competence of the Finance and Government Operations Committee to decide.  Senator Byrne  pointed out fairly clearly the confusion that obviously exists in the minds of members of the Opposition.  Senator Murphy  has suggested that this matter be referred to a select committee. This is a classic example of how  Senator Murphy  gets carried away wilh his references. I think it is fair to read it out at this time: 
That a select committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon the structure, recruitment and management of the Commonwealth Public Service and the citizen and industrial rights of its members. 
That goes a little beyond the reference proposed by  Senator Willesee.  But  Senator Murphy's  proposal goes further and says: 
That the Committee consist of 6 senators, 3 to be appointed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, 2 to be appointed by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, and 1 to be appointed by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
I am sorry; I over-reached myself in relation to the terms of reference.  Senator Murphy  goes into more detail- 
Obviously there is confusion in  Senator Willesee's  mind.  Senator Murphy  has gone a little further than he has. He has stopped at the question of the management of the Public Service. 1 believe that that is a very good reason why the Senate should reject his proposal. Had he come up with a narrower reference which would have taken the Committee less than 18 months or 2 years to deal with, we may have been more amenable to his suggestion. Although I recognise the motive behind his motion - no doubt he has good reasons for putting it before the Senate - I believe that it is unwieldy and would be far too time consuming, particularly in the year ahead. I have no doubt that members of the. Labor Party will be anxious to get out into the electorate in an endeavour to convince the people that they have a case to put to them. That is a very difficult task because in recent weeks we have seen how the credibility of the leadership has bean put in very grave doubt. With that nonpolitical finish to my speech, I oppose the motion. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, relates to the South Australian Labor Government's interest or lack of interest in the State's future water supply. Is the Minister aware that the Government senators representing South Australia and Liberal Country League Opposition members of the State Parliament waited upon the Prime Minister and the Minister for National Development as long ago as 
October last year concerning the Commonwealth Government's rejection of a request from the State Government for a grant from the National Water Resources Fund to enable the completion of the KimbaPolda pipeline? Is he also aware that, as a result of new evidence with regard to stocking patterns in that area presented by the deputation, the Minister agreed to consider a further application by the State Government? Is the Minister able to say whether the Commonwealth Government has received an updated submission from the State Government? If so, will he do all he can to get his colleague to expedite the Commonwealth Government's decision on the matter? 
 My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Actually, the first part of it relates to his portfolio of Health and the other part is asked of him in his capacity as Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister noted that  Dr Fowler,  the man who first isolated the acanthamoeba responsible for meningitis, is reported to have stated that this organism exists in all Australian water supplies but that it is not likely to multiply to dangerous proportions except under hot conditions such as in Port Augusta, South Australia, where the surface water pipeline is sometimes subjected to intense sun temperatures? I ask the Minister whether his Department will take steps to ensure that water supplies in the Northern Territory are not a danger to public health? Secondly, as it appears inevitable due to this problem that the South Australian Government will have to provide filtration for water supplies from the River Murray at an estimated cost of between $35 and $40m will the Minister give consideration to recommending to the Commonwealth Government that a special grant or subsidy be provided to assist the State in this expenditure? 
In any event the provision of filtration plants for water supplies for Adelaide, from whatever source, is a matter for decision by the South Australian Government. Finance for that work would primarily be within the responsibility of the State Government. Putting aside undetermined questions, I think I said in response to a question on Tuesday that if a Premier of a State believes that his State is suffering from some emergency, disaster, calamity or other situation which is beyond the resources of his State but is within the sovereignty of the State, there is a pipeline to the Prime Minister. He can raise the matter with the Prime Minister. This course has been followed frequently. We recall circumstances in Queensland and Tasmania in contemporary times. It seems to me that that is the procedure that should be adopted. There are of course some elements in the question relating to water, the amoeba in it, and the effects of heat on water pipelines which have to be examined urgently and currently. 
I wish to contribute to this debate to only a very minor degree. First of all, I deplore the attack that was made on  Senator Greenwood  by  Senator James  McClelland. 
I hope that in all decency he will do so. I voted against this proposition, and I for one do not believe that we lake these actions lightly. 1 do not believe that we should take the responsibility of depriving someone of life on this planet: but I think there are one or two areas that warrant the retention of this penalty. I reflect on the comments made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  when he voiced that opinion. I rise to support what he said. There are certain occasions on which this penalty should be imposed. I think of a case in which a person rapes a young child and then disposes of her at the end of that depraved act. I think also of the headlines in the newspapers today which refer to a person who puts a bomb on an aircraft and jeopardises the lives of many people. 1 believe thai in' those areas we should take some action to make sure that there is a deterrent within thi; laws of this country. Tn all sincerity I believe that in most of these cases there is a way in which the death penalty can be obviated. But I rise at this stage really , in indignation at the way in which  Senator James  McClelland attacked  Senator Greenwood. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Minister received a report from the Commissioner of Commonwealth Railways following a conference, held at Port Pirie in February 1972, which was called to consider the transfer of Commonwealth Railways crews to Port Augusta? If so, will he furnish details of the report, together with the Minister's comments on this matter? 
Can the Attorney- 
General inform the Senate whether he has had any indication, following the Australian Labor Party Federal Executive meeting in Adelaide last week, as to the official ALP attitude towards continuing support for the draft resisting ALP candidate,  Mr Johnston? 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. Has the Minister seen the statement attributed to the former Leader of the Australian Labor Party Opposition and former Labor Minister for Immigration,  Mr Calwell,  in which he is alleged to have said that there are some people in the Labor Party today who are quite prepared to allow 27,000 coloured migrants into Australia each year? Will the Minister say whether there is any substance in his prophesy that in time this policy would jeopardise the jobs of Australian born people and Aborigines? 
I direct my question to you,  Mr President.  I am anxious to clear my mind with regard to what is considered appropriate dress for visitors to your gallery in this chamber. I ask this question following the refusal to permit a South Australian lady to sit in the Speaker's Gallery in the House of Representatives during the last week of sitting although she was attired in a well tailored slacksuit. Will you give the Senate your ruling for the guidance of honourable senators? What is the responsibility of honourable senators with regard to advice to their guests, who wish to avail themselves of the hospitality of your gallery, concerning the mode of dress? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral received a letter from the Australian Federation of Police Associations and Unions? Is the Attorney-General aware of the motion which was passed 'by the Federal Council of that organisation during the latter part of last year which reads: 
That this conference expresses alarm at the growing tendency of certain sections of the community who resort to actions of organised violence and lawlessness at demonstrations in the streets and other places throughout Australia and that this motion be brought to the attention of  all  members of Parliament throughout Australia. 
Is the Minister also aware that the Police Department of South Australia has experienced difficulty in maintaining its cadet training programme, and that recruiting difficulties persist in spite of the efforts of the various police associations to improve wages and conditions of members of the police force? Will the Attorney-General give sympathetic consideration to the requests, which I believe are reasonable, for assistance to overcome the difficulties particularly by making direct and substantial grants to the States for the improvement and maintenance of efficient police forces in Australia? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Has he read the reported statement by the Leader of the Opposition in another place,  Mr Whitlam,  when in Ade laide attending the unusually quiet Australian Labor Party Federal Executive meeting, that Labor would try very hard - I believe this is significant enough to repeat - labor would try very hard - to raise a volunteer army and do away with conscription if it won the Federal election? Is it a fact that the present Government tried very hard to maintain Australia's armed forces by voluntary means? Is it also a fact that this effort failed in spite of increased pay and improved conditions and that in order to meet Service requirements the Government was obliged to introduce national service. 
 1 feel that I have to rise, as my name was taken in vain by  Senator McLaren  while I was in my office. I can understand the sensitivity with which he spoke because it is quite obvious to me that he resents the fact that on this side of the chamber there are some people who are pointing to significant weaknesses in the Australian Labor Party. We on this side of the chamber believe that we have an obligation to the people of Australia to point out just how many weaknesses there happen (o be in the Opposition Party.  (Opposition senators interjecting) - 

 - Mr President, if  I  may have your protection against the manifestations of the obvious sensitivity of the Opposition side, I wish to make this point: Members of the Labor Party are rejoicing in the fact that the Liberal and Country League in South Australia has a minor internal problem and that the public media have chosen to give headlines to it. No doubt members of the Opposition have been very grateful for this because it has effectively directed the attention of the Press away from the inadequacies and ineffectiveness of their Party's Federal Executive meeting in Adelaide. Like  Senator Young,  I feel that it is our responsibility to demand that some declaration come from members of the Labor Party with regard to their condoning of law breaking in Australia and their condoning and support of a draft resisting ALP candidate. This type of issue has been effectively evaded, and I believe that I have  a  responsibility to bring these things out. Another point is that members of the Labor Party have side-stepped quite effectively the embarrassment they are experiencing with regard to a preselection in New South Wales. (Opposition senators interjecting) - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Cant)  - Order! I ask honourable senators to give  Senator Jessop,  who has the call, a fair go. 
-I  thank you for your protection,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  Recently we heard a classic speech from  Senator McLaren  in which he endeavoured to gain political capital by mentioning the position of Steele Hall in South Australia. He is seeking to gain political capital out of a situation which, in fact, is very similar in every way to the practices employed in the Australian Labor Party. I will continue to do my duty to the Australian people and to point out the weaknesses in the Opposition. If question time happens to be the medium to do that, I shall continue the practice of asking questions. 
Is the Minister for Civil Aviation aware of the strong representations being made by employees of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd to honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives urging the Government to intervene in the takeover bid by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd? Will he consider these representations as urgent and take action to examine the requests of these people? 
I wholeheartedly support the Bill before the Senate. I think the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Department deserve the highest praise and congratulations on what I consider to be a most comprehensive Bill. They deserve full credit for the time that they have spent in preparing it. I think I should remind the Senate that this Bill whose purpose is to establish a Commonwealth Teaching Service is in fact virtually establishing an employing authority. The Bill provides for a Commissioner to be appointed.  His  function in the words of clause 16(1.) is 'to make persons available for the performance of teaching duties ia 
Commonwealth schools and other schools in accordance with this section'. Sub-clause  (8.)  of clause  16  provides: 
The Commissioner has power to do all things necessary or convenient to be done for or in connection with the performance of his function under this section. 
We have heard Opposition members speak on this Bill. We have heard  Senator Wheeldon  make his contribution. He probably made only one comment of real substance and that was with regard to the matter of appointing one Commissioner to deal with this authority.  Senator Wheeldon  made the suggestion that there should be more than one Commissioner - that a Commission should be established and that one of the members of the Commission should be a teacher representing the interests of the Australian Teachers Federation. Speakers from this side of the chamber already have pointed to the fact that this is a relatively small Service - a Service which will comprise between  1,500  and  2,000  members. I think we can draw a comparison here between the Commission which  Senator Wheeldon  proposes and the Public Service Board, which is also an employing authority. It is responsible for employing something like  250,000  people. The Public Service Board consists of  3  people, but upon looking at the Public Service we realise that it is comprised of professional people in various categories yet none of these people on the Public Service Board have any relationship to any professionally qualified people in the Public Service. 

 Senator Wheeldon made reference also to his colleague in another place,  Mr Beazley,  when he was speaking on this Bill. I do not think that very much of substance was contributed by that particular gentleman. We on this side of the chamber do become used to divisions of opinion on various subjects among honourable senators opposite. Two topics readily come to mind - immigration and labour, and national service. But on the subject of education I find that there are not one or two opinions coming from the Australian Labor Party but there are  3.  This was evidenced recently when a measure was introduced into this chamber to provide for additional help to independent schools. On that occasion we found that  3  shades of opinion were expressed. One was advanced by  Mr 
Whitlam, one by  Mr Beazley  and a third interpretation by  Senator Murphy. 
I refer again to the matter of one Commissioner being appointed to deal with this employing authority, the Commonwealth Teaching Service, by dealing with what  Senator McManus  said. He is a highly respected former member of the teaching profession. He has indicated already that if this Service is extended to include a greater number of people then measures can be introduced in the future to increase the number of members on the Commission. The Commissioner also has the responsibility to determine salaries and conditions of employment of teachers, but this is done only with the concurrence of the Public Service Board. I understand that some criticism of this proposal has been lodged by some members of the teaching profession. I would like to remind the Senate that this is usual Commonwealth practice when dealing with statutory authorities outside he Commonwealh Public Service Act. It is usual to have the agreement of the Public Service Board in the determination of these matters. The history of such arrangements dates back to the time when the Honourable J. J. Dedman introduced into the Parliament the Science and Industry Research Bill which concerned in particular the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. I know for a fact that the CSIRO finds no difficulty or has no inhibition with regard to its function because of the fact that the Public Service Board has to concur in determinations concerning that body. 
In setting up the Commonwealth Teaching Service the Government has in mind the desirability of providing a career structure for teachers enabling maximum flexibility in the educational field and facilitating the movement of teachers not only to various education systems within Australia but to positions overseas where they will be able to participate in the educational fields in developing countries thereby increasing their experience in a very tangible way. The Commonwealth Government is in fact establishing for the first time in Australia a teaching service which will allow teachers in that service to move beyond the areas of a particular system. 
Previously in the debate tonight we head good speeches particularly by  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Davidson. Senator Davidson,  who is the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts,  Senator Carrick, Senator James  McClelland, who spoke before me, and their colleagues who are members of that Standing Committee recently brought down a report on the Commonwealth's role in teacher education. I believe that the Commonwealth Government will do well to digest very carefully and take rapid steps to implement the important recommendations that have emerged as a result of this report. 
I think it is fitting at this stage that I should mention the headings of some of the chapters in the report. For example, one heading is 'The Preparation of Teachers'. This subject has been dealt with in very fine detail. Other headings are: The Continued Training and Employment of Teachers', 'The Training of Teachers for non-government Schools', The Training of Pre-School Teachers', The Training of Special Teachers', and The Training of Technical Teachers'. I believe that the last chapter I shall mention - 'Research in Teacher Education' - is one of the most significant in the report. I would like to outline the sub-headings of the recommendations. They cover research of teacher education in Australia, the financing of research, research overseas, education of Aboriginal children and the need for future research. 
I believe that the key to the upgrading of educational standards is effective research. Several years ago the Commonwealth Government took a significant step in this direction by setting up the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Education, which has become known as the Partridge Committee. It is important that the work of this Committee should be greatly expanded. This means that more money will have to be made available. I believe that the Commonwealth ought to give this aspect of the report very careful and sympathetic consideration and provide sufficient money to implement the important recommendations that the Senate Standing Committee has made with respect to research into teacher training. 
My colleagues have dealt pretty effectively with the amendments moved on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. I would like to refer to only one or two measures in the Bill that point to the farreaching effects of it.  Senator Carrick  mentioned the matter of the selection of officers for promotion. He said that the Bill provides that officers will be considered for promotion to vacant positions, firstly, on the basis of relevant efficiency of the officers available for promotion, and in the event of equality of efficiency of 2 or more officers, selection will revert to the relative seniority of these officers. There is another matter that I should mention because it relates, I believe, quite definitely to part (b) of the Opposition's amendment which calls for the heightening of professional standards of teachers. I refer to clause 44 of the Bill, which pays regard to the provision of Commonwealth Teaching Service scholarships. This clause in itself is designed to heighten the professional standards of the teaching profession. 
I believe that is quite right. I believe that everyone will agree on studying the detail of the provisions with regard to Commonwealth Teaching Service scholarships that these are most generous. I have pleasure in supporting the Bill and reject the amendments moved on behalf of the Opposition. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science tell me the number of students currently enrolled at the Australian National University? Can he say how many students were present at the university students association meeting last night at which a motion is reported to have been carried declaring the university campus a sanctuary for those wishing to evade the National Service Act and whether this is a truly representative view of the majority of students attending that instituion? 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, follows upon a previous question put to the Attorney-General by  Senator McManus.  I refer to the improper use of Commonwealth Government funds paid by the universities to student unions and used for the payment of fines or otherwise to assist those who might be in breach of the law. I ask the Minister whether the attention of the Australian Universities Commission can be drawn to this matter so that the individual governing bodies, that is, the councils and senates of the universities, may be invited to give it earnest attention? 
Has the Minister for Health heard reports of the appearance last night of the Australian Labor Party shadow Minister for Health,  Mr Hayden,  on the television programme 'Monday Conference'? Can the Minister say whether  Mr Hayden's  allegations that the Government estimates of the ALP health proposals are inflated and that the Government costing of the existing health scheme reflects a low estimate are correct? 
So far as it is possible to be certain of what the Labor Party's health policy is, I suggest that on television last night  Mr Hayden  made further promises, even though they were only tentative promises in prospect of the Labor Party forming a government, that would add up to a considerable additional amount, almost equal to the sum of $168m to which I referred earlier. For instance, reference was made to oral contraceptives being made available. On any calculation, whether the contraceptives are purchased on a monthly cycle or on some other cycle, the cost of that one item alone would be anything from $26m to $3 6m. He talked about the remission of sales tax on those items. Of course, if the revenue loses that sales tax it is a cost to the revenue, in my humble opinion. 
There was also a reference to the dental scheme. In the language of  Dr Gun,  a representative of the Labor Party, this would cost $45. 5m in a financial year. There was a reference to an additional amount of $65m by way of capital investment which would have to be spent over 3, 4 or 5 years. Then we come to the question of abolition of the patient's contribution for pharmaceutical benefits.  Mr Hayden  was uncertain about this. He did not know whether it was in the Labor Party's policy and he was going to refer the matter to  Mr Whitlam.  That item alone would cost another $50m. In addition to the figure of $168m I mentioned earlier, the further costs rise by at least another $100m, even being very modest about the sums involved. 
This, of course, has no reference to all the other matters raised by  Mr Hayden  on Australian Broadcasting Commission and other stations over a period of 4 or 5 months. He made commitments previously in relation to an Australian hospital commission system about which he has' spoken. He talked also about day hospitals, community health centres and paramedical services, all of which have yet to be costed. I was very modest and was referring to only 2 items when I . responded to  Mr Whitlam  and fixed the figure of SI  68m. In fact the sky is the limit. Then  Mr Hayden  spoke about a fee for service basis arrangement and a salaried service. If this is not the open door to nationalisation of medicine I do not know what is. 
Opposition Senators - Hear, hear! 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government who represents the Minister for Defence. I preface my question, if I may, by stating that it arises as a result of representations made to me by the distraught mother of a Royal Australian Air Force officer who was posted as missing in enemy territory in Vietnam 17 months ago. Is my understanding correct that the North Vietnamese do not provide to the Australian Government the names of prisoners of war? Can the Minister say whether there has been any change in this  attitude by the North Vietnamese about providing the names of prisoners of war held by them since the Australian withdrawal from that area? If not, will the Australian Government renew approaches through the appropriate channels to ascertain the names of any people who may be held by them? Also, can he say what the Australian Government's policy has been in regard to listing the names of North Vietnamese prisoners held by the Australians? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThis is a very human problem, one which some honourable senators on both sides of the chamber would properly appreciate. I am sure everybody appreciates it. My information is that Australia has no diplomatic relations with North Vietnam. The names of prisoners of war captured by the Australian forces have been supplied to the International Committee of the Red Cross which has a complete list. There are no known Australian prisoners of war but 2 RAAF officers are missing. Because of the unavailability of direct contact with North Vietnam we have asked friendly countries with representation in North Vietnam to make inquiries on our behalf about the 2 RAAF officers. So far these inquiries have not produced any information which would indicate that the officers are held as prisoners of war. 
I wish to say at the outset that the Opposition would do well to abandon debating the subject of draft resisting and other matters concerned with the evasion of responsibilities under the National Service Act. The people of Australia and, more importantly, some of the supporters of the Australian Labor Party are waiting for the Opposition - the alternative government of this country - to declare what has happened to the dignity of the Australian Labor Party. Where are the Ben Chifleys of this once respected Party? It is time that they came forward to restore the image of the Australian Labor Party. 
I do not very often take the time of the Senate during an adjournment debate. But I rise this evening because today we were unfortunate enough to witness a blatant waste of the time of the Senate by the Opposition when it raised a matter of urgency directed against the Government. The Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman),  and honourable senators on the Government side, effectively dealt with the matter raised and proved that the charge was ill founded. 
Thank you for your generous ruling. 
 I assure you,  Mr President,  that your justice is recognised and that I will try to walk the right rope with dire care. One would have thought that the abject failure of the Opposition in another place to prove some 3 weeks ago the charge which was the subject of today's urgency motion would have deterred the Opposition in this chamber from introducing the subject for debate. This is clear evidence of the sterility of the Opposition in the Senate when seeking to introduce competent motions on its own initiative. 
The debate proved to be uninteresting to the listening audience. In my view, it registered the complete disregard of the Opposition for the value of using occasion when the proceedings of this chamber are being broadcast to introduce for debate in the Senate subjects of public importance and not duplicating debates on subjects discussed in another place. 
I thank you,  Mr President.  I noticed that  Senator Brown  earlier in the adjournment debate was referring to copious notes also. 
 I will confine myself to my subject. I was referring to the appalling situation today when the Opposition in the Senate introduced a duplicated subject from another place. The guilt of the Opposition in this regard was made quite clear during that debate when  Senator Mulvihill,  realising the failure of the Opposition to arouse interest in the subject matter, moved That the question be now put' before he resumed his seat. 
No  Senator shall  allude to any Debate or proceedings of the same session unless such allusion be relevant to the matter under discussion. 
It is on the basis of the words 'relevant to the matter under discussion' that  Senator Jessop  may proceed; but I warn him again to watch his step. 
I am referring to the valuable broadcasting time of the Senate. I believe that today we have seen it misused. I have also referred to my friend  Senator Mulvihill  who, when he realised just how uninteresting the subject matter was, moved 'That the question be now put', and well he might have because his supporters were not in evidence in the chamber. In fact,I counted only 3 in the chamber at that time. I suggest that the absence of the Australian Labor Party senators during  Senator Mulvihill's  speech - and it was a reasonable contribution from him - displayed the lack of interest of- 
No senator shall allude to any Debate of the current Session in the House of Representatives, or to any Measure impending therein, unless such allusion be relevant to the matter under discussion. 
I am submitting that  Senator Jessop  has stated that this question was debated in the other House quite recently in this session and, therefore, under standing order 416 it cannot be debated in this chamber. 
Did the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science see a television news session last week during which a courageous young lady university student lashed out against the disruptive minority of university students who occupied offices at Latrobe University recently? Is he aware that she complained of the difficulties experienced by herself and the majority of her fellows in concentrating on academic studies due to the noisy demonstrations of the persistent militant minority element in that institution? What power has the Minister for Education and Science to require the university government to maintain a peaceful place suitable for study? 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: - 
That the Postmaster-General's Department, Central Office, policy of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management. Area Mail Centres. Area Puree) Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the Public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office, until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alterations to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee  Act  1969.  I  present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
No. 2 Stores Depot RAAF at Regents Park, New South Wales. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and is supplementary to those asked by Senators Durack and Wood. It concerns the forceful release of a draft resister from the custody of 2 Commonwealth police officers by an anarchistic minority of students at the University of Sydney recently? Will he ensure that the Government will take the strongest possible action to see that those responsible are brought to justice and punished severely in order to discourage such irresponsibility in the future and to demonstrate to the vast majority of law-abiding citizens that pussyfooting with regard to the militant minority on university campuses is at an end? 
 I was getting around to that point. I drew  Senator Cant's  attention last time I spoke on this matter to the fact that  Mr Tonkin,  the Labor Premier of Western Australia, only recently returned from a trip overseas on which he tried to attract Japanese capital into Western Australia in order to develop effectively the natural gas resources of that State. I have heard the figure of $400m mentioned as being required for that development. I certainly agree that we must protect Australian interests in all possible ways but we must also face, up to the hard economic facts of life and realise that Australia needs now and will need for a considerable time an infusion of overseas capital in order that industrial expansion in Australia can continue. 
 I agree; that aspect ought to be considered. I believe that the Government recognises the need to reassess attitudes to overseas investment in Aus tralia. This has been quite clearly demonstrated by the fact that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has instructed the Treasury to produce a White Paper on this very matter to assess the effects on the Australian economy. I hope that White Paper will be presented in the House of Representatives in the not too distant future. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
 Prior to the suspension of the sitting I had referred to the need to look into the matter of foreign investment in Australia. I think we have to look at the matter in 2 ways, firstly, in a developmental sense and, secondly, in the take-over sense, which is what is creating so much concern in Australia at the moment. I do not think one would have to be a master economist to appreciate the need to increase our productivity at this stage when inflation is presenting us with such a problem. For that reason I believe that we must not disregard the importance of foreign capital in developing Australia's resources. I submit that at this time it would be wrong to forbid or inhibit the inflow of foreign capital to assist or sustain certain Australian industries because the lack of liquidity could cause serious impediments to the ability of an industry to remain viable. Nobody can say that the Government is not aware of the need to look into this matter. 
I have said that the Treasurer has called for a White Paper from his Department on this matter and that a Senate select committee has been set up to deal with the subject in fine detail. No doubt the prominence given to the Rocla pipes case and the attempted take-over of Ansett Transport Industries by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd have drawn a lot of public attention to the matter. The Government must look at this subject very carefully in the future. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and indeed the Government are not unaware of the need to do this and to take steps to prevent such take-overs in the future. Not long ago the Prime Minister made a statement to that effect. He referred to legislation to be introduced, such as amendments to the Trade Practices Act, to deal with future take-over bids. I am no lawyer but I do realise that the legality of the matter is complex. I know that the Attorney-General  (Senator Green- wood)  has burned the midnight oil in giving these matters consideration so that ihe Government's actions, whatever they may be, will bc accurate in every respect when it takes legislative action in this area. 
I have indicated previously that it is necessary to work out areas in which foreign investment does represent majority interest, and to give a careful assessment of whether Australian capital could be used in those areas. I noticed that  Senator Douglas  McClelland referred to the awakening of the Democratic Labor Party to the matter of foreign investment in Australia. I could not help noticing a certain division of opinion between the Australian Labor Party and the Democratic Labor Party in this debate.  Senator Douglas  McClelland mentioned that the Australian Labor Party has been raising this matter in Parliament and in public on many occasions over the years. It worries me when I hear members of the Opposition discrediting the advantages of foreign investment in Australia, particularly when they have clear evidence that State Premiers who are members of their own Party have travelled overseas deliberately trying to entice foreign investment to their States. I refer particularly to the Premiers of South Australia and Western Australia. I read with interest some time ago that even the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions has travelled overseas in an attempt to obtain advice from West German and Israeli trade unionists with the object of attracting, and even using, capital from West Germany in order to provide the trade union movement in Australia not only with expertise but also with possible ways of financing the establishment of a finance corporation designed to enable trade unionists to borrow from it for hire purchase requirements. I suppose it is fair to say that  Mr Hawke  should go overseas to attract expert advice in the matter of finance because the enterprise that the ACTU took over recently - Bourke's store - is not doing too well. So it was not surprising to me that he should go outside Australia to obtain financial advice, and probably to attract financial assistance, in order to form a corporation that would be of some benefit to Australian trade unionists. 
I make the observation that it seemed to me to be significant that West German trade unionists came to Australia recently. It was clear to me and to everybody else in Australia, if they can believe what is written in the Press, that the object- 
My friend says that we cannot believe what is written in the Press. That is true, because for a number of years the Press has been conducting a campaign against the Government, lt seems to be mounting. Therefore  I  am glad to hear  Senator Poke's  statement that he does not believe what the Press may have been saying in recent times. Nevertheless, I think that there is a lot of substance in what I believe to be the intention of the ACTU - to attract foreign interests into Australia for its own purposes. I share the concern of the DLP in the matter. Together with my colleagues on this side of the chamber who have demonstrated an equal interest in the matter of foreign investment in Australia, I will urge the Government to look at the matter urgently.  1  do not think we will gain anything at this time by freezing any take-over bids, firstly, because of the action that the. Government has taken in calling for a Treasury document enunciating clearly the effects of foreign capital on the Australian economy and, secondly and not insignificantly, because the Senate has appointed a select committee, to inquire into all areas of concern with regard to the matter. This job will not be completed in a short time. It will require a lot of very careful attention to define clearly the areas in which foreign investment is applied in Australia to work out the precise and significant effects that it will have on the Australian economy. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. Is it a fact that a statement has been made by the former Australian Labor Party shadow minister for Immigration,  Mr Daly?  Has the Minister seen this statement? If so, what did it say? 
I am glad to learn the attitude of the Democratic Labor Party to this matter and that the Labor Party concurs. I believe that we must very carefully consider the references to the Senate committees that we have established, for reasons I have mentioned before. The DLP senators would appreciate those reasons because the DLP, and for that matter the Country Party, have only a few members in this House to devote to these committees. 
That is right.  Senator Townley  happens to be a member of the Committee we are discussing. Committee work takes a lot of time. The DLP has no member on the Standing Committee on 
Health and Welfare but I am sure that it would be happy to have a representative on it if he had the time to spare to devote to these important matters. I think we have to bear this in mind. 
I do not think it is really fair for a senator to attend only occasionally. If we are to make these committees work we must have a conscientious effort by everybody to attend. I am not suggesting that  Senator Murphy's  motion is not a matter of urgency. I am suggesting that he ought to consider these matters very carefully in the future. I particularly have in mind the report submitted recently by the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade on the proposed takeover of Ansett Transport Industries. It is a classic example of how the Senate can work efficiently and quickly to bring down a report.  Senator Prowse,  the  Chairman  of that Committee, is in the Chair at the moment. I think he ought to be proud of that report because it was produced effectively and quickly. In the short time that the Committee had to deal with the question it produced a document of which it can be justly proud. The Committee, which was set up at the instigation of the Democratic Labor Party, referred in its report to the need to go into the particular matter very carefully. I think we have to consider these points more carefully in future. 

 Senator Murphy is one of the architects of the committee system and I suggest to him that unless he is very careful he is likely to destroy the building that he has helped to create. I look upon the matter of poverty as being of critical importance. One of the references we have made to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare could well include an investigation into poverty in the community. I do not understand how the Committee can explore the possible introduction of a national superannuation plan without giving very careful consideration to what we are to do in the area of poverty - to discover the people who cannot afford to be included in such a plan. I believe that to a degree this motion is duplicating a reference that is already before the Committee. 
The committee of which 1 am a member currently has under consideration all aspects of repatriation. This is quite a demanding task. We are in the process of winding up the taking of evidence but a lot of wheat has to be separated from the chaff in this evidence. We have to give due regard to the demands that are placed upon the staff who are helping us to correlate ideas before producing a report. I do not think we will be in a position to report to the Senate, in my personal view, before next year. 1 do not think we ought to rush into a report that is so important. I ask  Senator Murphy  to pay due regard to the need to preserve the building that he has helped to create - the establishment of the Senate as a committee House. There may be other ways in which the problems of poverty could be dealt with. I feel confident that the Government will take some action. My belief is not based on fact or information I have received, but I would like to think that before 25th May a move will be made by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in this area. I commend the Opposition and the DLP for considering the adjournment of this matter. 
Very well. I would also like to suggest to the DLP that it should very carefully consider what I have said about the responsibility of its members to serve on committees that are dealing with matters of great national significance. 
I know. That is why I am making the point. I believe that you are interested in this matter. 
Thank you for reminding me, although on this occasion I would have thought the Chair might excuse me because of the compliment I paid earlier about the latest report before the Senate.  Mr Deputy President,  I crave your indulgence for my exchange with my friends of the DLP. This is an important consideration. The Country Party, of which you are a member,  Sir, and  the 
DLP have a limited number of members in this House and should pay due regard to confining the activities of committees to a narrower area. 
-I realise that. I have paid you the compliment of going along with the idea of adjourning this matter. I think all honourable senators must uphold the committee system. We have to do all we can to preserve it and to make sure that it works effectively. We must exert our efforts collectively to try to get the Government to act upon the reports which are brought down and which I believe are of great significance to the Australian people. I support what  Senator Douglas  McClelland said in a speech that he made earlier today on the report on physically and mentally handicapped people by the Wedgwood Committee. The honourable senator mentioned that a number of reports had come from Senate committees and that the Government would do well to adopt their recommendations. The Senate can be a very effective House if we do all that we can to preserve this system. But we can make it so only by paying due regard to the time involved in pursuing an inquiry and the burden that this imposes on members of these committees in order that committee work may be really effective. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior seen a newspaper report which suggests that only 5 of the 52 Aborigines who were supposed to have supported a petition opposing a wood chip industry on Melville and Bathurst Islands had in fact done so? Can the Minister say whether the report is correct? Can he also say whether such an industry would provide job opportunities for the Aboriginal people in that area? Is he able to say who was responsible for initiating this petition, which apparently does not represent the views of the people concerned? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral's notice been drawn to a Press statement indicating that marshals have been appointed by the Vietnam Moratorium Committee to prevent a repetition of the violence that occurred last Friday during street demonstrations? In view of this anticipation of further hooliganism designed to encourage attacks on property and clashes with the police, will the Attorney-General ask the Commonwealth Government to request the State Premiers to allocate open public areas to enable mass meetings to be held in a peaceful atmosphere, thereby minimising the threat of violence and providing a more sensible and effective way to register points of view? 
asked the Minister for 
Health, upon notice: 
With reference to the proposal by the General Practitioners' Society recommending a substantial increase in doctors' charges, will the Minister (a) conduct a survey of 1,000 doctors concerned  to  obtain a quantitative expression of opinion on this matter, (b) take action to prevent doctors, who depart radically from the common fee schedule, from receiving the substantial Commonwealth Government contribution towards their income, and (c) give consideration to a regulation whereby those doctors, who charge in excess of 5 per cent above the common fee, can be prevented from participating in the National Health Scheme. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
to (c) It is not proposed to conduct the survey suggested by the honourable senator. The Government is concerned to ensure the effective operation of the Medical Benefits Scheme based on most common fees and has recently appointed  Mr Justice  Mason to determine, for the purposes of the Scheme, fair and reasonable fees for general practitioner surgery consultations and home visits in New South Wales. As has already been announced, if, after implementation of  Mr Justice 
Mason's findings, there is a failure by the medical profession to achieve a high level of observance of the most common fees, other measures will be considered. 
Has the notice of the Minister for Health been drawn to the latest statement made by the Leader of the Opposition in another place in which he states that the Australian Labor Party health scheme would be administered by a single health fund and that under the ALP plan people would be charged a levy of 1.3 per cent of taxable income? Did the Minister also notice that the ALP undertakes to provide families whose taxable income is less than $1,700 with free health cover? Will the Minister also respond to the reference made by  Mr Whitlam  to the effect that some 10 per cent of people are not in a voluntary health fund? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes, I have noticed the statement which appeared in this morning's Press attributed to the Leader of the Opposition in another place. I respond to the question by pointing out that whilst the Leader of the Opposition in another place seems to make great play of his proposal that families with a taxable income of less than $1,700 a year would receive free health care, he conveniently overlooks the fact that this Government provides free health care to people whose income is less than $2,417, not $1,700. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral seen the challenge issued by the Premier of South Australia with regard to a draft resister in that State? Has the Commonwealth any powers in this matter? If so, what action does the Attorney propose taking? 
 I wish to use the opportunity provided by the debate on the Appropriation Bills (No. 4) and (No. 5) to point out 2 matters to the Senate. One refers to the Kimba-Polda pipeline in South Australia which has been the subject of an application by the State Government for a grant from the National Water Resources Fund for a number of years. I recall when I was a member of the House of Representatives that this question was discussed in conjunction with consideration of the KeithMannum pipeline and on that occasion the State Government's submission pointed towards the wisdom of granting money for the purpose of that pipeline. Last year the State Government made a further representation for a grant of money from this source to assist in the very important task of completing a pipeline which would serve quite an important farming area in South Australia. 
The pipeline is a 15-inch main and is 60 miles long. It passes through a productive farming area. The scheme itself will cost $2. 5m and will serve to stabilise the primary industries in that area and allow for the continuation of diversification. Unfortunately the submission from the State Government did not stress the efforts being made by the farmers in that area to diversify their stocking patterns. It pointed fairly clearly to the increase in the sheep population in the area and, of course, the Government bearing that in mind was justified in suggesting that at a time when the Commonwealth was helping the wool industry it would be unwise for it to aggravate the situation in that area by encouraging the further production of wool. 
However, in October of last year 2 members of the State Opposition,  Mr Graham  Gunn, the member for that area, and  Mr Arthur  Whyte, M.L.C., together with honourable senators from this side of the House made representations to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  pointing out the significant attempts of the farmers in that area to diversify their production. We showed that there was a substantial increase in cattle production in that area - from 1,215 in 1965 to 4,753 in 1971. Pig production increased from 1,634 in 1965 to 4,582. There is evidence that the raising of English bred sheep is being encouraged in that area, purely for meat production purposes. So I was glad when the Prime Minister recognised the efforts of these farmers to undertake diversification. The Minister for National Development and the Prime Minister agreed to consider a further submission from the State Government. Regrettably, to date the 
State Government has not made a submission, although I understand that the Premier of South Australia has written a letter to the Prime Minister indicating that such is his intention. I hope that before long the submission will arrive and that the substance of the submission will substantiate what I have already told the Senate. I do hope that when that time comes the Commonwealth Government will look kindly upon the submission and grant the money necessary to ensure a speedy completion of that important pipeline. 
Another matter to which I refer is the much vexed question of national highway No. 1 or, as it is known in South Australia, the Eyre Highway. It has been the subject of comment in the Senate by senators from both sides. We realise the need to ensure that that highway is sealed at the earliest possible time. We realise that the State Government has indicated an interest in that road and has decided to allocate S&gt;5m appropriated from certain funds in that State. It is prepared to direct that amount towards the important work of constructing and sealing the highway, provided the Commonwealth Government comes to the party with $2.5m, the additional amount required to complete this important road. On many occasions I have pointed out to the Minister that this road carries a large number of vehicles that are registered in States other than South Australia. Figures given to me following questions  Senator Bishop  and I asked on this matter during a Senate estimates committee hearing indicate that the volume of interstate traffic on that road now amounts to 80 per cent of the total traffic. In my view, that points quite strongly to the need for the Commonwealth Government to reassess its attitude to roads of this character, because I am quite sure that all honourable senators will agree that the State Government cannot be expected to give an extremely high priority to a road that carries only a relatively small number of vehicles registered in that State. 
We hear the excuse given by the Commonwealth Government that under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement the Commonwealth cannot interfere in this area because the categories of roads are defined clearly, the amounts are allocated and it is up to the States to decide on the priorities which they give to roads which they consider need attention. I point out that not only does the Eyre Highway, national highway No. 1, come in that category but in my view other roads can be classed as national roads as well. There is a road in Queensland, the Landsborough Highway, there is the Stuart Highway, also in South Australia, and there is a road in Western Australia, the Great Northern Highway from Meekathara to Port Hedland to Broome. In my view these roads demand more attention from the Commonwealth Government. I think there is a strong case for a complete review of the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement, bearing in mind the need to recognise a special category of national roads which should be mainly the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government. I referred to the Stuart Highway in South Australia. I know that when the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  was Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities he journeyed over that road which goes through a very interesting part of South Australia and which leads into the Northern Territory. It passes through the Coober Pedy opal area. It goes through potentially rich mining areas and also fairly rich beef growing areas. I recall that on his return he said that he could well understand the complaints of people in that area about the road because in many parts it was nonexistent. 
I appreciate that the Commonwealth has recognised the need to improve transport between the Northern Territory and South Australia because it is currently surveying the route of a railway line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. It would appear to me that it would not only be good sense if the Government allocated, in the forthcoming Budget or in the near future, sufficient funds to allow for the construction of that railway line but also it would be wise for it to consider the economic feasibility of carrying out at least the basic roadworks necessary to form that road along relatively the same route. It would be an economic project as far as I am concerned. I believe that the Commonwealth Government should look at the matter of sealing that road in the near future. Of course I realise that it can be done only with the co-operation of the South Australian Government. As far as I know the State Government has made no approach to the 
Commonwealth with regard to that highway. I think it is fair, under the present system, for the Commonwealth to say that it cannot make a special grant for the Eyre Highway, bearing in mind that 4 or 5 other roads in Australia are in the same category. The Queensland Government made a plea for certain moneys to be allocated for the Landsborough Highway. It received the same answer. I think we have a strong case here.  Senator Bishop  may agree with me that there is a case for the Commonwealth Government to consider grouping all these roads together in an effort to get the lot done at the earliest possible time. I would appreciate it if the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  would take notice of what I have said about both projects, which are of great significance to South Australia. 
I direct a question without notice to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. It relates to the questions asked by  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Douglas  McClelland. Has the Minister noticed that the latest unemployment figures reflect the highest levels in South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania? Has he also seen a report that 25,000 metal workers in South Australia are taking part in a halfday stoppage today which is symptomatic of trade union sickness in that State? Can the Minister say whether this type of activity creates uncertainty in the minds of employers with regard to productivity within their industries? Can he say also whether this is a significant factor in the creation of additional employment opportunities? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to  a  letter to the editor in yesterday's Adelaide Advertiser* from a trade unionist from Para Hills West? The letter refers to union ordered strikes. Has he noted that the gentleman states in his letter  a  few lines of which I would like to quote: 
After 30 years of working and striking I have had  a gutsful  of getting up in the morning and wondering whether my union friends are going to tell me to- 
1 listened with interest to  Senator Douglas  Mcclelland, who has just resumed his seat. I believe that he mentioned something about unemployment in the particular industry. 1 would imagine that the Bill would alleviate unemployment in the areas which he mentioned, because the Government is providing $21m over the next few years to enable the States to continue planting pine trees on State owned land. I think we must agree that the Bill is a very worthy one. Contrary to what  Senator Douglas  McClelland said, it will be for the benefit of the people employed in this industry. 1 draw the attention of the Senate to tm plight of the private forestry sector. Private forestry is primarily a softwood proposition. That is how it is commonly considered in Australia. It can be divided into 3 categories. The first is farm forestry, which usually consists of the planting of pines on odd pieces of land which are normally unsuitable for any other purpose. That planting is done without the benefit of any professional advice and often without regard to the location of the markets. The second is investment forestry, which is usually effected by the sale of bonds or shares to the public. The temptation for the salesmen to exaggerate the returns to be expected, in order to induce sales, can be readily understood. In this area control may prove undesirable. The third is industrial forestry, which is the establishment by the timber industry of large areas of pine plantations to provide a source of raw material for the processing plants as an insurance against restrictions of large supplies from Government sources as a result of extensive destruction of forests by fire, wind, insects or disease. Staffs of professional foresters are employed to establish and manage these plantations. They have already established for their forest products a ready market situated within economic distances of utilisation plants. 
It seems to me that the various governments should provide a forest service to advise the first 2 categories that 1 have mentioned on the suitability of the sites for growing pines and on the proper methods for the establishment of forests and their management. At present large numbers of professional foresters are being provided through the Forestry Department of the Australian National University. I do not see why these men should be made available solely to the State forest services, as is the case at present. I know that a certain number of these students have become available mainly to the industrial forestry companies. But I am concerned that practically none of the farm foresters or investment forestry companies apparently can afford to employ them. The State forest services so distrust the investment forestry companies that sometimes they will not even permit their forestry officers to advise such companies. 
Under this Bill the Government is providing millions of dollars to enable the State forest services to expand the establishment and management of softwood plantations. Yet not only do these organisations have amply trained staff at the moment, but also they have many other advantages over private foresters. For example, the Government forestry departments pay no income tax or land tax. Certainly, private forestry is given some taxation benefits but these' are not equal to the tax free position of the State services. 
I was coming to that point. I thank the honourable senator for reminding me. The State forest services are also free of local government rates which are tending to assume alarming proportions. Yet the private companies have to compete, as  Senator Webster  mentioned a while ago, with produce from the government forests. To plant 2.000 acres a year, even in the most economic conditions, would cost at least $100,000 each year without including the cost of the land, lt would cost about $200,000 properly to maintain the resulting forests at the end of the 1 5th year. The total investment to that time, without adding interest charges, would be about $2m. At the end of 35 years when these forests can be considered mature this amount would have more than doubled. It is an extremely expensive undertaking. I want this point to sink in. 
When it is realised that from time to time these industrial companies must continue to install and replace the very expensive machinery necessary to process the ever expanding production from a developing forest, it will be seen how important assistance can be to them in their financial problems. 
I have a few notes that I put together for the honourable senator's benefit because these points are very significant to the people in the industry. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works. 
17/35 runway, taxiways and aprons at Canberra (Fairbairn) Airport. 
Film studios at Lindfield, New South Wales. 
Communications tower at Black .Mountain. Australian Capital Territory. 
Tiwi and Wanguri Schools at Darwin, Northern Territory. 
Casuarina Hospital at 'Darwin, Northern Territory. 
Royal Australian Army Service Corps Centre at Puckapunyal, Victoria. 
Commonwealth Centre (Phase 1) at Melbourne, Victoria. 
Post Office and Administrative Building at Bathurst, New South Wales. 
My question to the Minister representing the. Minister for Foreign Affairs relates, to a degree, to the one asked by  Senator Willesee.  Can the Minister tell the Senate whether a protest has been lodged by any government to the United Nations with regard to the racially discriminatory actions of .the Ugandan Government in expelling both national and non-national Asians from that country? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service noted a reported statement attributed to  Mr Hawke,  to whom some refer as the shadow Leader of the Opposition, deploring violence associated with strikes? Does this mean that the Australian Council of Trade Unions now condemns breaches of law and order in industrial disputes? 
I do not want to detain the Senate for very long. I support what  Senator Webster  said this evening because I believe that the  attack on Australian workers employed by the Ford Motor Co. of Australia and other companies has been irresponsible and unfair. I do not think it should have been raised in this chamber. 
I will answer  Senator Cavanagh,  but ' I do not need his help. I intend to deal very carefully with what he said. I think he said something about sloppy ' manufacture and  I  believe he implied that the workers could be blamed. 
I am sorry. I can aflord to drive only a Ford motor car. I have had a Cortina for. a' lengthy period and I have had no trouble &lt; with it. I believe that the words that  Senator Primmer  used last night were, irresponsible. I support what  Senator Webster  said and I draw the Senate's attention to the fact that the Ford Motor Co. employs in Victoria 10,600 people, in New South Wales 700 people and in Queensland- 570 people, a total of 11,940 people. Its annual wage and salary bill is $55m; In "1971 its purchases in Australia amounted to $206.2m. It paid tax, including sales tax, duties and income tax, amounting to not less than $89m. Tonight we have heard a member of the Australian Labor Party condemning workers in 'that company's ; factories for faulty workmanship. I believe that such an attack by people on the other side of the chamber is irresponsible and inexcusable. 
The figures are irrefutable. They are from statistical sources which 1 believe are irrefutable. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT-  Order! I draw the attention of Opposition senators to the fact that each speech from their side has been listened to with attention by honourable senators on my right. When a  speaker  on my right has spoken there has been a continuous run of interjections. As occupant of the Chair it is my duty to listen to all speeches. I think that as members of the Opposition are given a fair go it is only right that they should reciprocate. This running commentary must cease. Last night 1 had to listen to all the aches and pains associated with owning a motor car. I know nothing about that subject because I am a push bike cyclist but I still had to listen. I want honourable senators on my left to understand that they in turn have to listen to speakers on my right. 
 Mr Acting President,  I appreciate what you have said. I was in America recently and I was given a pamphlet that read: 'If You Want to Stop Pollution Ride a Horse'. I have this pamphlet on the back of my Cortina can If we followed your example,  Mr Acting President,  it might be a good thing for Australia generally. That statement indicates that I am not defending motor cars. Faults do occur in the manufacture of any commodity, whether h be refrigerators, washing machines, air conditioners or motor cars. I have a very affluent medical practitioner friend who is able to acord a Mercedes Benz. My friend  Senator Primmer  is reputed to be able to afford a Mercedes Benz. This medical practitioner had to have the differential in his car replaced 3 times, so faults can occur in a motor car which is essentially an imported vehicle. I believe that it is fair to suggest that in mass production minor faults will occur. I speak only from personal experience, having owned several Ford motor cars and several GMH motor cars. I have had minor problems with my motor vehicles but the faults have always been rectified by the people who sold the cars to me. I am sure that the Ford Motor Co. and others, as my colleagues  Senator Webster  suggested, sell motor cars in good faith and do everything they can to ensure the safety of those people who purchase the cars. I believe that the attack of the Labor Party on these motor vehicles is an attack on the workers who produce them. I believe that the attack is irresponsible and that it should be recorded in this place as an act of irresponsibility and a lack of faith in Australian workers. 
Can the Minister representing the Minster for Education and Science state, firstly, the total amount spent by the Commonwealth Government on Aboriginal education in the year ending 30th June 1972; and secondly the amount allocated for this purpose in the current Budget? Thirdly can he represent these figures as per capita figures? Fourthly, can he provide me also with the per capita figure spent on the education of other Australians during the same period? 
I also wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the 'AM' programme broadcast yesterday in which a  Mr Blood  interviewed  Senator Douglas  McClelland? I ask whether his attention has been drawn to a statement by  Mr Blood  that when  Mr Whitlam  addressed the federal conference of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staff Association in June of last year he said: 
. il would be dishonest for me to assert that the ABC would be free of criticism, free of pressure muter a Labor government. I confess that there is an authoritarian streak'- 
The ACTING PRESIDENT- Order! I have already given a ruling that quotations must noi be used during question time. You may give your own interpretation of what somebody has said, but do nol quote. 
Is this not a clear indication that a Labor government would subject the ABC to both criticism and pressure? 
I am sure that we all look forward to hearing from  Senator Keeffe.  We all listen intently to his dulcet tones. Inevitably we find that when there is a thread of denigration running through his speech, there is a reason for it. I am able to inform the Senate why this has happened today. It is because the Budget has effectively plucked the tail feathers from  Senator McLaren, Senator Keeffe  and other members of the Australian Labor Party, so much so that, they dare not refer in great detail to the provisions in the Budget. The honourable senator has made casual reference to defence, but of course the Labor Party is not interested in defence. He made some reference to Queensland's requirement of an international airport. I, together with my colleagues of the Parliamentary Public Works Committee, will be visiting Queensland in the very near future and, after inspecting and listening to evidence related to 3 aerodromes in that State, the Committee will consider the expenditure of a large sum of money for that purpose. 

 Senator Keeffe mentioned the dispute in the oil industry and he insinuated something about the League of Rights, a remark which I thought was not applicable to the Budget. I should like to make a point about the oil strike. This was not a problem which involved the Government; it was a confrontation between Laurie Carmichael and Bob Hawke. This was a classic example of how the communist friends of the Labor Party can hold the nation to ransom. I believe that this was the precise situation in this case. It was a matter in which the 2 people to whom 1 have referred frustrated conciliation and arbitration to the great detriment of the working people of Australia. They almost succeeded in bringing the country to a standstill. This is the sort of activity that appeals to people like Laurie Carmichael. It was unfortunate that when  Mr Hawke  was elected  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions he said that he was going to take strike action. In this case the striking horse bolted and he could not stop it. 
Having mentioned those things I should like to come back to the subject before the Senate - the Budget. Nobody can deny that the provisions of the Budget will provide a stimulus to the consumer section of the economy. It will inject confidence into the business part of the economy. I believe that there are many ingredients in the Budget that will achieve this purpose. The Leader of the Opposition in another place  (Mr Whitlam)  referred to this as a rich man's Budget. I cannot work this out at all because the taxation rebates and the personal taxation restructuring were designed to give the maximum benefit to those people who are in the lower income groups. I should like to mention one or two illustrations of this. Consider the wage earner with a wife and 2 dependent children who is able to claim an average amount of other deductions. My first example is a wage earner with an income of $67 a week - $3484 a year - will receive a reduction of $63.20 in taxation, representing a 24.5 per cent reduction. As we go "p the scale to the middle area of - say $12,000 - the saving in a similar case would be $295, which is 10.5 per cent. As the salary becomes higher the percentage reduction becomes lower. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - The point of order is not upheld.  Senator Jessop  will know the rules of debate in the Senate. I invite him to continue and to relate his remarks to the Budget. 
I could not help noticing while  Senator Keeffe  was on his feet that he was referring to notes quite frequently. I shall continue to refer to notes in the spirit of the standing order to which he referred. The Government's decision to increase the amount exempted from estate duty received the acclaim of senators on this side of the chamber. No doubt  Senator Negus  was pleased to hear the concessions that were made in this regard. I think a lot of senators share his view that the exemption should be increased further. 
 I know that  Senator Young,  for one, did. If I had been a member of the Senate then I probably would have voted for it. I thank the honourable senator for giving me an opportunity to draw the attention of the Senate to the independence of  Senator Young  in exercising his right to vote that way. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order!  Senator Jessop  will address the Chair and not carry on conversations with groups of senators. I ask other honourable senators to refrain from interjecting. 
I find it difficult to refrain from replying because I am pestered by interjections. I draw the attention of the Senate to one or two provisions with regard to ordinary estates. For estates arising from deaths on or after 16th August 1972 the statutory exemption from duty will be $40,000 where the estate passes solely to close relatives and $20,000 where no part of the estate is so passed. That increase in the amount of statutory exemption is an example of the Government's liberal policy in this area. Estate duty on the estates of primary producers has been a tremendous burden to many .people in recent years. The statutory exemption in relation to such estates has had substantial changes made in it. I will not elaborate on that matter any further. 
I was pleased to note that the Budget took heed of the need to provide further substantial amounts to benefit Aboriginal people. Expenditure for this purpose will be increased by 70 per cent to $53m. This morning I was glad to hear a reply from the Minister to a question that I asked. Despite attempts by the Opposition to frustrate him when he was giving his answer, he said that Aboriginal children are attracting education grants of $100 a head. I think this increase is quite a remarkable one, particularly in view of the fact that the per capita grants for other Australians are considerably less than that. If I remember correctly, the figure for Aborigines was twice the figure for nonAborigines. 
That is right. The figure for Aboriginal children is $100. That is an example of the way in which the Government is progressing very rapidly in the areas of need experienced by Aboriginal people.  Senator Bonner  has been most consistent with his representations in these matters. I think he can accept some credit for drawing the attention of the Government to areas of need as far as his people are concerned. 
I refer now to 2 aspects that are of tremendous significance to South Australia and the Nothern Territory. The first is the provision of $2.5m to enable the South Australian Government to complete the sealing of national highway No. 1 from Penong to the Western Australian border. I was elected as a member of the House of Representatives in 1966. Since then this highway has been the subject of my constant attention and has been the reason for dozens of representations by me to succesive Ministers for Shipping and Transport. The excuse always was that the Government could not involve itself with a specific grant for the purpose of sealing that highway. It always threw up to me the 
Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement. I think this provision in the Budget is a clear step towards the acceptance of the principle of a national highways system. Many people have been advocating this principle for a long time. 
I was pleased to see that something is to be done with regard to highways that connect capital cities and highways that carry a larger percentage of vehicles registered in other States than vehicles from the State through which the road goes. I was particularly interested in the provision in the Budget of $250,000 to investigate and plan future requirements with regard to the policy related to a national highways system. I think this provision is a great step forward. I believe that the Commonwealth Government must accelerate the programme so that other roads which come under the same category will be sealed, thus enabling people to travel interstate on sealed roads. 
As Secretary of the Government Members Transport Committee, I join with the  Chairman, Mr Calder,  the member for the Northern Territory, and with Committee members,  Mr Kelly,  the member for Wakefield and Senators Laucke and Young from South Australia, in congratulating the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  for providing $54m to construct a new railway line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. This project is of considerable significance to South Australia and the Northern Territory. I believe that it will contribute to the mutual development of both areas. I note from the Budget that $3 .4m will be spent in the coming year to get this work started. While I am on the subject of railway lines, I refer to the subject of concrete sleepers. This matter has been raised in the Senate by senators from both sides. All of us have expressed concern that the concrete sleeper industry at Whyalla was forced to close recently because the Commonwealth Railways was not able to give it a contract to provide sleepers for the upgrading of the railway line from Port Augusta to Port Pirie. 
I believe that the economics of the use of concrete sleepers should be considered very carefully. I understand that the Bureau of Transport Economics is at present drawing up a report for the benefit of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr 
McMahon). In the last letter that I wrote to the Prime Minister I drew attention to the importance of reviving this industry in the interests of decentralisation. I am of the view that the Commonwealth Railways should give favourable consideration to the use of concrete sleepers on the railway line from Tarcoola and on other projects in South Australia. It has been suggested that the use of concrete sleepers will substantially affect the timber industry in Western Australia. According to statistics that I have, an increased cubic footage of timber has been used for making sleepers during the last year or so. I do not think that the use of concrete sleepers on these projects will substantially affect the production of timber sleepers in Western Australia. I have the assurance of the Prime Minister and. the Minister for Shipping and Transport that they will pay regard to the community interests, with regard to this industry in the northern part of the Spencer Gulf area, when the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics comes to hand. 
I suggest to the Government that it should consider the economics of the provision of a road from Tarcoola to Alice Springs at the same time as the railway line is constructed. In my view, it seems quite stupid not to utilise heavy equipment that is there for the foundation work of a railway line. This sort of equipment could be used for the base metalling and construction work of a road running along a similar route with, I believe, great economic benefit to the Government. 
 I think that the people are paying for this facility and they must have regard to the economies that would be achieved if this sort of project were considered. I am sure that I would have the honourable senator's support in this regard. 
 This has been the subject of continual representations from honourable senators on this side of the Senate for many more years than the  honourable  senator has  been  here. 
In the Senate, that is so. Let us look at the tremendous advantage that could  be  achieved.  The  Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  who is in the Senate chamber was once the Minister in  charge  of  Tourist  Activities.  He  has  driven  over this road. I may say that he was a man of great enthusiasm when he held that portfolio. 
 I am referring to  Senator Wright.  He is now the Minister for Works and has a continuing interest in construction work of this nature in Australia. He took the trouble to drive up there in a four-wheel drive vehicle. He said to me that the road certainly needed some attention. I know that I can rely on his full support in pressing this matter in the Cabinet room. 
 The Minister knows as well as I that many people from Sydney travel up into the Northern Territory and that improving the road would encourage a tremendous amount of tourist business through to that area. I know that the honourable member for the Northern Territory,  Mr Sam  Calder, in another place has been pressing very strongly for this and that he will continue to do so. 
I wish to deal quickly with education. Here again, I appreciate that the Government recognised the need to make more money available for this important field and has increased direct expenditure in this regard to $426m, which represents an increase of $72m. Of course, we note that there have been substantial increases in secondary and tertiary scholarships. I would like to draw the attention of the appropriate Minister, the Minister for Works who represents the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the Senate, to the plight of parents living in outback isolated areas of Australia. I know that essentially this is a State matter and it is up to the States where they spend their money. I believe that the Commonwealth Government ought to have a look at this and provide- 
That is true, but I intend to touch on a matter a little different to that. I am referring to the penalty that is imposed upon such people because of the need to provide governesses up to a certain stage of education and because of the need for these parents to send their children away from home thus incurring substantial boarding expenses as well as general education expenses. This is not confined to the station owners and farmers. It applies also to the people working on the Commonwealth railways up in the northern part of South Australia and to station hands and other people with children who work on these properties and who keep the rural industries going in these areas. I think that this is a matter that ought to be given careful consideration. I have received representations from the Port Augusta Isolated Children's Parents Association over the last couple of years in regard to this matter. This position applies in Western Australia, Queensland and other States. So I think that we ought to be able to do something in this regard. The expenditure involved would not be great. I think that the parents in South Australia have worked out that it would be of the order of $600,000. Perhaps this matter could be looked at in the context of the next Premiers Conference to see whether a little extra can be given to help these people. 
 I think that Association wants something to be provided for living away allowances for their children. I will obtain more specific details. I have already given the Minister some idea of what is required. At the first opportunity I will furnish him with the figures. I turn now to a project that is of great significance to the Eyre Peninsula. I refer to the Kimba-Polda pipeline. Yesterday I heard  Senator McLaren  use the Victoria Grant (Millewa Pipelines) Bill 1972 as a vehicle to introduce this matter. I appreciate his concern. I support the motives behind it. But I would like to correct one or two things he said to bring him up to date with the history of this matter. In 1967 I was the member for the electorate of Grey in another place when this project was first submitted to the Government for consideration under the national water resources arrangement. It was rejected. 
 I was rejected, but not by very much. I was interested to see that the electorate of Grey could be won back by the Government if a 2i per cent voting swing were to take place. So it is a marginal seat. I want to refer chronologically to this project for the information of honourable senators who have not taken a continuing interest in it. In 1967 funds were not provided for the Kimba-Polda pipeline because the Keith pipeline down in the south east of South Australia seemed to have more going for it. I objected to this and tried to attract the Government's attention to the urgency of the pipeline to which I now refer. This project was re-submitted by the present Labor Government in South Australia in 1970. This is the point on which  Senator McLaren  was right.  His  reference to this is shown in yesterday's Hansard. He referred to the fact that the  Commonwealth Government  could not provide money for this purpose because it appeared that it would cause an increase in sheep population and aggravate the problems of the wool industry at that time. That was a very logical attitude because the submission of the State Labor Government was not accurate in regard to stocking patterns. This is the point on which the honourable senator does not have the correct story. 
In October of last year I, together with the other Government senators from South Australia -  Senator Young, Senator Laucke, Senator Davidson  and, I think,  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield - put this case to the Prime Minister and to the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz).  We were accompanied by  Mr White  from the South Australian Legislative Council  and  Mr Gunn,  the member for Eyre. As a result of that deputation we were able to point towards the changing emphasis in stocking patterns. We were able to show that beef production in that area had increased and that the farmers were genuinely diversifying their activities into other areas so that there was not an emphasis or proliferation of the problems with regard to  the  wool industry. 
The Prime Minister and the Minister for National Development, recognising that the original submission of the State Labor Government was inaccurate, suggested that they could be persuaded to reconsider the project. This was done. I hope that this time the State Labor Government has done a little more homework and provided the statistics that we have suggested. I have recently received a letter from the Minister for National Development which reads: 
I refer to your letter of 17th August requesting information on the latest position regarding Commonwealth assistance for the Kimba-Polda Pipeline in South Australia. 
The revised submission by the State Government referred to in your letter has been received, and has been the subject of detailed study by the departments concerned. This study is now nearly complete and I am hopeful that it will be possible to make a decision in the fairly near future. 
As soon as a decision has been reached it will be conveyed to the South Australian Government. 
I support that project wholeheartedly - and I am sure that  Senator McLaren  will lend his support to it. Finally, 1 want to refer to the question whether the Australian dollar should be revalued. I have heard that  Mr Whitlam,  the Leader of the Opposition in another place, supports revaluation, but I believe that other people including  Mr Rex  Patterson, the shadow minister for primary industry, would not share his view. I should like to read to the Senate some passages from the Bank of New South Wales Review No. 3 of June 1972. This document was drawn to my attention by  Mr Prowse,  the Assistant General Manager of the Bank of New South Wales, whom I heard speaking on the radio programme PM on Friday last. He made 3 main points: First, that Australia should not revalue the dollar; secondly, that we should encourage Australians to invest overseas; thirdly, that we should lower bank interest rates. I should like to read 3 short passages from this document for the information of the Senate, for I think it is worthwhile. 
-I think he is the Bank's economist. I can find out. The first passage on 'Up- Valuation' is most interesting. It reads: 
Australia's embarrassment of international riches has added fuel to the argument that the Australian dollar is undervalued. The main force of the argument in favour of up-valuation has not basically sprung from concern about the size of international reserves. In the main, the proponents of upvaluation are concerned about an undervalued currency being a contributing cause of domestic inflation. The up-valuation school would argue, inter alia, that too high a price is being paid for imports. 
Thus, at first sight, it might appear that currency appreciation would be an attractive solution both to curb domestic inflation and to reduce the size of international reserves. In simple terms, appreciation would reduce the size of the trade surplus and prevent excessive accumulation of reserves. 
However, the situation is not so clear-cut. First, other considerations have to be taken into account - how particular export industries would be affected and what tariff protection would be requested by manufacturers in order to compete against cheaper imports. Second, a detailed evaluation of the current and capital accounts, which make up the balance of payments, raises doubts whether Australia's trading position is as strong as the figures might suggest. 
I was interested in the question which  Senator Carrick  asked this morning about the proposal for revaluation as propounded by the Leader of the Federal Opposition. I think that question brought out quite forcibly that revaluation would have a disastrous effect on the mining and other industries and on the rural sector. I was interested, too, in what the Bank official whom I have quoted had to say about interest rates. This is the text from the Bank of New South Wales Review: 
Despite the high liquidity in the Australian economy, which has resulted in part from the capital inflow, there has been an increasing tendency for Australian companies to borrow overseas. One explanation for this borrowing has been the higher interest rate structure in Australia than in some overseas capital markets. 
Until recently, the Australian interest rate structure was to some extent insulated from international trends. However, with the growing sophistication and internationalisation of the Australian capital market, including the ability of Australian companies to borrow overseas, the Australian interest rate structure should become more responsive to changes in the principal overseas money market. If for no other reason, a lower interest rate structure in Australia would be useful in order to contain the more volatile element in the present capital inflow. 
In relation to stimulation of capital overseas the author states: 
The control on investment overseas, which has operated since 1939, has had a restrictive effect on all external investment other than certain types of direct investment. In accordance with government policy, ready approval is given to direct investment projects involving the use of Australian management and technical skill, particularly where  exports from Australia are promoted. The reinvestment abroad of undistributed profits requires further specific approval, 
I believe the general question of encouraging Australian companies to invest overseas is supported by a large number of people in the banking area. This question I put to the Treasurer simply to see whether there is any substance in it so far as he is concerned, or whether there is any point in investigating the economic motives behind it. That is all I want to say on the Budget. I believe the Budget will be successful in keeping the Australian Labor Party in political isolation for another 23 years. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service noticed the report of a statement made by the Assistant Secretary of the South Australian Trades and Labour Council,  Mr T.  Calnan, who has recently returned from a visit to Britain and Europe? Is he aware that  Mr Calnan  was a member of the 4-man Australian Council of Trade Unions team which attended the International Labor Organisation in Geneva and also the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions in London? 
Did the Minister notice that  Mr Calnan  said that he believed that Australia's arbitration system, although he was not entirely happy with it, was better than the individual collective bargaining system working in West Germany and England and that he was convinced that working conditions in Australia were amongst the best in the world? Is this judgment by this member of the ACTU a fair assessment of the arbitration system in Australia? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of the concern expressed by the paramedical professions that their patients are unable to attract the Commonwealth benefit under the existing national health scheme? Will the Minister urge the Government to revise the Act so that physiotherapy, dentistry and optometry are included in order that patients seeking treatment from such professions will be able to receive Commonwealth assistance similar to that afforded to patients of the medical profession? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister noticed a reported statement attributed to the Leader of the Opposition in another place in which it was stated that a Labor government would amend the tax laws to encourage Australian insurance companies to invest in approved basic insurances and developmental projects? Can the Minister say whether Australian insurance companies have invested in such enterprises? Is not the statement of the Leader of the Opposition contrary to federal Australian Labor Party policy which suggests that under a Labor government insurance companies could be nationalised? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, J present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Commonwealth Centre (First Stage) at Woolloomooloo, New South Wales; 
Palmerston Arterial Road at Darwin, Northern Territory. 
Is the Acting Leader for the Government in the Senate in his capacity as representative of the Minister for Supply aware that Maralinga township in the north west of South Australia has been uninhabited for some years except for a caretaker who is forced to look after the facilities in that area? Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Government has offered the town to the South Australian Government for the use of Aboriginal people in 
South Australia? If so, how long ago was the offer made? Can the Minister tell me whether any response has been received from the South Australian Government? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service noted that unemployment in Canada has risen to 6.7 per cent? Can he say whether this is symptomatic of a world unemployment increase? Is he also able to say whether the composition of the Canadian economy, and problems asssociated with it, can be compared to the position in Australia? 
I support the motion. I have had a continuing interest in the welfare of people in the outback, in the remote areas of South Australia and other States of the Commonwealth. In fact I referred to this in my recent speech on the Budget. It seems to me that the responsibility for education rests largely upon the States. In the course of my speech on the Budget 1 mentioned this to the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who is in charge of the House at the moment, and said that I thought the Commonwealth should take more interest in people in the remote areas of Australia. The  Chairman  of the Senate 
Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts,  Senator Davidson,  has shown an interest in this matter. He led a delegation from Bourke to meet the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on this very subject. It seems quite ironical that  Senator Douglas  McClelland has not received similar delegations. This seems to indicate that people in remote areas of South Australia have confidence in Government supporters in this place. 
I have made representations to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  on many occasions, the last occasion being in respect of the 1971-72 Budget. I ask him to pay some regard to the plight of people living in remote areas and to give special additional consideration to expenses incurred by parents in sending children to schools in centres which are remote front their homes. Although the Government did not make special provision in this respect it did at least increase taxation allowances for education. I renewed my plea as a result of representations from the Port Augusta Outback Parents Committee and the Far Northern Association at Leigh Creek with respect to this matter. I raised it with the Minister for Education and Science in January this year and asked again that special attention be given to the matter. I know that the Minister is sympathetic to the plight of these people and he has indicated this on many occasions. In addition he demonstrated in the recent Budget his interest in education. In the Budget the Government provided an additional $200m for State governments to spend in this field of education. 
I believe that some responsibility for this problem must fall on State governments. I know that the Outback Parents Committee at Port Augusta has made repeated representations to the present South Australian Labor Government with regard to this matter and I know that on one occasion  Mr Hudson,  who is the Minister of Education in that State, treated them rather casually, so much so that members of the deputation were rather upset about the way he treated them on that occasion. However, I was pleased to see in the speech made recently by the South Australian Governor that the State Government is giving recognition to the need to help people in outback areas. Unfortunately there is no evidence in the present 
Budget of the South Australian Labor Government to indicate that it intends to provide funds for these people. I have been approached by many people in South Australia, the latest being by people living in the Yunta area in the north-eastern part of that State. They asked me, at very short notice last Saturday, to attend a meeting at Yunta where a branch of the Association is being formed in order that they may be able to make representations to the meeting at Bourke, to which  Senator Douglas  McClelland referred, at some time in the near future. People in these remote areas deserve some consideration. It may well be that referring this matter to a Senate committee is the appropriate way to handle it. I believe that we must pay attention to the need to consult with State governments about this matter. 
When outback children are mentioned people immediately think of station owners and farmers. However, I must remind honourable senators that other people in remote areas are involved. I know that people who work on the Commonwealth Railways, such as fettlers in remote areas who service the Trans-Australian Railway, face problems in educating their children. There are the station hands who support rural industry in these remote areas, without whose assistance businesses would be in a sorry state. The Senate must pay some regard to this matter, and for that reason I believe we should support the motion to refer the matter to the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. We, as the Senate, have a tremendous responsibility to collate information that will prove to be of some use in making a realistic assessment of the plight of these people. Perhaps referring this matter to the Senate Standing Committee is the best way to provide accurate information on this matter to the Commonwealth Government and to the State governments. I support the motion. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport inform the Senate whether problems associated with the standardisation of the Adelaide-Port Pirie rail link have been overcome and when a start on this important project can be expected? 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, ls the Minister aware of the concern that has been expressed and is being expressed by Australian citizens that individuals with criminal records have been admitted to Australia? Can he say what screening process is adopted by immigration authorities in countries such as Yugoslavia with regard to ensuring that prospective migrants do not have criminal records? In view of the recent terrorist atrocities in Sydney, what additional measures does the Government propose to take with respect to future Yugoslav migrants? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the increasing public interest in adopting an Australian national anthem for use by Australians at functions such as the Olympic Games, where it is desirable to preserve an Australian identity, will the Government sponsor a national competition designed to produce such an anthem? ls the Minister aware of the interest of some Australians in retaining the present national anthem for use only in the presence of the Queen, members of the Royal Family or representatives of the Queen? 
I was disappointed to hear  Senator Cavanagh  refer to my colleague  Senator Davidson  in the way that he did. I was interested to hear him make reference to Ipec Australia Ltd and the sale of aircraft belonging to Jetair Australia Ltd. He is very interested in transport matters. I recall that not long ago he made reference to the business venture that is being contemplated by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and  Sir Peter  Abeles of Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd. I thought that  Senator Cavanagh's  speech was an astute speech. He said that he was not in favour of the partnership, no doubt because he realised that the effort of the ACTU with regard to the running of Bourke's store was a lamentable example of business ineptitude. I can understand his interest in the TNT-ACTU merger. 
I would like to take the opportunity to say something on income tax matters. It is time that the people of Australia realised what income tax would mean if the Australian Labor Party ever came to govern ment in this country. The best description of this appeared in an editorial in the Australian' of 24th August. I would like to read this article because I believe the editorial sums up pretty well what the people of Australia must contemplate. The editorial is headed: 'Whitlam must explain tax policy.' I shall read to the Senate what is contained in this article because of what  Senator Gietzelt  said in regard to the taxation policies of this Government which has led this country to prosperity over a long period of time, lt has led the country to a stage where most of the working people of Australia can afford not only one motor car but two of them. I believe that we are enjoying at this stage a degree of prosperity comparable with that of any other country. It is time that we took a bit of notice of what is said in this editorial which I believe sums up the situation. The editorial states:  lt is now clear that the most embarrassing question anyone can ask  Mr '.Whitlam  during the election campaign will be whether he is prepared to guarantee not to raise taxes if Labor wins office. The Budget debate so far has been remarkable for a crushing silence from.  Mr 'Whitlam  on this point, lt is all very well -for  Mr Whitlam  to claim  that the Budget's average1 10 per cent tax reduction is not really a reduction at all but, in terms of effect on pockets, merely a slowing down in the rale of tax increases. In the context of the promises of extra Government spending he has made, and of the threats of slashing income tax deductions and tightening up the tax system that both he and  Mr Crean  the ALP's shadow Treasurer, have made in the past few months, this attack becomes specious. If  Mr Whitlam  is elected to office and keeps all his promises, he will have to find finance for boosting pensions to 25 per cent of average earnings; ending the means test; handing out an immediate J 1 00m to pensioners and unemployed; reducing sales lax; raising unemployment benefits; extra, spending on schools and hospitals; pre-school education; free university education; a national ipsurar.ee scheme; and regenerating urban public transport. The inescapable conclusion is that  Mr Whitlam  will not be cutting income lax; he will be raising it, by 10 per cent or even more. 
I must remark that what this editorial said is very accurate. The editorial posed the question: 'From where is the money going to come?' 
Opposition Senators - Oh! 
Obviously members of the Australian Labor Party are very sensitive on this matter. They talk about this Government's policy with regard to income tax. but when we start pointing out one or two home truths in regard to Labor's policy they scream like a mob of stuck pigs. The editorial went on: 
In the absence of any explanation from  Mr Whitlam  to the contrary- and the screams that come from Opposition Senators -  it can only be assumed that he would have to finance his promises by increasing the tax burden on the middle class - the group which makes more than the average wage of $98 a week, . . . 
I will not read any more because it is an embarrassment . to honourable senators opposite. 
I would like to refer to an interview which took place on the Channel 9 programme 'A Current Affair' with Mike Willesee on Monday of this week. During this programme the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was interviewed. During the interview  Mr Willesee  said: 
If the Labor Party can't win now why should it ever expect it can win? 

 Mr Whitlam replied: 
It's hard to soy why it should win in other circumstances if it can't win now I'll grant you that. I don't believe hi over dramatising these issues Now or Never  yes  I think that's too dramatic. 
He was referring to the fact that  Mr Willesee  said it is now or never as far as the Labor Party is concerned. 
Yes, it is time. That is right. That is what had  Mr Whitlam  so upset.  Mr Willesee  asked: 
As a leader In personal terms Now or Never. 

 Mr Whitlam replied: 
Oh, no. No. I mean I suppose I'm the only leader in the Federal Parliament of any of the parties who could remain leader if his party didn't win. 
I doubt very much whether that would be a fair statement. However, let us go on to the reference  Mr Whitlam  made to taxation. Of course, he probably read the editorial in the 'Australian', which I have just quoted to the Senate, a few days before and felt that he ought to refute what was contained in that article.  Mr Willesee  said: 
Well of course the greatest single impact you can have on anybody is to alter the taxation structure firstly the income tax structure. Are you going to do that? 

 Mr Whitlam replied: 
Well let me get this clear first the Commonwealth's revenue, that's it's taxation income, dou bles every 7 years so if you're suggesting that there's going to be any, increase in taxation rates I can say to you flatly and directly no. 
What about re-structuring. 

 Mr Whitlam replied: 
Well the whole. Well this involves really what concessions you make in order to reduce the Commonwealth's income or to reduce the amount which the Commonwealth takes from various people, what concessions you make, what exemptions you give and very obviously we would be reducing the tax that people on the lowest incomes paid. 
It is.  Mr Willesee  then asked: 
Does that mean you'll increase the tax on the higher incomes. 

 Mr Whitlam said: 
No it doesn't. You do not increase the rates of tax on anyone. As I say the revenue, since what was it this year, the Commonwealth's expenditure's about ten thousand million. Last election year it was seven thousand million before that it was a bit over five thousand million. 
Here is the Leader of the Opposition saying that he will lower income tax and that everything in the garden will be lovely. But the people of Australia just wonder when they hear of some of the promises that the Labor Party has made already, such as on social services and the introduction of the Labor Party's national superannuation scheme. What will this mean in terms of a net cost increase? It will amount to a mere $435m. 
Those are the words that have flown from the mouth of your shadow minister on many occasions. 
We then go on to the proposal for a free medical service staffed by salaried doctors and a free national hospital service based on the public ward standard which would cost a mere $5 20m more than what we are committed for at this time. I could go on and talk about education. The Labor Party makes flamboyant promises in regard to education which would cost $546m more than we are committed to at the moment. When talking about our Government's policy, it should be remembered that it has been responsible with regard to income tax and in every other respect. I wonder when I read these figures what would happen if the Labor Party ever took over the Treasury bench. I am quite sure that the people of Australia would regret that to their dying days. I am sure that that unhappy event would reduce their standards of living in a way that is dreadful to contemplate. 
I would like to conclude my remarks by referring to a matter that I heard on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio programme 'PM' last Friday. I was driving home from my office and I listened to this programme as I frequently do. I find that the programme is most interesting with respect to current affairs. A young man was being interviewed who was a high school boy from a Victorian high school. He was interviewed because he was organising a strike in that school. Apparently the reason was that freedom of speech had been put in doubt in that school. Someone had apparently made some reference to the principal of that school and obviously had been reprimanded. This had excited the attention of the student action group. I was interested to hear the next question put to this young boy. He was asked whether the trade union movement was interested or encouraging this strike. He made no reply. He was asked further whether the Australian Communist Party was interested in the strike. He said that this group had been encouraged by the Australian Communist Party by its advertising the strike in its newspapers. . I felt that this was rather significant, because in the education field we are finding that there is agitation amongst young people. I believe that this is a sinister threat to the young minds of Australian school children. I think that we had evidence today that in Australia other strikes are encouraged by the Communist Party. I understand also that there are other leftist elements involved in that regrettable incident. 
I conclude by suggesting to the people of Australia that when we consider taxation we have to admit, as a government that this is a matter for review. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has taken a lot of trouble in selecting a committee which is of a very high calibre to look at the complete taxation structure in Australia, something that I believe is overdue. The need has been recognised and I am sure that although it will take some time to achieve the complete results the Government can look forward to  a  much more effective taxation method in the future. It will only serve to benefit the people of Australia and continue the element of prosperity that has prevailed in this country over the last 23 years. 
I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service a question which is supplementary to the question asked by  Senator Lawrie  relating to the strikes held by high school students yesterday in defiance of authority within the schools. Is the Minister aware that a high school student organiser of a strike at a Victorian high school stated on the 'PM' programme last Friday that the student action group had the support of the Australian Communist Party and the Trotskyites? ls he also aware that a sympathetic high school strike conducted in South Australia had the support of the Young Labor Association and the Socialist Left Youth Alliance as well as of the Communist Party? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Firstly, is it a fact that the Minister is considering a restructuring of the Commonwealth Police and an alteration in training techniques to enable greater expertise in dealing with the increasing responsibilities of the force? Secondly, in the restructuring of the Commonwealth Police will the Minister give urgent consideration to the establishment of a special squad whose main function would be to co-ordinate national investigations of Commonwealth significance and to deal with matters such as the planning of ways and means to stamp out terrorist activities in Australia? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, is supplementary to the question asked by  Senator Carrick.  Has the Minister seen Press statements indicating that  a  clothing factory at Dee Why in New South Wales will be forced to close due to inability to obtain personnel? Is he aware that this reported statement indicated that attempts over the last 2 or 3 years have failed to obtain 400 women machinists and that there are only 200 working there at the present time? Is it a fact that frequently employers who advertise that work is available find that certain positions are hard to fill due to the job selectivity of those applying for employment? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-72, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Primary and pre-school at Tennant Creek, Northern Territory. 
Power station at Tennant Creek, Northern Territory. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. My question highlights a question asked yesterday by  Senator Negus  which indicated the need to exercise some national control over the supply of explosives. I ask the Minister whether he has noticed an article in today's issue of the 'Australian' which is headed 'How to Make a Letter Bomb' and which draws attention to a recipe complete with ingredients that was set out in 4 para graphs of a weekly magazine. Can the Minister say whether the Government has any power to prevent the publication of such information which could result in dangerous experimentation by irresponsible people? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I refer to the slow progress in the planning associated with the Adelaide - Port Pirie standardised rail link. Is it a fact that the main hold up in this project is due to the indecision of the State Government with regard to the routing of metropolitan lines to service the main industrial areas? In the interest of providing employment in South Australia, can the Minister give me any reason why work could not proceed immediately on the main trunk line from Adelaide to Port Pirie, the planning of which I understand has been completed? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether it is a fact that the major airline operators are finding it uneconomic to service certain intrastate routes in South Australia. Is he aware that in particular the service to Leigh Creek has been drastically reduced in recent months? In relation to Leigh Creek is the Minister aware that a third level airline would be able to provide a daily service? Will he give serious consideration to recommending that this line be taken over so that the residents will be given a much more satisfactory freight and passenger service? 
In view of the apparent intention of the French Government to continue atmospheric H-bomb tests in the Pacific next year, will the Minister for Foreign Affairs say whether it is a fact that the Australian Government has attracted the support of 15 other Pacific countries in order to mount a further campaign against these tests? Will he say also whether this campaign will be mounted in the current session of the United Nations? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Minister aware that payroll tax is contributing to serious economic problems in many small industries in South Australia, and no doubt in Australia generally? One such company in Adelaide had to find $18,000 for this purpose during the last financial year, which contributed to a financial loss by that company. Does the Minister realise that this is forcing some businesses to retrench employees? Will the Minister ask the Treasurer to include an examination of this form of taxation in the overall review of the tax structure? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONPayroll tax is now a State tax, and the terms of reference of the committee of inquiry into taxation do not extend to making recommendations about State taxes. The committee has a large job to do in covering Commonwealth taxation, and it is important for the committee to proceed with that task as expeditiously as possible, and by common consent everybody concurs in that. However, I should add that in order to improve the expenditure commitment of State governments revenue would need to be raised in one way or another, and merely to reduce payroll tax, or any other form of tax for that matter, would not mean that some other impost would not necessarily replace it. Therefore, it seems to be putting the wrong slant on the question to suggest that the financial position of particular companies must be laid at the feet of the taxation system. We all understand the procedures of government. We all know the budgetary principles that apply, and judgments have to be made in good faith by governments of all persuasions as to how they will raise their revenue. The decision in this field has to be made by the State governments. 
 I am happy to support these measures, particularly the one related to the assessment of duties upon the estates of deceased persons. I believe that this is a form of taxation which borders on the iniquitous. I have mentioned this on several occasions since I have been in this place.  Senator Guilfoyle  reminded me earlier that the provisions of the Bill increasing the exemption from $20,000 to $40,000 are realistic because $40,000 would cover the matrimonial home, the car, and the usual assets amassed in a workingman's home during his lifetime. The Australian Labor Party, of course, sees this only as a tax to deprive the family of a deceased person of its rightful assets - Labor Party members are always talking about redistribution of wealth - but we see this Bill as a means of protecting the assets of the family unit. I have been in the position on numerous occasions of having to make representations to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in the imposition of this duty on rural estates. I recall that some years ago when I was in another place that I had to make representations on behalf of a family that was asked to pay an amount of $250,000 on a rural property estate in South Australia. The nearest I could get to what 1 considered to be a reasonable attitude was the granting to these people by the Government of time to pay this amount. More recently since I came into the Senate a family in South Australia was faced with a bill of $175,000 with respect to an estate in a South Australian rural area. This presented the family with the problem of having to sell a property in order to pay this amount. 
The Government's recognition of the problem is evident in the Bill before the Senate at this time and the Bill goes some way towards meeting this problem. I was happy that the Treasurer announced that the whole taxation structure in Australia was to be reviewed and that he had appointed a committee to look into it. Death duties are an item which would come under that committee's terms of reference. I am convinced - and here I agree with previous speakers - that this form of taxation ought to be abolished in its entirity I support the proposals of the Democratic Labor Party but suggest that this is not entirely the prerogative of the DLP although it introduced that- 
That is quite correct but this has always been in the minds of many honourable senators on this side of the House. I support the motion which has been moved by the DLP. I call that  Senator Davidson  on 7th October 1971 referred this particular matter to the Senate Standing Committee on finance and Government Operations. That was an indication of how this side of the House has supported the concept behind the DLP's amendment.  1  appreciate the interjections from the DLP senators. I am trying to demonstrate how much we on this side of the chamber agree with what has been proposed by the DLP tonight. I find it quite unusual for the Australian Labor Party to be supporting the Government on this measure because after all the Labor Party was responsible for introducing this form of taxation to the Australian people. I well know why it brought in this particular measure. It was directing this venomous tax at the 6 per cent of Australian taxpayers who have since been paying 40 per cent of the revenue from it. I refer to those people in the rural areas of this country. This measure is a step in the right direction arid. I wholeheartedly support it. I put my full support behind the DLP's amendment arid commend this Bill to the Senate. ' 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. In answering the question put to him by the Leader of the Opposition the Minister stated that gastroenteritis was a major cause of infant mortality among Aborigines. Can the Minister say whether this disease is more prevalent in the warmer areas of Australia in which the majority of Aborigines live? Can he say whether the incidence of infant mortality among Europeans also is higher in such areas compared with other places in Australia which experience a more temperate climate? 
During the time that I have administered the Health portfolio I have always been very careful about expressing medical opinions. I am Minister for Health in the administrative sense and 1 am very aware of the impropriety of giving judgments without reference to my medical advisers. All I can say to the honourable senator is that I will get a precise answer and will put it down. I have always had an understanding of the situation as was mentioned by the honourable senator but I must not be taken as saying that in categorical terms because it would be improper to do so. I certainly will gat a proper answer from my medical advisers on the suggestion put by the honourable senator. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware of the high level of unemployment at Port Pirie, in South Australia? In view of this will the Minister recommend to the Government that Commonwealth Railways be authorised to use concrete sleepers to replace the sleepers on the railway between Port Augusta and Port Pirie and also for use in future railway projects in South Australia and the Northern Territory so that a substantial industry can be established in the north Spencer Gulf area? 
My question is  directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the relative costs involved in providing television programmes of Australian and overseas content? How do Australian programme ratings compare with those of overseas programmes? Is the Minister aware of the financial difficulties being experienced by some television stations in maintaining the prescribed 50 per cent content of Australian programmes? In view of the pressures to increase the Australian content, will the Government consider granting a subsidy to television companies to enable them to provide additional Australian programmes? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Pub lic Works Committee Act 1969-1972, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works:  14l/32R  Runway and associated airport works at Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea; 
Development of Nadzab Airport, Papua New Guinea. 
1 rise for a few moments to comment on the histrionics that we have witnessed from  Senator Milliner.  I believe that the expression 'humanitarian' coming from the Opposition is quite dishonest, because this form of taxation was introduced by the Australian Labor Party. It was introduced for a specific reason, that is, to redistribute the wealth of those people who would be affected by this form of taxation. This measure discriminated against a very small section of the Australian people. In the last 23 years, the wealth of Australia has grown to the degree where moderate estates in today's terms are now affected by this tax. This fact has been recognised by the Government in the Bill that is now before the Committee. The Government has seen fit to recognise that there are people with modest estates who are affected in this way. 
Last week, Government senators in support of the Australian Democratic Labor Party gave a clear and concise warning or instruction to the Government that it should look at the question of estate duties with the object of abolishing them completely at the first possible opportunity. But the Opposition very conveniently voted against that proposal. I believe that the action of the Opposition tonight is a demonstration of the double standards of the Australian Labor Party in that it is supporting this amendment fully to try to gain some electoral appeal. I support what  Senator Withers  and  Senator Byrne  said earlier; our aim here should be the complete abolition of estate duty. 
I have always supported the principles that have been expounded by  Senator Negus.  I commend him for the genuine feelings which motivate him and which have led to this amendment being moved by him. But I do suggest that the Committee ought to look clearly and the Opposition should consider carefully the comp'ete abolition of this tax which was introduced by the Australian Labor Party. I leave my remarks at that and suggest that we should devote our attention to attaining that end. 

 Mr Deputy President, I crave the silence of the chamber before I make my speech. I have listened with reverence to honourable senators opposite and I expect them to listen to me without interjecting. I should like to say how proud I am to stand up and support the Bill that is before the Senate. I refer to the States Grants (Schools) Bill which provides an additional amount of $21 5m to be spent by the States and to be divided between govern ment and non-government schools. I totally reject the amendment that has been proposed by the Opposition. 
When I look at the amendment .1 wonder whether it represents Australian Labor Party policy according to  Mr Beazley,  whether it is ALP policy according to  Mr Whitlam  or whether it is ALP policy according to  Senator Murphy.  Having looked at the amendment, 1 believe that it is probably ALP policy according to  Senator Murphy.  I wonder just what  Mr Beazley  and  Mr Whitlam  would say about the amendment that is before the Senate tonight. Undoubtedly, the Labor Party has not one policy on education, not 2 policies on education, but 3 policies on education, because those 3 people disagree with the fundamental policy that was served up by the conference that was held recently on an island not far from this continent. 
I suggest that the Labor Party is quite confusing in its attitude to education. J was quite appalled tonight when I heard my friend  Senator Mulvihill,  for whom I have quite a regard, accusing my colleague  Senator Carrick  of smearing the Public Service. Yet in this Senate chamber this morning I heard members of the Australian Labor Party spend 50 per cent of question time, using the precious time of the Senate, attempting to cast doubts on the credibility of the Government over the matter involving Jetair Australia Ltd. In doing so they were casting doubts on the credibility of the Public Service. 1 believe that it was quite unfair of the Opposition to suggest that  Senator Carrick  was behaving in an improper manner in the Senate. 
It is incredible that members of the Australian Labor Party should suggest hypocritically in this place that we should apply some form of means test to education when they announce in all sincerity that they would apply a means test on social service benefits. I believe that they are right in wanting to abolish the means test and I would support the ALP in its policy of abolishing the means test with regard to social services. But it is quite incredible and incomprehensible that members of that Party should advocate something different with respect to education. I should like to draw to the attention of the Senate the 
Incredible attitude to education adopted by the South Australian Labor Government. 
The honourable senator should stop his cackling. I should like to draw attention to the South Australian position at the moment with respect to education. At present in South Australia ail independent primary schools receive a per capita across the board payment of $10 a year and ali independent secondary schools receive a per capita across the board payment of $20 a year. The neediest primary schools have been allocated a special additional grant ranging from $24 in what is known as category A schools to $10 in category D schools. The effect of this is that the biggest per capita grant received by an independent primary school in South Australia ls $34 a year. Let us consider what happens in New South Wales. In that State the State Government provides per capita grants of $50 a year to independent primary schools. The per capita grant to independent primary schools in Victoria is $40 a year and in Queensland it is $45 a year. I remind the Senate that those States are under Liberal and Country Party governments. Western Australia is lagging a little behind the field with per capita grants of $30 a year, and in Tasmania the grant is $24 a year. 
I can understand that the honourable senator's feathers could be ruffled on this occasion. The effect of what I have said is that 3 States in which there are Liberal and Country Party governments provide bigger per capita grants to independent primary schools than the maximum grant that is available in South Australia under its needs system. I can understand honourable senators opposite feeling a little embarrassed by a statement of this kind. 1 return to the situation in South Australia. I know that it is very painful for the Opposition to listen to the facts that I am presenting, but I should like to draw attention to the allocations that were made to the States from loan funds in February this year. 
New South Wales received an allocation of $10,180,000 from loan funds and it provided from its own resources no less than $2m for the provision of schools and for other educational purposes. How much did Victoria receive of these funds? It received $8,170,000 and it provided $2. 5m for schools. Queensland received $4,040,000 and provided $2,145,000. I come now to the State Labor Government of South Australia. In February South Australia was provided with additional funds from its allocation amounting to $4,390,000, but how much did it provide for schools? The amount was $400,000. I believe that it is significant to compare what happened under the Labor Government in South Australia with what happened under the Liberal and Country Party governments of New South Wales and Victoria. But, of course, in South Australia the State Government's conscience was pricked and it became very sensitive, as a result of which it provided another $300,000 for maintenance of schools in that State. It is quite incredible that  Mr Hudson,  who is the Minister of Education in South Australia, should accuse tha Commonwealth Government of disregarding educational needs in Australia when his Government adopts such an irresponsible attitude, although in February the Commonwealth Government provided the State with so much more money in the distribution of loan funds. The State Minister of Education has revealed his disregard on other occasions. In this place it was not so long ago that we discussed the education of outback children. A friend of mine told me that as a member of a deputation he approached the Minister of Education in South Australia with regard to this critical problem. 
My friend happened to be a member of the Port Augusta Outback Parents Committee. He went along to the Minister in a very sincere and, 1 may say, humble way to request the South Australian Government to devote more money to the education of outback children in South Australia. Are honourable senators aware of what the Minister said to these people? I have only my friend's statement to support this, but according to him the Minister said: 'If we gave you extra money for the education of the outback children you would probably spend it on booze.' What an attitude for a Minister of a State government to adopt with a deputation. I remind honourable senators that these people- 
That is what he said. 
I have a point of order. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - Order!  Senator Willesee  is speaking to the point of order. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order! 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTI think this is a point of order to your point of order. 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any Member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament, or against any Statute unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal, and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
I am serious in what I am going to say because I personally know  Mr Hudson  who is the Minister of Education in South Australia.  Mr Hudson  is well known in South Australia. 
I claim that 1 have been misrepresented. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - No, you cannot do that. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! I have been asked to rule on this point of order. I do not consider that any of the argument put by  Senator Bishop  about his personal relationship with the person mentioned by  Senator Jessop  comes into consideration in this matter. Standing order 418 specifically states: 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any Member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament. . . 
I do not think J need to go any further than that. The standing order also states: 
. all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
I uphold the point of order. I ask  Senator Jessop  to withdraw his remarks in relation to the South Australian Minister of Education. 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  I respect your point of view. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTIt is not my point of view. I have ruled on a point of order based on the Standing Orders. That is my ruling. 
Very well, I withdraw and defer to your ruling. 
 I can name him. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Jessop,  continue your address. 
I can produce proof too, if I have to do so. 
I have supported the Labor Party on occasions. But let me return to the position in South Australia and disregard the diversive strategy of the Opposition which is obviously upset by my remarks. If the $400,000 being made available to non-government primary schools on a needs basis in 1972 is averaged over every school it would be equivalent to an extra $18 a head, making a total of $28 per capita. There are 141 non-government primary schools in South Australia and 138 of them answered the questionnaire that was circulated about the need for special grants. Of that number 22 schools received $24 a head, 57 received $20 a head, 43 received $15 a head and 16 received $10 a head. 
 Senator Cavanagh  asks about prestige schools. Members of the Opposition ought to be very careful when talking about prestige. I believe that the Government has adopted a reasonable attitude to the allocation of funds for these schools. 
That is right. I recall that the Premier of South Australia, for example, went to St Peters College. I point out to  Senator Cavanagh  that plenty of people on the Opposition side went to independent schools. No doubt in conscience they think that what they are promoting in association with the Australian Labor Party is against their own principles because they have benefited by the Christian upbringing and education afforded to them as a result of their parents' decision to send them to an independent school. I believe in what  Senator Kane  said about this matter - that it is the democratic right of every person in Australia to send his child to the school of his choice. 
That is right. However, let us get on with the debate. I can understand that the feathers of members of the Opposition will be ruffled about this matter. When we consider such things as textbook allowances, interest subsidy, transport and scholarship payments to the respective States, we find that Western Australia provides $40.3 per student, New South Wales $22.5 per student, Tasmania $22.4 per student- 
Yes. That is a very good result for Western Australia no doubt due to the inspiration of the previous Government. South Australia is the lowest on the list. It provides $15.8 per student. 1 recognise that the Australian Labor Party is sensitive about our attitude to education because it is clear that it is a most just attitude to both independent and government schools. I support the Bill and commend it to the Senate. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. In the consultations held so far between the Commonwealth and the States relating to the Constitution have local government bodies been involved? If not, does the Government intend inviting local government bodies to take part in future discussions related to constitutional reform? 
My question, addressed to the Minster representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is supplementary to several questions asked by honourable senators opposite. I think that it is appropriate in the current racing season. Did the Minister notice a cartoon in the Canberra Times' last Friday depicting the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  flogging a dying horse named Jetair? 
 I refer to the matter about which  Senator Bishop  spoke. I recall  that  on Thursday, as he said and as he real accurately from Hansard, 1 used a phrase describing the attitude of the South Australian Minister of Education on the occasion of a deputation of people from the Stockowners Association of South Australia and the Outback Parents Club. Last Thursday 1 felt that the comments made by honourable senators opposite cast doubts upon my integrity. I believe that now I should give the Senate the basis ot the statement that I made. 1 did recall that a friend of mine mentioned this incident. Subsequently he made a report to  the  Stockowners Association of South Australia. That followed the deputation to the State Minister on 23rd June. Perhaps I might read the pertinent parts ot the report. I understand that the report was made in the presence of members of the Press. 
 Yes, I will do that.  Senator Bishop  has already given the gentleman some publicity by mentioning his name.  Mr M.  I. McTaggart presented a report on the deputation to the Minister of Education on 23rd June 1971 seeking financial assistance for outback children doing correspondence lessons. The report states the names of the other members of the delegation. They were  Mr Geddes  and  Mr Dean  Kelly.  Mr Grant  Heaslip apologised because he was delayed by bad weather and was unable to attend. The report states: 
Although we stayed about  H  hours and the problem was discussed  throroughly  we did not receive much sympathy. 
Very early in the interview the Minister stated that he had no sympathy al all for assistance foi governesses, mainly because those who could afford governesses were nol the ones who most required help. 
We accepted this point and then requested an allowance to families of non-attendance school children similar to the allowance of $200 per year in Western Australia. 
I understand that at that point the delegation referred to the fact that not only children of station owners but many children of station hands and Commonwealth Railways fettlers were encountering the same problem. The report continues: 
The Minister replied that he could not be sure that such an allowance would go towards education, and thought that in some cases it more likely that it would be spent on 'booze'. 
That was the reference that I had in mind when 1 made my statement. I thought it was an incredible statement for any member of Parliament, particularly a Minister, to make in the presence of such a deputation. That is why I drew attention to it at that time. The report coninues 
In reply to this we suggested that it could be paid only to those who passed their exams,  and  so afford an encouragement to help education. The answer was that this would be too difficult to implement. 
The next request was an increase in living away from home allowance, particularly for primary students who receive very little at the moment. The Minister replied that where parents were conscientious they would complete primary education and then possibly living away help was required to help brighter children, but that there is now a reasonable allowance for secondary students. 
The Minister said that they would not start hostels similar to those in other States, and so we asked if he could give any assistance at all to outback children and received no sympathy. The question of the new side band radios, which will shortly be compulsory, was raised and the Minister said that he had not investigated that, and it may be a possibility for assistance. 
Since the meeting I made a similar report to the mothers on The School of the Air, who were incensed by the Minister's lack of consideration. 
That report was presented at the stockowners meeting. I have since spoken with another member of the deputation who remembers the statement being made. It was on that basis that I used that particular phrase. I do not think the word 'booze' is offensive. I used it merely to express my view that members of Parliament or Ministers should not use that kind of term when dealing with a deputation of this type. 
I believe that  Senator Cavanagh,  during the course of his remarks, cast doubts again upon my integrity. In fact, subsequently he admitted that he had said certain things with reference to me that might have to be corrected. I would not have pursued this matter at all had it not been for the fact that doubts had been cast on my credibility in the first place. I was quite prepared to let the matter go as it was on Thursday, when I had withdrawn my remarks. Unfortunately,  Senator Bishop  chose to reintroduce the matter and for that reason I had to produce the document on which I based my statement. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport which is supplementary to other questions that have been asked about concrete sleepers. Is the Minister aware that there is a world trend towards the use of concrete sleepers for railway construction? Is he also aware that the recently released report of the Bureau of Transport Economics on the use of concrete and timber sleepers in railway construction and maintenance indicated that the average life of concrete sleepers is 50 years and pointed out that the British railway authorities have stated that it is becoming increasingly apparent that the life of such sleepers could even be extended to 100 years? Is it a fact that the life of timber sleepers without base plates is 18 years and with base plates an average of 20 years? Is it also a fact that the economics of installation and maintenance are strongly in favour of concrete sleepers? 
 I take this opportunity to support the motion moved by the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  It has been my experience in this place that question time has been used to the great advantage of the Opposition. In fact, as the Minister said on another occasion, the number of questions asked in this chamber exceeds the number asked in another place. This is a marked- 
1 am not suggesting that. I am merely saying that it is an indication that the  President  and the Government respect the privilege and right of honourable senators opposite to ask questions. Invariably we find that at question time the Opposition has far more opportunities to ask questions than we have on this side of the House. We concede that it is the right of honourable senators opposite to ask questions. Certainly some answers that are given could be substantially shortened, and that point was taken by the Leader of the Government in the Senate a few moments ago. There is another matter that always irritates me but it is probably a matter of tradition which I know little about. Honourable senators are subjected to the reading of detailed questions that have been placed on the notice paper, mainly by honourable senators opposite, and to the reading of the long detailed answers which are required by those questions. I can see no reason why this system should continue and I am one who would advocate that all questions on notice be incorporated without any reading at all. I support the motion moved by the Minister. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Has the Minister seen a Press statement in which reference was made to the spending of an additional $3m on timber sleepers for use on Commonwealth Railways projects? Has he also noted that reference was made to a report by W. D. Scott and Co., a firm of management consultants, on unemployment in Western Australia and South Australia? Did he notice that if the whole timber industry closed in the Manjimup area about 200 people would lose their jobs, and that unemployment in the Spencer Gulf towns of Port Pirie, Port Augusta and Whyalla in South Australia is approaching 1,000? Bearing in mind the considerable economic and technical arguments in favour of concrete sleepers and the social implications related to the more critical unemployment situation in the Spencer Gulf area of South Australia, will the Government give favourable consideration to reviewing the decision on concrete sleepers so that Commonwealth Railways might use these sleepers on all future railway projects? 
Is the Minister for Health aware of a statement published in the Press during the recent visit of  Mr  Detwiller,  a Canadian authority on health care, who introduced the Canadian health scheme in the 1950s? Did the Minister note that, according to this gentleman, the involvement of the individual by paying the hospital and the doctor helps keep costs of a medical scheme down and that any proposed changes to Australia's voluntary system should be approached carefully? Is it a fact that countries such as Canada which have government sponsored health schemes are experiencing extreme financial difficulties due to over utilisation? Does the private study of the Australian health care system by  Mr Detwiller  indicate that Canada is contemplating a change to the voluntary health scheme at present operating in that country? 
I believe that this Bill has been brought before the Parliament after a considerable, amount of careful thought and with the full support and encouragement of the. back bench of this side of the chamber. What has happened in Australia over the years is quite clear to us all. The reasons why the urban sprawl has occurred mainly on the eastern seaboard of this country are quite apparent. Obviously the main reason is that the facilities and resources were there and that is why the population sprawl occurred. Of course we recognise this. In order to overcome the problem there must be the greatest possible cooperation between governments at al] levels in attacking it on a national basis. I believe that this Bill provides the formula for just doing that. 
Decentralisation is a subject that has been of great interest to me ever since I began my political career. I recall that very early in this career I made a speech about the need for developing regional centres such as the northern Spencer Gulf area in South Australia and other parts of Australia that had a reason to be developed.  Senator Webster  drew attention to this in his speech. He said that there are areas in Victoria that have reason to be, developed. One has to have a basic commodity, one has to have the basic resources available and one has to have the transport available in order to dispose of those resources. For that reason it is necessary for governments at all levels to take a good look at this problem and to act as a team in order to promote regional development. 
Regional development has been the subject of a great deal of comment in recent times in South Australia because the South Australian State Government has chosen to develop an area in the vicinity of Murray Bridge which is situated about 50 to 60 miles from Adelaide. This may well be a good proposition. But 1 believe that in order for regional development to be completely successful one should look al an area that is in excess of .1.00 miles from a capital city. The northern Spencer Gulf area of South Australia contains the large towns of Port Augusta, Whyalla and Port Pirie. Here we have an ideal situation because this area is connected by rail to other parts of Australia. However, the standardisation link between Crystal Brook and Adelaide has to be tidied up before rail transportation from this area is completely efficient. I hope that in the near future the State Government will recognise the need to overcome its problems in the metropolitan area - perhaps the siting of a railway station or whatever the problems arc - so that this line can be completed very quickly. 
An adequate transport system is an essential ingredient as far as regional development is concerned. Another requirement is sufficient natural resources. I submit that the Spencer Gulf area of South Australia has natural resources that would justify the establishment, for example, of a petrochemical industry. Natural gas can be provided by a pipeline about 30 miles from Port Augusta. Port Augusta is a power generating centre. Vast quantities of gypsum can be found to the north of the Spencer Gulf area. I believe that a petrochemical industry somewhere in the northern Spencer Gulf region would be a viable proposition. Vast salt leases are available in that area as well. I think that all of these factors go hand in hand. In my view, the local government authorities, the State Government of South Australia and the Commonwealth ought to look at the possibility of developing that part of South Australia. There are other areas in South Australia which could be considered. For example. Mount Gambier, Millicent and Port Lincoln all have something to offer in this regard. 
I would like to comment on what  Senator Byrne  said about transport and the need to rationalise transport costs. I have thought for a long time that it would be a good proposition for the Commonwealth Government to pay regard to the possibility of taking over the interstate railway systems. I am of the opinion that if that were done the Commonwealth could do something about rationalising transport costs to all parts of Australia. 
I am not a centralist, senator. But 1 believe that any State government would agree that railways are costly. 1 am quite sure that the proposition that the States should retain the responsibility for intrastate and urban transport whilst the Commonwealth handles national transport is a sensible one. The costs that the States would be saved in regard to servicing interstate railways could be well put to increasing the efficiency of public transport in the metropolitan areas. Urban transport of course, is a problem that has to be solved within the very near future. I feel sure that urban transport is one of the most significant problems facing the metropolitan areas of our cities today. Recently I noticed in Adelaide that the South Australian Railways Commissioner suggested that there ought to be one authority to look after urban transport. I think that this is a good idea which ought to receive the encouragement of all governments. 
I want to point to the costs of the proposition that is before us at the moment. 1 recall having written an article for a publication earlier this year. I took the trouble to extract some information friom magazines and technical material that was available to me in respect of some of the measures that were taken in the United Kingdom with regard to decentralisation. I found that some of the measures in force to influence decentralisation of industry in the United Kingdom were: 40 per cent cash grants for plant and machinery; 25 per cent building grants given to service industries as well as manufacturing; discretionary loans and grants, including the possibility that the Board of Trade in the United Kingdom could subscribe to shares and stock; resettlement and removal grants for workers; grants to local authorities to rehabilitate derelict land and improve basic public services; controls on factory development in prosperous regions under industrial development certificates; and a wage subsidy of  £1.10.0  as a regional development premium for each adult male manufacturing employee in the development areas for at least 7 years. These are the sort of things that are being suggested in the United Kingdom.  1  do not suggest that all of them should be applied here. But no doubt these are the methods that our authority will examine under the Bill. The authority will be examining ways and means of encouraging people to move out of the more populous areas into the country regions which have a basic reason to be developed. 
Regional areas would have to grow to a population of about  100.000  before they could become self-generating. I think it is important that we should bear this in mind when deciding which areas are to be developed. I feel that there is a need for committees to be formed on a local regional basis to look at the possibility of their own areas being considered. These committees should be prepared to make a submission to the authority as soon as it is established. 
That is exactly what we want to do. The Commonwealth will encourage regional development and will co-operate with the States, with local goverment authorities and anyone else who is interested in the problem of decentralisation. 
Finally I want to congratulate the Government on appointing  Sir John  Overall to head the authority. He is a man who is well known throughout the world for his capabilities for developing areas, in particular the national capital. I wish him well in his future task which is of great significance to the people of Australia. I support the Bill and reject the amendment put forward by the Opposition. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In view of the increasing public interest in adopting an Australian national anthem for use by Australians at functions such as the Olympic Games, where it is desirable to preserve an Australian identity, will the Government sponsor a nationwide competition designed to produce such an anthem. 
Is the Minister aware of the interest of some Australians in retaining the present national anthem for use only in the presence of The Queen, members of the Royal Family or representatives of The Queen. 
asked the Minister representing (he Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What is the estimate of the hardcore unemployment factor in the Australian workforce. 
How many persons are registered as being unemployed, but who actually are in the process of changing from one job to another job. 
How many married women, whose husbands are fully employed, are seeking employment. 
What is the number of job vacancies in Australia in the categories of skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Labour and National Service has provided the following answer to the honorable senator's question: 
and (2) There are no regular monthly statistics compiled on these bases. However, the Department of Labour and National Service has, at various times, carried out special analyses of the characteristics of unemployed persons. The most recently published findings on these characteristics were set out in the departmental publication 'An Analysis of Full Employment in Australia' (Labour Market Studies No. 2) 1970. 
Hard-core unemployment, in accordance with the definition given in the publication, covers persons registered whose employment prospects were hindered primarily by physical or mental handicaps or by considerations of age or personal qualities: at the date of the last survey in July 1969 there were some 15,000 registered unemployed so classified and this number represented about 30 per cent of all unemployed registrants. 
It is not possible from the Department's special survey to isolate the numbers actually in the process of changing from one job to another. However, at the time of the July 1969 survey there were about 12,500 persons registered, of about 25 per cent of the total, who were classified by District Employment Officers as 'temporarily' unemployed. These were people who were expected to be placed in employment within a short period as suitable job vacancies were thought to be readily available. Most of the people in the process of changing jobs would be included in this category. 
No information is available as to the number of married women seeking employment, whose husbands are fully employed. 
At endSeptember 1972 there were 5,177 unfilled vacancies for skilled workers, 1 1,257 for semi-skilled workers and 2,048 for unskilled workers. 
'Does the Minister for Works agree with his senior Cabinet colleague, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development,  Mr Uren,  who is reported to have said that he is not in favour of compulsory unionism and that he believes that unions should be free and independent? 
I direct my question to  the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware that many cars were stranded recently as a result of flash floods on the Stuart Highway between Port Augusta and Alice Springs? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the progress in the scaling of this road in the Northern Territory and when it will be completed to the border? Is the Minister aware that his State colleague has indicated that the sealing of the South Australian section is beyond the capacity of the State Government? I can understand that because the State Government has run up a debt in excess of $15m. Is the Minister also aware that the previous LiberalCountry Party Government made money available to seal the Eyre Highway? Will the Commonwealth Government negotiate with the South Australian Government in order to provide financial assistance to enable it to seal the South Australian section of this national highway? 
Can the ' AttorneyGeneral inform' the Senate whether' local government will be given .  full  representation status at the forthcoming conversion on' constitutional reform? Has the Prime Minister indicated that he would like local 'government to be given . representation: 04 ' the ' Australian Loan Council? 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that cray fishermen in the south east of South Australia who depend on the United States market have had their returns cut by up to 20 per cent by the action of the Labor Government with regard to the value of the Australian dollar? As a result of this 'action, serious economic, consequences are being faced. Will the Minister consider as a matter of urgency compensation for fosses incurred by the industry? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Labour aware of the difficulties being experienced by employers throughout Australia in filling job vacancies? Does he realise that fruit growers in South Australia in particular are finding it impossible to obtain sufficient numbers of pickers to harvest their crops? Does he also know that some growers claim that many people prefer to subsist on unemployment relief and that this is largely responsible for the lack of labour? What is the Minister's Department doing to overcome this severe labour problem being faced by the industry? 
 I rise to support the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  because in his policy speech he said that all Commonwealth employees would receive 4 weeks annual leave. This Senate must accept the responsibility to enable the Government to implement proposals for which the Prime Minister considers he has a mandate. 1 feel sorry for  Senator Donald  Cameron, who has just resumed his seat, because he has had to swallow the words of his brother, a Minister in another place, who, in a cavalier manner, came in following the policy speech by the Prime Minister and said in a very flamboyant way that only those people in the Commonwealth Public Service who were members of a union would receive the extra week's leave. Having read this very interesting book depicting the image of the Prime Minister in blue on the front cover - I might say that the colour seems to be the traditional Liberal colour - and noted that he has promised very many things for very many people, I think it is quite incredible for the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to suggest that about 40,000 public servants should be disenfranchised from receiving the extra week's leave. Incidentally J think that the only people to whom the Prime Minister did not promise anything were  Mr Myer  and the other employers of this country who provide job opportunities for supporters of the Labor Party and who supported its policies by giving it $50,000. I think the actions of the subordinated Minister for Labour in another place could best be described as impertinent 
I believe that the Opposition has done quite a lot of good for these people in raising this matter in the Senate. It is obvious to me that the Government recognises the incredible mistake it made of supporting the overtures of the cavalier Minister for Labour in another place when he tried to blackmail people in the Commonwealth Public Service into joining a union. I believe that we have shown the Government up for what it is. The Government has done a complete somersault and has agreed with what the Opposition and the Democratic Labor Party have been putting forward. 
The honourable senator reminds me that the Australian Labor Party has some incredible standards. I have heard criticism from the Government side of the chamber. I must refer to honourable senators opposite as being on the Government side but let us face it, they are not going to be the Government for very much longer. Millions of Australians who believed that stupid slogan It's Time' have suddenly woken up to the fact that the present Government of Australia is not what they would like it to be. They are going to change their minds. Honourable senators on the Government side have criticised us for not being familiar with the trade union movement. I once was a member of the Miscellaneous Workers Union and I must say that I have been quite disturbed by the way that it has been carrying on in recent times. It has adopted standover tactics and so on. I believe that the Opposition here can be proud of the fact that, on this question of 4 weeks annual leave, it has brought the Government to its knees. Supporters of the Government are grovelling around and are agreeing with us. They are trying to curry favour and regenerate the favour that they thought they had with these people that they were determined to disenfranchise. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber can be justly proud of what has happened today. L assure the people listening to this debate that we on this side of the chamber will continue to bring the Government to its knees on every possible occasion. 
I refer the Special Minister of State, who represents the Treasurer in this chamber, to the premature announcement by the Premier of South Australia during the course of his current State election campaign that a $300m petro-chemical industry will be established by an American owned company at Redcliffs in the north of the Spencer Gulf area of South Australia. Is the Minister aware that the South Australian Premier has stated that he now has a letter of intent from a Japanese company, Mitsubishi, indicating that it is prepared to enter a partnership with the Americans? As this proposal would seem to be supported essentially by foreign capital and therefore conflicts with Federal Labor policy, will the Minister assure the Senate that the Federal Government will give its blessing to this project - that is, of course, if the feasibility studies that are still to be finalised show that the proposition is viable? 
 I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. Does the Government intend to submit evidence to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission with regard to the current state of the economy? Is it proposed to impress upon those who are to make the decision the importance of considering, in the context of their deliberations, the economic capacity of Australia to pay in order to ensure that a responsible judgment is made concerning the future level of the national wage? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health say whether it is a fact that the Commonwealth Government has approved the relaxation of quarantine regulations to permit the admission of cats and dogs from Papua New Guinea, Norfolk Island, Hawaii and Fiji into this country? Is it a fact that rabies is endemic to Indonesia and that there is a strong likelihood of a spread of this disease from animals in West Irian to Papua New Guinea? If so, what added precautions have been taken by the departments concerned to ensure that positive safeguards are implemented against the introduction of this disease into Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs but he may wish to seek enlightenment from the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. I refer to the proposed trade mission to the People's Republic of China in May this year, which is to be headed by  Dr Cairns  and  Sir Ian  McLennan, and which is to establish friendly and valuable relations. I suggest that this question should be answered without reference to the previous Government. In view of the confusion existing in Japan and Taiwan over the radical changes in the foreign policy of Australia under the Australian Labor Party Government, and because Japan has been our major customer and Taiwan has had substantial trading relations with Australia, will the Government also arrange for this delegation to visit Japan and Taiwan in order to ensure the continuance of established trade relationships with those countries? 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing. Is the Minister aware that the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  announced the Australian Council of Trade Union's housing plan at Noarlunga, south of Adelaide, during his policy speech for the recent South Australian elections? Has he also read the reported statement by the Federal Secretary of the Building and Construction Workers Union that he would not go along with the ACTU's scheme as he was opposed to foreign capital being used and that the houses would be shoddy, at a cost of $10,000, because a contractor could not pay award rates and build a house, at that price? Is the Minister also aware that  Mr Gallagher  is reported to have the support of  Mr Robinson,  the State Secretary of the Union, who has claimed that the ACTU is a front for foreign capital and that he is considering putting proposals to other unions to place a black ban on the ACTU's project? Can the Minister say whether this will mean the end of the ACTU's proposal to construct houses for workers in Adelaide? As  Mr Dunstan  has stated that the South Australian Housing Trust is constructing homes at an average cost of $10,000 and as these homes are of proven quality and are built with Australian capital, will the Minister use his influence to persuade  Mr Dunstan  to change his policy and have this housing development carried out by the South Australian Housing Trust? In the event of the ACTU proceeding with its foreign investment proposal, what action does the Minister propose taking in order to protect workers who wish to purchase such homes against shoddy workmanship and holdups as a result of possible industrial action by the building and construction workers union? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Defence tell the Senate whether the Royal Australian Air Force shares the present Government's doubts concerning the effectiveness and value of the FI 1 1 aircraft? 
Can the Minister assisting the Prime Minister inform the Senate why the Prime Minister did not call a Premiers Conference in February as is customarily done? As the South Australian Labor Government is experiencing serious financial difficulty and faces a deficit of at least $15m, can the Minister say when the Prime Minister intends to call a meeting to discuss this particularly important matter affecting the Commonwealth and the States? 
I wish to direct a question to the Attorney-General. During the Attorney-General's nocturnal raid on the headquarters of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation were certain members of the ASIO staff, including the DirectorGeneral, held incommunicado for several hours? If so, was the Prime Minister made aware of the Attorney-General's intention to employ such tactics during his nocturnal visit? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth Government approved a relaxation of quarantine regulations to permit the admission of cats and dogs from Papua New Guinea, Norfolk Island, Hawaii and Fiji. 
Is rabies endemic in Indonesia; if so, is there a strong likelihood of the spread of this disease from animals in West Irian to Papua New Guinea and what added precautions have been taken by the Departments concerned to ensure positive safeguards against the introduction of this disease into Australia. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND - The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The quarantine regulations have been amended to permit the admission of cats and dogs from Papua New Guinea, Norfolk Island, Hawaii and Fiji under certain conditions. This is not a relaxation of Australia's strict quarantine precautions against rabies. 
Rabies is endemic in parts of Indonesia but is not reported to be present in the provinces east of Java, including West Irian, so it is not considered that there is a strong likelihood of the introduction of rabies into Papua New Guinea from West Irian. The conditions for importation of dogs and cats from Papua New Guinea (and Norfolk Island, Hawaii and Fiji) include a quarantine period in Australia of nine months. Import to Australia will be permitted only so long as the country of origin remains free of rabies. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Works. Does his Department make a study of environmental matters when considering a Commonwealth project? In view of the establishment of the Department of the Environment and Conservation and its proper interest in the environmental impact of Commonwealth public works, which possibly could cause some delay in future Commonwealth projects, what is the Government or the Minister doing to ensure that the future program of works is not delayed? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, by referring to a reported statement by the Minister in another place indicating that he wants to see Australian built 100,000-ton bulk carriers in the Australian merchant shipping fleet as soon as possible. It is also reported that he wrote to Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and the Australian National Line seeking their co-operation in choosing a standard design for these ships. In view of the apparent depressed state of the shipbuilding industry in Australia I ask the Minister whether he is aware of the continued interest by BHP in the shipment overseas of liquefied natural gas. Has the Government been approached by BHP in relation to the construction of tankers suitable for carrying such cargo? If not, will the Minister take up this matter with BHP or other shipbuilding companies and encourage the building of such vessels in Australia? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Can the Minister say whether the Government is planning to upgrade the national highway system to provide for 4-lane highways connecting Canberra with the State capitals in accordance with a reported statement by his colleague in another place, which statement was made before the present Government came into office? If so, what progress has been made with respect to this proposal? Is it a fact that the Minister for Works stated in Melbourne last week that bitumen roads should connect beef stations to major roads? Is it also a fact that the Minister said there should be good roads from Alice Springs to Port Augusta and from Alice Springs to Ayers Rock? If so, what is the Government doing about the Minister's suggestions? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy aware of a statement reported to have been made by a  Mr J.  Butters, an executive of the Australian Gas Light Co., which suggested that pipes for the proposed national gas pipeline from Gidgealpa to Sydney would be unloaded at Port Adelaide and transported from there to Gidgealpa? In view of the recent Commonwealth Government decision to take a more intense interest in the construction of this pipeline and the fact that there is a considerable unemployment factor on the waterfront at Port Pirie, will he favourably consider sending the shipping to Port Pirie in order to discharge the cargo and provide further employment opportunities? 
Firstly, I should like to endorse what  Senator McLaren  has said about Reg Curran, the member for Chaffey who was defeated in a recent State election in South Australia. I believe that he did his very best to overcome the embarrassment caused by the Australian Labor Party in that State. I believe that one of the reasons for his defeat was the fact that  Mr Dunstan  did not honour his promise with respect to Chowilla Dam. This highlights the dishonesty of the Australian Labor Party in South Australia. I support the measure before the Senate at this time and say how much I endorse what the present Government has done with respect to the wine excise which I believe, along with  Senator Laucke,  was an iniquitous tax to be imposed in the way it was imposed.  Senator Laucke,  along with my other colleagues from South Australia, particularly  Mr Giles,  the honourable member for Angas in another place, constantly promoted the opposition to the way in which this excise was introduced. 
As a non-member of the Senate at that time, I made representations to the then Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  and the then Treasurer  Mr Bury,  indicating my opposition to this measure. I am afraid that we were not successful in convincing the Government of the time to remove the excise. Therefore, I endorse what has been done. I do not think any honourable senators should have objection to this measure.  Senator Laucke  has supported it. I should like to suggest now that the Government should direct its attention to a reduction of an excise of another kind. It is the excise on what is apparently the beverage of the workers of Australia - beer - from which the Government derives approximately $400m a -year in excise. 
That is all right. I charge the Government of the day to pay regard to the beverage - beer - drunk by the Australian worker. It has seen fit to remove any imposition with respect to home brew. I believe that this is the thin edge of the wedge because unless the Government pursues the matter and pays regard to the removal of some of the excise on beer, unemployment will be created in that industry. People will make their own beverage. I believe that the Government has done what we in South Australia consider to be the right thing. I support it, as do my colleagues. But I object to the manner in which  Senator McLaren  used this debate to cast aspersions on my colleagues from South Australia. I can say from personal experience that they were to the forefront of an attempt to have this excise removed. That is all I want to say at this stage. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that there are at present 140 Recovery groups operating in Australian States and the Australian Capital Territory? Does he realise that Recovery is a unique voluntary community mental health service offering a sufferer to sufferer relationship which assists the expatient's rehabilitation? Has his attention been drawn to the claim of the Recovery movement in South Australia that it keeps at least 20 people out of psychiatric hospitals each year, resulting in a saving of approximately $72,000? As some States are already making annual grants to this organisation -I was pleased to see that the Commonwealth recently saw fit to make a grant of approximately $1,350 to the Australian Capital Territory branch - and as the organisation requires $30,000 a year to operate nationally, will the Government consider making such a grant to enable these sufferers to be more speedily returned to the workforce? 
 In the absence of the Minister representing the Treasurer, I direct my question to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. I realise that he may find difficulty in answering the question but I hope that he, as a Cabinet Minister, can help me. I refer to the Federal Government's plan to introduce maternity and paternity leave for public servants. Can the Minister give me an estimate of the cost of this measure to the Australian taxpayer? Will there be a need for more Commonwealth public servants to be employed to enable this leave to be given? Does the Government expect that this benefit will flow on to the private sector? If so, what would be the anticipated cost to industry? 
I ask the Special Minister of State: When, where and in what circumstances were the 3 Australian citizens - Horvat, Keskic and Vlashnovic - arrested in Yugoslavia? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is there any truth in the reported statement that the South Australian Government is likely to transfer non-suburban railways to the Commonwealth and that a CommonwealthState committee has been set up to discuss the details? If so, will the Minister say whether similar discussions are being or will be held in the future with other State governments concerning this proposal? If this report is accurate, when is the Government likely to be in a position to make an announcement to Parliament? Finally, will the Minister inform the Senate of the cost to the Commonwealth of such a take-over? 
Has the attention of the Minister Assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to a radio news item attributed to the Australian Ambassador to China in which he was reported to have said that he did not think a continuance of nuclear tests by that country would interfere with the improved relations with China? Can this be considered as official Labor Government policy? If so, how does the Minister reconcile this with the Government's attitude to the French nuclear tests? 
I feel that we are discussing an emotional subject - the taking of life on behalf of the community. We are discussing the punishment for rape, murder, treason and terrorism. When we refer to capital punishment there must be a conflict of emotions. The debate has continued over many days. There has been a conflict of legal opinion. We have recognised the fact that there is a religious opinion associated with the matter. 1 find myself taken up by the spirit of the debate. Legal opinion on the question seems to be divided. Legal friends of mine have said that there have been cases in which capital punishment has been imposed and that afterwards evidence has been submitted which would suggest that the imposition was wrong. I believe that there is room for error on the part of the law. No honourable senator would wish to take a life. Honourable senators would be against capital punishment in most cases but 1 feel, as other speakers have felt, that to remove capital punishment from the statute book would be a mistake.  J  think that the average Australian today is alarmed at present world events. We have heard tonight and on other occasions, about happenings in Europe and at the Olympic Games. 
I think every honourable senator would recognise that most people who are sentenced to death are given the benefit of the doubt and the sentence is commuted to life imprisonment. I become very concerned about the proliferation of violence in the world today, and 1 have just cited the example at the Olympic Games in West Germany when people came in and committed murder. 1 can point to the case in Beirut where gunmen came in and indiscriminately mowed down people at the airport. I think that these things are alive in the minds of the Australian people. 
 Senator Cavanagh  always mentions that matter whenever this subject arises. But it is in the minds of the Australian people. We have seen this not only at the Olympic Games last year; we also have evidence of it in our country.  Senator Gair  referred to a violence in Queensland when the proprietors of a picture theatre came home and were brutally murdered. In recent weeks we have seen further evidence of it at a nightclub in Queensland when some irresponsible person or persons created a situation where people's lives were lost., I believe that this was done with malice aforethought. In my view the support of this chamber is needed to ensure that these things are prevented. I believe that the legislation which we support in Australia should provide for these extreme cases to be dealt with by the imposition of the death penalty. I support the retention of the death penalty, which is the subject of the measure we are discussing. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Education been drawn to a Press statement today by Professor Watson-Munro, who is Professor of Physics at the Sydney University, in which he is reported to have said that Australia needed to embark upon a program to determine the economic feasibility of solar energy? Is the Minister aware that Professor Clark, who is the Vice-Chancellor of the Flinders University in South Australia, stated recently that he is planning to establish Australia's first institute of solar and electrochemical energy conversion at that university? This would encourage research and training in matters relating to the provision of future energy supply through solar and electrochemical sources. 
I would like to address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Can the Minister say whether there is any truth in a rumour currently circulating at Coober Pedy in South Australia that the Government intends to control the sale of opal and that Asian buyers may be excluded from purchasing Australian opals? Can he also say whether it is true that all opal in future will have to be cut in Australia and the sale of rough opal for export will be prohibited? Is the Minister aware that a large volume of opals is exported to Asian countries? If there is any truth in these rumours will he ask his colleague in another place to reconsider this step which could cause grave economic hardship to this valuable industry? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972,  I  present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Wellington Telephone Exchange at Perth, Western Australia. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. Does the Minister realise that 70,000 tourists visited the northern Flinders Ranges last year and that the Australian National Tourist Association estimates that the number will increase to 100,000 within 3 years? In view of the Government's stated interest in tourism and its policy to revamp this sector of the economy, when does his colleague intend to visit South Australia to examine the needs of the tourist industry and the potential of the industry in the Flinders Ranges and other areas in South Australia, such as the Barossa Valley, Eyre Peninsula and the Riverland? If no definite program is planned for this itinerary, will the Minister ask his colleague to consider such a visit as soon as possible? 
I commend the Bill before the Senate, but I also wish to refer to some of the problems that exist in South Australia. I support  Senator Webster's  statement that we ought to be encouraging the people of Australia to purchase their own homes. 
I believe that  Senator Webster  has looked at it and that he has the interests of the people at heart because he has encouraged them to invest money in establishing their own interest in a home. I would like to refer to what is happening in South Australia. In its election promise the State Government said that it was going to make 300 acress available adjacent to the Noarlunga regional centre to enable 1,200 homes to be built for sale at about $10,000 to $11,000 each. I recall that the Builders Labourers Federation was critical of Australian workmen for not being capable of building a house of proper standards. I think that is quite incredible. 
It is so. 
I will be coming to that. The amazing part of the whole business is that the South Australian Government intends to make this land available to. the Australian Council of Trade Unions to enable it to build homes with the use of Israeli money for South Australians to purchase. I believe that that illustrates the incredible standards of the Australian Labor Party.  Senator Webster  has illustrated how people are being coerced into renting homes. 

 - Senator Little has introduced something else into the debate. 
I was just emphasising what  Senator Webster  has said. People are being persuaded to spend up to $15 or $20 a week on the rental of homes when they could be putting that money into the purchase of their own homes. The South Australian Housing Trust, which is an institution that uses wholly Australian money, is providing homes for the people of South Australia. I. believe that last year it built 2,201 flats, cottages and homes for the benefit of the people of South Australia. It makes housing available at as low a deposit as $100. The Government is now encouraging people to rent homes. That is quite incredible. 1 believe that the people of Australia should be encouraged to put their money into something that will provide them with a capital investment for the future. I believe that they ought to be encouraged to purchase their own homes. 
I feel that what is happening in South Australia is quite contrary to what we should be advocating in this place. The South Australian Government is advocating the expansion of housing development in South Australia by the use of foreign capital. I believe that that is a wrong attitude to take. I believe it is an undermining of the South Australian Housing Trust, which has been doing a very good job in encouraging people to purchase their own homes on a low deposit and at low repayments. I commend the Bill; but I would point out that I think that we ought to be encouraging people to purchase their own homes rather than to enter into long term agreements to rent their place of domicile, which is to the detriment of their personal interests. 
I direct my question to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the People's Republic of China accepted the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice? If so, should the statement referred to by  Senator Carrick  that China intends proceeding with a nuclear testing program prove to be correct, will the Australian Government take this matter to the International Court of Justice with the object of preventing these tests? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation noticed a statement attributed to the New South Wales Minister for Environmental Control,  Mr Beale,  calling for a national pollution monitoring network? Has the Federal Government received any official approach from the New South Wales Government in this regard? If not, will the Minister arrange with his colleague in another place to call a meeting of State ministers concerned with the environment with the object of discussing ways and means by which such a network could be established? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health say whether the Government's proposed health scheme is based largely on the Canadian health scheme? Is it a fact that in Canada national health costs have risen at a rate of 13 per cent per annum since Medicare was introduced in 1968 and that this is higher than the Canadian gross national product growth rate of 9 per cent? Is it also a fact that the cost of the Canadian health scheme could reach $7 billion by the middle of the decade? Is the Minister aware that the present health scheme in Canada has been described as a Frankenstein creation by the Minister for Health in Ontario and, according to a Canadian newspaper report, that the politicians have. been, warned in time that it is up to thiem to reform the monster before it bankrupts the economy? 
I  ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and remind him that I asked a question recently about whether the Government would give favourable consideration to providing financial assistance to Flinders University to establish a solar energy institution for research and training in this scientific field.  I  now ask whether the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has been approached concerning the possiblity of establishing pilot solar energy plants to serve small Aboriginal groups. If so, will the Minister say whether the Government intends providing funds for this purpose? 
It is interesting to listen to  Senator Cavanagh  who finds entering into debate at the Committee stage of a Bill irresistible because of the habit of many years of experience. I think that his intervention on this occasion will be to the eternal embarrassment of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt),  who is in charge of the Bill. I find the proposition that we are presently discussing quite attractive because we are: dealing with the expenditure of billions of dollars of taxpayers' money under the Pipeline Authority Bill. I believe that the power of inquiry of the. Public Works Committee ought to extend beyond its present limits. It ought to be within :the power of either House of this Parliament to put any proposal estimated to cost more than $2m before the Public Works Committee for con;sideration and examination. Such inquiries should extend into, for example, projects undertaken by the Commonwealth Railways which at present is contemplating the construction of a railway line to cost $54m. 
These matters are most important to both Houses of this Parliament because large sums of revenue derived from taxpayers are involved. I am intrigued that the -Minister for Works should agree in principle with what we are proposing by way of amendment tonight. This Committee ought to deal with this matter without any further delay. I. suggest that, in doing so, a precedent for the future will be created, and the Minister will be afforded an opportunity to persuade the Government that this precedent ought to apply to other statutory authorities. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General as I believe he is an expert on this subject, but he may prefer to hand it on to one of his colleagues. I refer to the reported intention of mainland China to continue with a program of atmospheric nuclear tests in spite of objections raised by the Minister for Overseas Trade during his recent visit to that country. Can the Minister say whether this situation is likely to interfere with future trade relations with China? Can the Minister say whether the Australian Council of Trade Unions is likely to impose sanctions against China similar to those imposed against France? As China does not recognise the International Court of Justice, what does the Government propose doing to prevent future tests being carried out by China? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I refer to the unfortunate drowning yesterday of  4  Sydney diving instructors while exploring an underwater cave in the south-east of South Australia. I remind the Attorney-General that  9  people have met their deaths in this tragic way in 
South Australia during the past 4 years. I remind him also that recently this area was declared safe for experienced divers by the South Australian police divers. Can the Minister inform me whether there is any code of safety in the States governing underwater exploration? If there is not, is it within the competence . of the Attorney-General to discuss this matter with his State colleagues with the object of providing a uniform safety code to prevent such tragedies from occurring in the future? 
We have heard some very good speeches from this side of the chamber in support of the Prices Justification Bill, pointing out that the Bill is really hardly worth supporting because it will not achieve the results which the Australian Labor Party originally assumed it would. This Bill provides for yet another tribunal to be set up, thus adding to the mounting number of statutory bodies and independent committees that have been set up since the present Government has come to office. In fact, I think since that time about 33 other such bodies have been set up at tremendous cost to the taxpayers of Australia. This tribunal may even duplicate to a degree the work of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices. I would like to refer to one or two comments concerning that Committee that were made recently by  Sir Norman  Young at a meeting. He said: 
We are to have a Federal parliamentary committee on prices under the chairmanship of  Mr Hurford,  the member for Adelaide, a committee which, on  Mr Hurford's  own admission, will possess no statutory powers but which, as he says hopefully, will operate  by intimidating the particular business interests marked out for attention under a threat of a Government sponsored consumer boycott of the goods in question. For the purposes in mind  Mr Hurford  is hoping to establish an extensive spy system from the ranks of the unhappy housewife and the disgruntled shopper. 
He commented also that in his opinion the parliamentary Committee had no power. 
 Sir Norman  Young. The honourable senator should know him pretty well. 
He happens to be the managing director of South Australian Brewing Holdings Ltd and he has some interest in this matter. He also said that the Committee did not have the capability to deal with this extremely complex question. Recognising the fact that the Opposition has appointed some very competent people to this Committee, it might have some chance of being effective. The experience in other countries has shown that this sort of tribunal has failed. I recall the United Kingdom found that the inflationary trend did not change significantly by instituting measures similar to those we are discussing at the moment. The  President  of the United States did halt rising prices for a limited time last year only to find that soon after this trend lapsed and the inflationary trend went on as usual. However, we must support the Bill because we believe that something has to be done in an attempt to arrest the tide of inflation. Even if the course proposed is to introduce legislation which is intimidatory up to a point we will go along with it. 
Like previous speakers, I believe that without effective control of wages and imports this Tribunal will have little effect on price levels in Australia but will have a major effect on a manufacturer's business by slowing down any proposed price increases. This will have the inevitable result that manufacturers will tend to raise their prices or attempt to raise their prices earlier in the future. I want to illustrate what 1 mean. When we consider the provisions of the Bill we appreciate that this could possibly be so because the Tribunal will have 21 days from the date on which a company notifies its intention to raise its prices in which to serve a notice of an impending inquiry. The Tribunal will then have 3 months in which to complete an inquiry and furnish a report to the responsible Minister, who in turn will have another 14 days in which to make the report public. So there could be a delay of well over 4 months before a decision is made on whether a proposed price increase is to be accepted, rejected or amended. That will place manufacturers and retailers in a most difficult position. Perhaps I could illustrate the point I am making by asking the Senate to envisage what could happen to a company that wishes to retail, for example, bikinis, which, I am led to believe, are seasonal garments - if they can be described as garments. If a price increase were contemplated that company would be in no position to place the forward order that is necessary to secure stocks of this article from the manufacturer. That would flow on and create problems in the manufacturing industry as well. 
I also wish to question the penalty provisions of the Bill. The Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  .probably will be able to clear up this matter for me when he replies to the speeches of honourable senators. Is a $10,000 fine to be imposed on a company for non-compliance with respect to one article only or will it apply to a group of articles whose price increase is contemplated? I would appreciate it if the Minister were to clarify this important matter when he replies to the speeches of honourable senators. Whilst the Act will apply to a relatively small number of companies  -  1 think about 350 or 400  -  and will in fact discriminate against the larger companies it will also take in an almost limitless number of commodities. Where an inquiry is held into a particular manufactured article which is sold through a large retailer, that retailer also will have to apply for any increase which he deems necessary, unless the Government intends to select only major commodities. If it does not do that, I believe that the volume of paper work will bog down the tribunal. 1 wish to return to the address by  Sir Norman  Young in which he referred to the establishment of the Prices Justification Tribunal. He said: 
The real humbug of the Prices Justification Bill, however, lies in the fact that any decision which the Tribunal reaches on a company's application to have a price increase dealt wilh has no legal force. 
If that is not so, perhaps the Minister will clear up that point for  Sir Norman  Young.  Sir Norman  went on to say: 
The Tribunal informs the Minister of its findings and the Minister then informs the Press. If a company is satisfied that its proposed price increase is justified, despite a contrary view by the Tribunal, the company can implement its own decision; but only after it has awaited the outcome of the proceedings before the Tribunal. 
In other words, the Prices Justification Bill is founded on the improper and unsupported assumption that Australia's largest companies are charging too much for their goods and services. And the Government, having no power to fix prices, has decided to embrace an undisguised policy of intimidation. 

 Sir Norman also said that the Government is creating a political smokescreen in the form of this Tribunal, which can make little or no contribution to the solution of the problem of wages chasing prices. He said that that is not only bad politics but also bad government at a time when real leadership in this area might be expected to attract the co-operation of all the parties which have responsibilities to discharge. 
I also wish to refer to another matter concerning the penalty provisions of this Bill. The penalty suggested in the Bill for noncompliance with its provisions is, according to my understanding of the situation, $10,000 for each offence. I hope the Minister will give me further information on that aspect. If a clerk who works in a large firm, such as David Jones or Myer's, were to make an error in the preparation of a submission to the Prices Justification Tribunal would that be taken to be non-compliance? If 3 of a range of, for example, model gowns were missed from the schedule would the firm concerned be subject to the penalty of $30,000? Those are questions that must be answered. It may be the intention of the Government that any number of errors in a schedule should be regarded as only one offence, but I do think that the Minister ought to clarify that matter for the benefit of the people who are most concerned about it. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that Messrs Scotton and Deeble based their health insurance recommendations recently made to the Government largely on personal on the spot studies of the governmentfunded Canadian health scheme? Is the Minister aware that the Federal Deputy Minis- ter of Health in Canada, when referring to the Canadian medicare scheme, recently stated: 
We have come to the inescapable conclusion that we have the wrong system. 
Is he aware also that one of the main reasons for the Minister's statement was that the scheme is being over-utilised? I ask the Minister whether the Labor Government will avoid proven mistakes made by other governments before introducing radical changes to the present Australian health scheme which obviously is the envy of many overseas countries? 
I refer to the Minister for Primary Industry an article published in the March issue of 'Wigging News', a publication issued by the 'keep the wool industry free campaign'. Is he aware that the following statement appeared in that article? 
The situation developing in Victoria to get exclusive control of the $3m a year wool  reclassing  market needs careful watching. A co-operative initially to be made up of the 500 employed in the  reclassing  industry known as the Wool Classers Cooperative has been set up. 
I ask him also whether he is aware that  Mr Landeryou,  the Victorian Secretary of the Storemen and Packers Union made this statement in Melbourne? 
If the Federal Government introduces an acquisition scheme for the wool clip, the Co-operative would seek a contract from the Government to resort the entire Victorian wool clip, except that sorted on private property. 
He went on to say- 
I want to make one or two remarks which have been prompted by the speech which  Senator Mulvihill  mr.de earlier. He chose to criticise  Senator Carrick  because the honourable senator referred to the way in which this present Government was frustrating the attempts of Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd to attract employees from overseas. I think that  Senator Carrick  quite properly drew the attention of the Senate to this matter.  Senator Mulvihill  criticised BHP in many ways, particularly with respect to the transfer of employees to other parts of Australia. At this time BHP at Whyalla requires ISO engineering tradesmen and 300 married unskilled workers. I think the honourable senator also referred to the meagre wages which were paid. I have figures here which indicate that the gross average weekly wage for the 6 weeks ending 20 February this year was $140 for tradesmen and $90 for unskilled workers. It is interesting also to know that the steelworks has about 2,500 persons employed there who have been brought from overseas. I think it is also necessary for me to enlighten  Senator Mulvihill  and other honourable senators here by telling them that the BHP helps people from both overeas and within Australia with travelling expenses and fares. I think it will be interesting to honourable senators if I just tell them the details of this. Financial assistance is available under agreement to tradesmen and married unskilled workers recruited in Australia for actual costs of fares and furniture removal fees. Married tradesmen are allowed $300, married unskilled workers are allowed $150, and the fare only is allowed to single tradesmen. 
The loan is interest free and is not handled in cash. It is normally arranged 'through the branch office nearest the applicant's home. The branch office concerned will arrange tickets and bookings for the family concerned and the balance of the moneys remaining after tickets have been purchased can be used to assist with the cost of furniture removal. The loan advanced under agreement is repaid at $6 a week for tradesmen and $3 a week for unskilled workers until such time as it is finalised. Then after the completion of 18 months continuous service with the company the money advanced and repaid is refunded free of any obligation. The company does stress that the loan can be used only for fares and the cost of furniture removal. As an alternative to this, an approved applicant can pay the cost involved in removing his family, and furniture and present his receipts on arrival in Whyalla and be reimbursed under this agreement. I think that this scheme does indicate that the BHP company has regard for the people who wish to gain employment in Whyalla and have to travel from other parts of Australia. 
I would remind the Senate that the reason the BHP company was forced to ask for permission to bring workers from Spain and other parts of Europe was that its repeated advertisements in Australia, locally and interstate, failed to attract anywhere near the number of employees required. In fact, I understand that BHP received approximately 25 applicants, some of whom were unsatisfactory. They are a few of the facts that I believe  Senator Mulvihill  and other honourable senators on the Government side should consider before they criticise BHP, an Australian company providing tremendous development opportunities to Australia as well as providing employment at one of the highest levels in Australia. Many of the shareholders in BHP are working people in Australia. I think that before the Government criticises this company it should consider the facts in more detail. 
asked the Minister rep resenting the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Does the Government propose to sponsor joint projects between Australia and Communist China as proposed by the Minister for Overseas Trade. 
Is it intended to have such joint projects in oil exploration and refining. 
Does the Government intend that any such projects will be on a governmental basis or will private oil companies be involved. 

 Senator WRIEDT- The Minister for Minerals and Energy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I have no information of such proposals. 
and (3) See answer No. (1). 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to an interview on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's program 'A.M.' this morning with  Mr Tuxworth,  the  Chairman  to the Tennant Creek Town Board, concerning the lack of staff at the Tennant Creek hospital. According to  Mr Tuxworth  some people seeking treatment at that hospital have been turned away and at least one has died as a result of not being able to obtain medical advice. Will the Minister make inquiries into this matter and report to the Senate on it before it rises for the winter recess? What is the Government doing to alleviate the medical staffing problem at that hospital? 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. Is the Minister aware that there are hundreds, possibly thousands, of people in Australia who can lip read? As many of these people undoubtedly witnessed last night the television program 'A Current Affair' and were privileged to be able to identify the alleged libelous and defamatory remarks made by the Prime Minister about a Catholic Bishop, will the Minister table in the Senate an unedited transcript of the interview for the. enlightenment of senators and others in Australia who cannot lip read? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Is it a fact that the Federal Government has given approval in principle to a scheme providing two-thirds of the finance for improving urban public transport? If so, when will the Government be in a position to confirm this acceptance of principle? Will this include suburban railway electrification proposals announced by the South Australian Government last week? Has an approach been made to the Australian Government by the South Australian Government for financial help for this electrification program? Will the finance, amounting to twothirds of the total, envisaged by the Government be a straight out grant or is it intended to be a long term loan? If it is to be a loan, what interest if any will be charged? 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Air. Can the Minister say whether the practice of the Department of Air with respect to flight arrangements for servicemen travelling between Australia and Singapore has changed? Is it a fact that until December 1972, up to 20 service personnel were entitled to first class travel on a charter aircraft, the excess being accommodated in economy class, whereas now these personnel travel first class on civil airlines with consequent heavy increased cost to the Government? If this is so, will the Minister ask the Department to revert to the previous system which appears to be much more economical? 
 I wish to speak briefly in support of what  Senator Prowse  said earlier this afternoon when he pointed to the problems associated with the land acquisition proposed by the Government in the Northern Territory to allow for expansion of the Darwin housing program. I have received many telegrams from land holders in that area pointing to the shabby treatment that they have received from the Minister for the Northern Territory,  Mr Enderby.  They all maintain that, despite repeated attempts to obtain answers to their questions relating to the Government's intention for this area, they have been unable to get any satisfactory answers. The people concerned called a public meeting in Howard Springs on Sunday 18 March to discuss this matter. They invited representatives from the Department of the Northern Territory to be present to provide information and answer further questions. I believe more than 400 people attended. I have been informed that it is fair to say that many questions were not answered to the satisfaction of those people who attended. In spite of general assurances many of the people in the area, and in particular the small block holders, were being hurt and their hopes and aspirations for the future were being seriously prejudiced. 
I realise that the Government is quite in order in gazetting this matter. It is quite within its rights to bring this matter before the House of Representatives and this place where, according to requirements, a copy of the notice must be laid down in the Parliament within 14 sitting days after the date of publication and either House may, within 30 days - not sitting days but 30 actual days - thereafter pass a resolution that the notice shall be void and of no effect. It seems to me that the Government introduced this measure very late. If it was not for the vigilance of  Senator Drake-Brockman, Senator Prowse  and other honourable senators representing the Opposition I believe this proposition could well have taken effect. This would have been to the great inconvenience and apprehension of the people in the area to which we are referring. We must remember that a majority of these people are very small land owners who are doing their best to provide their families with a comfortable home in an area which is rather greater than the area of the blocks in Darwin. I understand that 2 people who own about 8,000 acres of land in the area are prepared to sell.I also believe that the smaller land owners in the area are not opposed to that idea. According to the PakPoy report, if the 8,000 acres were acquired it would provide space for development of the housing program in Darwin well into the 1990s.I oppose the way in which the Government has introduced this measure. I suggest the Senate ought to reject the proposal and agree to  Senator Drake-Brockman's  motion. If that were done it would give the vast majority of those 100 people who are involved in this matter an opportunity to plan for their future. 
 The Liberal Party opposes the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill 1973 which provides for 2 Senators for the Australian Capital Territory and 2 Senators for the Northern Territory. We believe that this proposal is contrary to the spirit of the Constitution by which the sovereign States agreed to the establishment of the Federal Parliament. The prime reason for this agreement was that the Senate should be created as a States' assembly with the clear and prime responsibility of protecting the interests of the States, particularly the less populous ones. In order that the smaller States were given full protection, the basic principle of Federation was equality of Senate representation of the original States and that all proposed legislation must have the majority assent of the Senate before being enacted. The people responsible for drafting the Constitution acted very wisely in this respect as this principle gave a reasonable guarantee to the 3 smaller States that they would have an equal voice in the Senate and provided a balance to the House of Representatives where they were decidedly outnumbered by New South Wales and Victoria. We believe that if this Bill were approved, this principle would be destroyed by giving the balance of power to Territorial representatives and the Senate would no longer be a true States' House. 
The passing of this Bill would also open the door - and I believe quite properly - to a request from other Territories of Australia to seek Senate representation, and this would create a precedent for the admission of 2 senators from the Australian Antarctic, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Island, Heard Island, McDonald Island and Norfolk Island. A further 12 senators could conceivably be added to the number of senators in this place. I think that this Bill is a further attempt by the present Government to weaken the States. I should like to draw the Senate's attention to an article that appeared in the Adelaide 'Advertiser of 18 May 1973. This is an illustration of what the present Government is trying to do. The article was written by Stewart Cockburn and it is headed Whitlam "hell-bent on abolishing States" '. It states: 
Commonwealth proposals to abolish appeals to the Privy Council and to have the Governor-General changed into a Viceroy are designed to 'kill the Federal system of government and achieve a unitary system by back-door methods'. 
This is the belief of MrIan Wilson, M.H.R., and, he claims, a growing number of 'Australian Constitution watchers'. 
I think that we can look to other recent examples where the present Government is driving the wedge further and further into the foundation of the power of the States and we do not have to look very far back. Yesterday the Senate dealt with a Bill which was designed to enable the Commonwealth to create regional council groups througout Australia at the will of the Minister and thereby circumvent the States with respect to providing finance for local government. As the States agreed to federate on the basis that their rights would be safeguarded, it would be interesting to know whether the Australian Labor Government has consulted the State governments for their opinion on the effects on States' rights of proposed territorial representation in the Senate. Although there is no provision in the Constitution for this, I am sure that the architects of that document would have expected adequate consultation before such a move was ever contemplated. 
We have just passed in the Senate a Bill giving the Australian Capital Territory another member in the House of Representatives. I believe that the electorate at large is against an increase in the number of members of Parliament, as was demonstrated quite adequately at the last referendum on this subject. The Liberal Party agreed to the additional member of the House of Representatives for the Australian Capital Territory as the electoral populaton of the Australian capital is now 85,282, and this will bring the 2 new electorates into line with other electorates in Australia as far as the number of electors are concerned. The Northern Territory, with an electoral population of about 32,000, is adequately represented by one member.  Mr Calder,  the member who represents that electorate, is an exceptionally energetic member of the Australian Country Party. He represents the Northern Territory very effectively in the other place. The only possible argument in favour of an additional member of the House of Representatives for the Northern Territory would be based on the tremendous size of the electorate. 
No one can possibly say that Canberra is not given an adequate hearing in this Parliament. In fact, South Australians who visit here - and more particularly, State members of Parliament - turn green with envy when they see the rapid development that is taking place in this part of Australia as a result of what, they consider to be over-generous expenditure of taxpayers' money. In addition to 2 members in the House of Representatives, the Australian Capital Territory has a permanent Standing Joint Committee of the Parliament that is responsible for promoting the interests of Canberra. This Committee, consisting of 4 Senators and 5 members of the House of Representatives, examines matters relating to the Territory. Indeed, no area of its size in Australia is as well cared for as the Australian Capital Territory. lt is also proposed to have a joint committee for the Northern Territory, and if the Senate decides to be represented on this committee, there will be 4 senators and 5 members of the other place on that committee. Even if we do not decide to be represented on the committee. I would imagine that the House of Representatives will form such a committee which will take a particular and continuing interest in the affairs associated with the Northern Territory. If people in the Northern Territory say that they are not being cared for, as a member of the Public Works Committee I should like to point out that we seem to spend most of our time in that area considering references put to the Committee for the benefit of the Northern Territory. I recall that last year we approved of no less than $59m of new work to be carried out in the Northern Territory. In addition to this projected figure, the total expenditure on capital works for civil and defence departments and the Australian Post Office in the Northern Territory in 1972 was $47m. 
The Australian Senate was modelled largely on that of the United States of America, and territories in the United States have never been represented in the United States Senate. In 1967 a congressional committee considered  a  proposal that the District of Columbia be represented by 2 senators but the Constitution was not so amended. Ohe of the arguments advanced against the proposal was that small State influence in the Senate could be defeated as effectively by according senatorial representation to a non-state as by according more representation to a larger State. The independence of the Senate would be largely destroyed if this Bill were passed tying the terms of Territory senators to the life of the House of Representatives and, in my view, it would create second class senators. I should like to refer to an article that appeared in the Canberra Times' on 25 January last. It stated: 
The Constitution gives Parliament a relatively free hand in providing for parliamentary representation for a Territory, lt can allow representation 'in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit'. 
However, when it comes to the Senate, the Constitution reads, 'The Senate shall be composed of senators for each State . . .' This raises some doubt as to whether a Territorial representative could be in the full sense a member of the Senate. 
Territories may have to be satisfied with parliamentary representatives sitting in the Senate rather than senators as such, and this could also raise questions about voting rights. 
I will conclude my remarks, because I believe there are other speakers who are anxious to speak on this Bill, by drawing the attention of the Senate to a letter to the editor of the Australian' in April this year. I think it sums up the electors' anxiety about this matter. 
The letter is signed 'G. Morris, Brisbane'. I will read 2 extracts from it which I. think are typical of the attitude of the electors to this serious matter. The letter commences with these words: 
The Government's announced intention of legislating for the appointment of two senators each for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory must give rise to considerable anxiety about the future of the Senate itself. 
The letter concludes with these words: 
It is fervently to be hoped that the present Senate will not sign its own death warrant by passing this piece of constitutional chicanery. 
It is quite obvious to the Opposition that the Whitlam Government would ultimately like to see this House completely abolished because obviously the Senate is providing the Government with a considerable amount of irritation. I think that view is borne out by the fact that on  a  recent visit to New Zealand the Prime 
Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  expressed his admiration for the wonderful system of government in that country. In my view everything that  Mr Whitlam  says points to the unfortunate mania of the Australian Labor Party about abolishing the Senate and weakening the rights and powers of the sovereign States. For those reasons the Opposition will oppose the proposal. We have given this matter very serious thought. We cannot support the measure.  Mr President,  is it in order for me to refer to the Representation Bill? 
 This Bill is a beneficial measure which has been inherited by the present Government from the McMahon Administration. The Liberal Party supports this Bill because it provides an amount not exceeding $2.1m to the South Australian Government to enable completion of the construction of the pipeline from Lock to Kimba, both townships on Eyre Peninsula. It is fitting to remind the Senate of the negligence of the Labor Government of South Australia in presenting the first submission on this project. I say 'negligent' deliberately because in my opinion the report concerning this project that was presented in May 1970 did not give an accurate impression of the stocking trends in the area to be serviced by this pipeline. Among other considerations, the report pointed out that because water was the main restriction to further land development for livestock the benefits to farms resulting from the pipeline proposal would mainly come from increased sheep prices. This would have resulted in an aggravation of the embarrassing over-supply of wool at that time. Quite properly the Government rejected the proposition on the grounds that heavy financial commitments already had been entered into with respect to the establishment of the Australian Wool Commission which were designed to alleviate this serious situation. It would have been irresponsible for any Government at that time to encourage further wool production. 
It was fortunate that I and other honourable senators from South Australia were able to organise a deputation to the then Prime Minister and the Minister for National Development, in company with 2 members of the State parliamentary Opposition, the Honourable Arthur Whyte, M.L.C., and  Mr Graham  Gunn, the honourable member for Eyre, in order to furnish the Prime Minister and the Minister for National Development with additional evidence. I must say that Senators Laucke, Davidson and Young have traversed the route proposed to be followed by this pipeline and know at first hand the conditions that have been experienced by the people in that area. I am glad to say that the very excellent report presented by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics recognised the effectiveness of the deputation on page 6 of its report. The deputation showed that there was a substantial increase in cattle production in that area from 1,215 in 1965 to 4,753 in 1971. Pig production increased from 1,634 in 1965 to 4,582 in 1971. There is evidence that the raising of English-bred sheep was being encouraged in that area purely for the purpose of meat production. I was glad that the 
Prime Minister recognised the efforts of these farmers to undertake diversification. The Prime Minister indicated to me afterwards that he felt that if the South Australian Government could sustain the evidence that had been presented he believed that the deputation had a case. Eventually, in May 1972 - 12 months after the original submission and 7 months after the deputation of South Australian Senators on this side of the chamber - the State presented an upgraded report. I am glad to see that the present Government has capitalised on the effectiveness of the previous Government and as a result of this the people from the Eyre Peninsula will benefit from the provisions of this excellent Bill. I support the Bill wholeheartedly. 
I  rise at this time fully aware of the fact that Government senators, having guillotined their way through this week and prevented full and adequate discussion of important measures, are anxious to get back to their States.  I  will not keep them for very long. But  I  do want to refer to a speech which was made last night in the Senate by  Senator Cavanagh. 
-I wish to be associated with the remarks expressed in the Senate. I recall that in 1966  Mr Dugald  Munro and I were elected to the House of Representatives. During those 3 years that I knew him I found him to be an exceptionally hard-working and worthy member of that House. It was regrettable that his services were not availed of in 1969. He was held always in extremely high regard by all of my colleagues in that place. I join with other speakers and add my condolences to his widow and family. 
Does the Minister for Customs and Excise recall the hue and cry set up by members of the Australian Labor Party over the imposition of excise duty on wine because of its effect on grape growers? Has the Minister noticed a reported statement by the South Australian Labor Premier condemning the Federal Government for what he terms 'directly inflationary and quite undesirable' aspects of the Budget? Is he aware of the distress and dismay expressed by the Labor Premier of South Australia over the increased duty on brandy? Is it a fact, as  Mr Dunstan  has stated, that South Australia produces 90 per cent of the brandy made in Australia? As this impost will mean that other spirits will have an advantage over brandy, with obvious adverse effects on sales, will the Minister give sympathetic and urgent consideration to the submission that I understand is imminent from the South Australian Government, in the interests of the South Australian grape industry? 
 I move that the following new clause 6 be added to the Bill: 
This Act does not apply to or in relation to the offence of murder when committed - 
for the purpose of, or in the course of, unlawfully taking or exercising control of an aircraft or while unlawfully exercising control of an aircraft; or 
by an act or omission wilfully causing destruction of or serious damage to such aircraft in flight. 
This is, I believe, the fashionable way of committing an act of terrorism, and it is a crime which has become popular in recent times and which has caused growing concern to the people of the world, including the people of Australia. We are fearful that this crime will increase in number and in seventy. I recall an occasion just over 12 months ago when I came close to a terrorist or a person who could have been a terrorist on an aircraft which was on an internal flight from Los Angeles to Chicago in America. I must say that my companions of the time are excluded from that description. On that occasion we were members of a parliamentary delegation. A negress came into our part of the aircraft with a glass of whisky in her hand and with what I thought to be a large chip on her shoulder and a fairly mean look in her eye. Fortunately she approached me and one of my colleagues in the Liberal Party. We were able to dispel the look of antagonism from her eye. I bought her another glass of whisky. If she had stayed near the seats where my colleagues from the Labor Party were sitting, the situation could have been different. I was able to show this lady that the Australian people are most mindful of problems in the United States. Having bought her a glass of whisky and having presented her with a golden kangaroo which she pinned on her ample bosom the look of antagonism- 
 I do not wish to delay the Senate for very long, but I must join my colleagues in condemning the absolute stupidity of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in writing a letter of the nature referred to by  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield to the South Australian Government, knowing that he could not do anything about the matter in any case without first consulting the other partners to the agreement. The Premier of South Australia unfortunately is sick and was unable to be in the House today. Part of his sickness may have been due to the shock that he received as a result of the stupidity of the inflationary Budget which has been brought down here and about which he has made his comment as is reported in today's Press. However, the  Deputy  Premier of South Australia very quickly said that his State would not tolerate any change in the Dartmouth Dam program. We as Senators and responsible people representing the people of South Australia, endorse what the  Deputy  Premier of that State has said. I may say that I have had conversation with the Leader of the Opposition in South Australia,  Dr Bruce  Eastick, who is completely in agreement that this is a most irresponsible action for the Federal Government to take, recognising the desperate need for South Australia to ensure an adequate water supply for its future viability. 
I would remind the Prime Minister through the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas 
McClelland) who is at the table, that he is acting in a cavalier fashion in accepting the recommendations of the Coombs task force without consulting with the State governments concerned. I believe that the Coombs task force is a disaster area for Australia. I am certain that recommendations which will be forthcoming from it will be damaging to the future economy of this nation. I have no confidence in  Dr Coombs  or his task force, if the Budget is any evidence of their credibility. I have no confidence in .this Federal Government which has treated South Australia in a most shabby fashion in relation to this matter. 
The Attorney-General will recall that some time ago, following the death of 4 experienced Sydney divers in a limestone cave in South Australia, I asked whether he would take action for the introduction of uniform safety regulations governing underwater cave exploration. Has his notice been drawn to a recent report of a coroner's inquiry which indicated that the divers stayed in the cave for too long and died from lack of oxygen? Can he say whether he has approached his State counterparts on this matter? If so, what progress has been made? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Defence say whether there has been a change of procedure with respect of recruitment of naturalised Australian citizens wishing to undertake officer training courses at Australian naval colleges? Is the Minister aware of a case in South Australia where an extremely enthusiastic European aged IS years has been refused entry to a naval college on ethnic grounds, as pointed out in a letter? The Minister may be aware of the terms of the letter, which was received by the boy's father from the Department. It stated: 
Despite the fact that you and your son have been naturalised there are nationality requirements for entry which your son does not possess. Regrettably therefore it is not possible to accept his application for entry as an officer. 
For the information of the Senate, will the Minister clarify the Government's attitude regarding such applicants? Can the Minister say whether the Minister for Immigration approves of what seems to be a blatant act of discrimination against a migrant wishing to serve his adopted country in this way? 

 - Mr President, I  wish to ask a question of you. Does the  President  realise that I  have been doing exercise for some time and during question time have become practised in the art to a degree that few in this place can equal my speed in this art? Whilst recognising your preferences for the Leaders of the parties, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and the Whips in this matter,  I  ask whether the  President  will investigate .the possibility in this enlightened computer age of providing an electric panel on his desk to record the order in which senators stand on both sides of the House and thereby assist him in assessing the allocation of questions? This would not only help the  President  but would prevent fatigue symptoms which arc an occupational hazard in this place. 
I will just say a word on this matter and point out some of the difficulties associated with it. As a member of the Joint Committee on Public Works I realise only too well the pressures which are being brought to bear upon the Committee to deal with the many projects which are referred to it. We are subjected to added burdens of work due to environmental matters. We find that more and more people come before us to put their points of view on the environment as it relates to certain projects. This has imposed a considerable burden on the Committee. I commend  Senator Wright  for introducing this matter by means of his amendment. I support him in general principle, as I did when we were discussing the national pipeline project which, .as it involves the expenditure of billions of dollars in the long term, at least should have been referred to this Committee to determine, for example, the route to be followed by the pipeline grid system. 
I believe also that projects such as the Commonwealth Railways line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs, which currently involves an expenditure of $65m and which will increase to S250m or more should we decide to extend it through to Darwin, is a project which is worthy of consideration by this Committee. 1 have taken out some figures in relation to the National Capital Development Commission. If the proposal contained in the amendment were adopted, during the current year 1973-74 the Committee would have to consider not less than 12 projects of $1.5m or more. 
There are more, certainly, but the number of projects costing in excess of Si. 5m is 12 according to the figures I have - I can be corrected on this - but there are something like 8 projects costing less than $1.5m. Some 20 projects are involved. The Minister may not agree with this figure and I would be interested to learn his assessment of the position. These projects involve something like S98m, which is an incredible amount of money to be expended without some scrutiny by a responsible Parliamentary committee. Added to this figure is the cost of projects carried out by other statutory bodies and the projects that  Senator Wright  mentioned. I think this is a very good point. The extraordinary amount of money under the statutory limit being spent by various departments on projects is a very strong case for the Minister and the Government to consider having a look at random projects costing less than the figure we have suggested. I believe that this would be a psychological deterrent to departments which may be carried away with enthusiasm, perhaps to the detriment of the taxpayer. 
Harking back to the amendment, I heartily agree that there are projects which ought to be looked at. I know that the Minister for Works,  Senator Cavanagh,  would agree with this proposition, as he did during the debate on the National Pipeline Bill. The Minister and the Government should follow the example set by  Senator Wright  when he, as Minister for Works, referred the Darwin port extensions to the Public Works Committee. I agree with the principle of the amendment but because of the tremendous volume of work that it would create for the Committee at a time when we are looking at ways in which we can use the time of the Public Works Committee more effectively I cannot support the amendment at this stage. But I ask the Government to have a general look at the system under which these projects are referred to our Committee. I think there is a strong case to suggest that either House of Parliament ought to be able to refer certain projects to the Committee. 
 I know they can. 
Very well. If that is not so- 
I thank  Senator Wright  for his interjection because that was my understanding of the position. I agree with him. The Minister misled me on that point. I think there is a strong case for both Houses of the Parliament to be given the right to refer any project from a statutory authority to the Committee if there is some valid reason for it. There may be an objection to a particular project. I earnestly suggest that the Government look at this matter. With those remarks, I conclude by saying that I am unable to support the amendment. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Is there any truth in the reported statement that the Australian Government is going ahead with the establishment in Australia of a joint Australian-French uranium enrichment plant? If so, can the Minister say where the plant will be situated and when he expects the plant to be in operation? 
I present the following petition from 1 50 citizens of Australia. 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the proposed ' Free ' National Health Scheme is not free at all and will cost four out of five Australians more than the present scheme: 
That the proposed scheme is discriminatory and a further erosion of the civil liberties of Australian citizens, particularly working wives and single persons: 
That the proposed scheme is in fact a plan for nationalised medicine which will lead to gross waste and ineficiencies in medical services and will ultimately remove an individual's right to choose his/her doctor. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will take no measures to interfere with the existing health scheme which functions efficiently and economically. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Motion (by  Senator Jessop)  proposed: 
That the petition be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. 
-I ask the Minister for Repatriation a question in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Supply and also possibly in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Labour. I refer to a recent report stating that 22 scientists and 100 technical staff, as well as 177 tradesmen and, I think, 57 clerks lost their jobs at the Weapons Research Establishment at Salisbury in South Australia as a result of the Government's decision to cut down on defence expenditure. Can the Minister say whether the Government has been able to employ these people, particularly those with special skills, in other departments? I would be grateful also if the Minister could inform me as to how the recent action taken by the Government in transferring 10,000 public servants to other departments will restrict the growth of the bureaucracy. 
I found myself in complete agreement with the Labor Premier of South Australia when he said that the Budget, the first one to be brought down by a socialist government for 24 years, was inflationary. Also I find myself sharing his displeasure and dismay at some of the implications of the present Budget to the people of South Australia who have been suffering under a State Labor government for some time. They were deluded into hoping that with the advent of a Labor government on the Federal scene they would be doing pretty well. But such is not the case. I believe that the penalties that have been immediately imposed upon the people of South Australia, in common with other people throughout this country, are quite incredible. I am amazed that  Senator Primmer,  who has just spoken, would have us believe that he has some concern for rural industry. He chose to ignore many of the impositions that have been placed upon rural industries as a result of this Budget. For example, he disregarded the increased excise on petrol which in some areas would approach 7c a gallon. He chose to ignore the increased duty on diesel fuel which amounts to about 5c a gallon. He chose to ignore increased tax on private companies which is confined not only to city areas but also has an impact on the rural sector. He chose to ignore the discontinuation of benefits such as the investment allowance. He mentioned the discontinuation of deductions for depreciation. But there are other things that he should have mentioned and showed some concern for because the value of these other benefits that have been withdrawn amount to $ 147m in a full year. These are the things that concern honourable senators on this side of the Senate. 
I was interested also in what  Senator Mulvihill  had to say. Sometimes he is a little hard to follow, but he mentioned the question of strikes on more than one occasion. It is interesting to note that since the Labor Government has been in power, strikes have increased to an alarming extent. I have a newpaper cutting before me which shows how significant is the increase in the loss of work as a result of the Labor Party's attitude to strikes since it has been in power. The article sets out the working days lost in each State during the first half of this year compared with the corresponding period for 1972. In New South Wales for the first half of this year 556,900 working days were lost due to strikes compared with 336,000 days in the same period last year. In Victoria, 423,200 working days were lost in the first half of this year compared with 298,300 for the corresponding period in 1972. In South Australia, the figures were 49,100 working days compared with 23,200 days. This demonstrates what happens under administration of the sort from which we are suffering in Australia today. 
I would like to mention one or two other important matters that have worried the Premier of South Australia. I think that he has very good reason to be concerned. For example, the brandy excise has placed tremendous pressures upon the grape growers of South Australia. I find it quite extraordinary that honourable senators on the Government side who created such a tremendous uproar with respect to the wine excise should accept this penalty that has been imposed upon the grape growers of Australia and particularly of South Australia which produces approximately 90 per cent of Australia's brandy. Quite correctly, this has brought upon the Federal Government the wrath of the Labor Premier of South Australia. I share his wrath. I think that it is disgraceful that the Labor Government which purports to represent the interest of grapegrowers in South Australia on the one hand should suggest that the wine excise be removed and on the other hand - 
-Certainly, the Government removed it. But by quite incredible means the Government has imposed this added burden upon the growers. Not only does that give the people of South Australia some concern, but also the implications of some of the measures suggested in the document from which many, if not all the budgetary measures have been taken- I refer to the Coombs task force report- give the Premier of South Australia further reason for concern. We find in that document that the Coombs task force suggested to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that the Dartmouth Dam project should be deferred or delayed. Of course, the Prime Minister, not being concerned about the development of South Australia and the urgent need to ensure an adequate water supply, wrote to the Premier of South Australia- to the Premier of a Government of his political colour- and made this preposterous suggestion that the project should be deferred. It is no wonder that the Premier of South Australia reacted against the Prime Minister in such a manner. It is no wonder that the Liberal-Country Party senators from South Australia mounted a united attack upon the Prime Minister and the irresponsible people who reside temporarily on the Treasury benches of the Parliament. It is no wonder that the senators from South Australia reacted in that way. I am comforted by the fact that the Liberal governments in Victoria and New South Wales have agreed with the Labor Government in South Australia that this project must go ahead. These are the matters that give reason for concern to people who are interested in the future of the State that I am happy to represent. 
Another measure that gave rise for comment from the Premier of South Australia was the suggestion that the freight rate on Leigh Creek coal should be increased. One of the reasons why the power stations were established at Port Augusta, it being relatively close to Leigh Creek, was the fact that the Commonwealth Government of the day- a Liberal-Country Party government- was able to ensure that the freight cost from Leigh Creek to Port Augusta was at an economic level. This was one of the major reasons why the power stations were established in that particular area of South Australia. This is the reason, of course, why South Australia enjoyed the cheapest power in Australia for a long period, until recently when the Labor Party in South Australia chose to increase the rates of electricity charges by 1 1 per cent. I can understand the concern of the Premier of South Australia when he recoils at the prospect of further increases in freight rates from Leigh Creek which must inevitably be reflected in further costs to consumers in South Australia. 
A number of other matters cause me a deal of concern. I note in the report of the Coombs task force that mention is made of certain railway projects in South Australia. It was suggested that perhaps the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway line project should be deferred for a further period. This proposal in my view shows a complete lack of interest in the development not only of South Australia but also of the Northern Territory. The previous Government in its wisdom, recognising the need for more adequate rail transport to Alice Springs, saw fit to set aside approximately $2. 5m for the purpose of survey work on that line and also to ensure that plans were laid for the continuation of this project which is most important to South Australia. The cost of that project would be approximately $6 5 m and it would assist tremendously in the development of South Australia and the Northern Territory. 
While I am talking about transport matters, I question the progress on the standardisation of the Adelaide-Port Pirie rail link. This matter has been the subject of discussion between the previous Commonwealth Government and the South Australian Government over a number of years. It is my view that we have been constantly frustrated by the South Australian Government because it has not been able to make up its mind where certain lines ought to go. I am concerned that this project ought to go ahead as a matter of urgency. Until South Australia is connected to the east and to the west by an adequate rail service, the progress of that State will be retarded. 
I must say that I do support the proposals with respect to the amalgamation of Commonwealth and rural railway lines throughout Australia. I believe that this is a move that will help to rationalise freight costs to the more remote parts of this country. I pay a compliment to the Government for taking the initiative in this regard because I am quite certain that this action in the long term will be of benefit to Australia. 
The matter of suburban transport is of concern to me also. The State government must be given much more money than has been provided in this Budget for that purpose.  Senator Mulvihill  directed attention to this matter. It is quite an important aspect and one for which the previous Government had similar concern. I am worried only from the point of view that not enough money has been directed to that proposal. 
In his speech,  Senator Carrick  mentioned one or two ways in which the Australian Labor Party has hoodwinked the people of Australia. The proposed increased expenditure on education is an example. The Labor Party claims, incorrectly, that $404m has been added for expenditure on education purposes in Australia. But it has neglected to mention that $ 144.6m was taken away from the States as a result of the tertiary grants - 
Debate interrupted. 
My question, which is also directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, is supplementary to the question asked by  Senator Bonner.  Will he seek the assurance of the Prime Minister that in future on such matters that are so vital to the exporters of Australia he will have full consultation with the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry and not pull the rug from under his feet? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Works in order to clarify in my mind a matter relating to Dartmouth Dam. In effect, the question is supplementary to that asked by  Senator Laucke.  Under the heading 'Legislation' in paragraph 9 of item 69 of the report of the Coombs task force the following statement is made: 
The unanimous agreement of the three States would be required; if obtained no legislative changes would be necessary. 
Does this paragraph suggest that the Commonwealth Government could in fact take legislative action unilaterally with respect to the construction of this project? 
Last night I mentioned  Senator Carrick's  excellent contribution to this debate. He referred to the various confidence tricks which had been employed by the Labor Government. In particular, I was taken by the way in which he pointed out the methods employed by the Labor Government to delude the electorate into believing that the Government had increased expenditure on education by $404m when it had reduced the grants to the States for tertiary educational purposes by $ 144.6m, which gives a very different picture altogether. The expenditure on education has increased by only $259.4, when the Government would have the public believe that the figure was $404m. I refer to another trick which has been played on the people of Australia. It relates to the Post Office. I will read to the Senate the pertinent part of the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  He said: 
To provide additional resources and at the same time reduce the heavy deficit in prospect on the postal services, some increase in Post Office charges and certain cost- saving measures are proposed. Certain concessions which the Government considers no longer justified will be eliminated. Among these are concessional postage rates on registered newspapers and periodicals, concessional telecommunications charges to the media and the low telephone rentals that have applied in non-metropolitan areas up to now. 
Newspapers in the provincial areas will be heavily penalised. One newspaper reporter told me only yesterday that his company will be penalised, because of added telecommunications charges, to the tune of $100,000, which is a not insignificant amount. The Treasurer also said: 
The basic postage rate of 7c will not be changed. 
He also said: 
The telephone connection fee for new subscribers will be raised from $50 to $60. 
That is an added penalty on many workers who are anxious to have the telephone connected to their homes. On postage rates I think I can do no better than refer to the statement made by the right honourable Bill Snedden when he drew attention to the Government's action in this regard. He said: 
The Treasurer in his Budget speech said the basic postage rate would not be changed. What has been done however is to significantly reduce the weight of letters that can be posted for 7c Many whichcould previously be posted for 7c now are 1 5c. The present rate is 7c for 1 oz which is 28.35 grams. Now the charge will be 7c for 20 grams- a reduction of about 30 per cent. For mail weighing between 20 grams and 28.35 grams the increase in the price of postage will be more than 100 per cent 
That is precisely what the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  said: The Government is guilty of deceiving the public. He went on to say: 
The double standard is related to the advantage they have taken of the introduction of the metric system to achieve hidden price increases. 
That is another example of what  Senator Carrick  referred to- the confidence tricks that are being employed by the Government in this Budget. 
I would like to turn for a few moments to the penalties that have been imposed upon the mining industry, particularly with respect to exploration. I had a long interview the other day with a person who has been affected by this. He was in my office and he gave me his thoughts on the penalties that have been imposed upon the mining industry particularly with respect to exploration. He was a chief geologist for a mineral exploration company which was forced to conserve funds and cut down on exploration, and in the process of cutting down expenditure it had to dispense with his services. He told me that this is the problem of many geologists throughout Australia. Many students at universities are finding it impossible to obtain suitable professional positions owing to the actions taken by this Government. 
The geologist concerned went on to say that he had found it extremely difficult to find employment with other companies and has at last decided to do some free-lance work. So far he has been able to survive- but only just- and his outlook for the future is very dismal. He informed me that he had worked for several companies which have been seriously affected by the Government's, restrictive policies on joint ventures with overseas companies. Many of these exploration companies of course go throughout Australia, identify an ore body, prove it, conduct feasibility studies on it, and then allow the area to be developed by other companies that have more capital and are able to take advantage of the exploration which they have carried out. I would like to draw attention to a publication that I received only this week- the 'Western Prospector'. On the front page is a very bold statement, but a short and significant one, made by the Labor Attorney-General of Western Australia,  Mr Evans.  It reads: 
This is a time when we should show Canberra once and for all what we mean. 
It appears to me that not only has the Premier of South Australia been reacting against the penalties suggested for his State by this Budget but also the Western Australia Labor Party has equally severe thoughts about it. In fact in Western Australia, as illustrated by a report from the Australian' of 27 August, some miners suggest that Kalgoorlie secede from the Commonwealth because of the Budget's effects on the gold mining industry. I was interested to read also some thoughts expounded by  Mr Jim  Mazza, the  President  of the Mining Law Review Council. He has set out his views of significant points concerning the gold mining industry. It is interesting to read them, I think, from an historical point of view apart from anything else.  Mr Mazza  says: 
Gold made the Australian colonies in the 1 850s. Gold made Western Australia in the 1890s. Gold made Federation possible in 1 900. Gold saved Australia during the Depression of the 1 930s. And gold will again save Western Australia in the immediate years to come. 
That is, provided the Government recognises this, and that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  in particular recognises it- the Minister who has accused the mining people in Australia of being nitwits and hillbillies and who, in my view, insulted valuable people who have been responsible for the continuing development of the mining industry in this country. 
I understand that he was at one time a coal miner and it seems to me that he is still groping in the pit pony age and is blind to the realities and advantages of encouraging private company development in Australia. 
-That may well be. But I can assure the Senate that as a result of going around the State of South Australia in particular I have had many comments from mining people suggesting that  Mr Connor  has been a disaster for development in Australia. 
I agree with that- and not only I but also many people who drive around South Australia with a certain car sticker on their vehicles. I saw motor vehicles with stickers which carried this very significant statement: 'You are now doing time with hard Labor'. I think the actions of the Minister for Minerals and Energy are contributing largely to the popularity of such a sign being displayed on motor vehicles in this country. 
There are many other things apart from the mining industry to which I have referred which will cause the people of Australia to be further penalised. Here I refer to latent costs that will cause increased pressures on the pockets of Australian people. I refer to private company taxation. We find that in 1972-73 private companies will pay tax on the whole of their 1972-73 taxable income at the rate of 45 per cent, the old rate being 37.5 per cent on the first $10,000 and 42.5 per cent on the balance. Further, from 1973-74 private companies will pay the normal company taxation rate of 47.5 per cent on the whole of their taxable incomes. These measures, the Government suggests, are expected to yield additional revenue of $50m in 1973-74 and $90m in a full year. That in itself will place heavy burdens on the private companies in Australia which are very close to becoming unviable and this sort of thing must be reflected in the long term in increased prices. 
After all I suppose the increase in prices is the most serious problem facing Australia today. It seems to me that this will bring the Labor 
Government down prematurely. When we look at the approach of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to inflation and study what he has said we find that he wants to control prices. In my view this is a ridiculous method to adopt. The cost of production cannot be ignored, and when considering that factor we cannot ignore the incessant demands from all sectors of the community for increased wages. I recall what was said by a Labor friend of mine, a man who has voted for the Labor Party all his life. I doubt very much whether he will do so again. When we were in Government he said to me: 'Do you know what I would do if I were in your position to help arrest the inflationary trend?' Not being an economic genius by any means, I was prepared to accept suggestions from this Labor supporter. He said: 'I would keep wages at the present level and I would increase the hours in the working week'. That is a very significant thing for a Labor supporter to say. 
I can tell you his name. He is a personal friend of mine in spite of the fact that he chooses to exhibit a complete lack of political sense by supporting the Labor Party. I think his basic thought about the economy was sound but I do not suppose we could expect a party to win an election and become the government on that platform. However I am pointing out the significance of his statement. If the Australian people, in every profession and every trade, could be persuaded to resist the temptation to ask for more money in their pay envelopes, if they could be persuaded to put in an extra, say, 2 hours work a week at full productive capacity, and if wages could be kept at the same level, even for 12 months, I suggest that the inevitable result would be a lowering of the prices of commodities in Australia. It seems to me this very simple suggestion by a Labor supporter ought to be considered. This is what I think the Government ought to be doing. I support the idea of the Leader of the Opposition in the other place who suggested that there ought to be a 90-day freeze of prices and wages. That in itself would not be a long term solution to the problem, but at least it would provide the opportunity for governments, trade unions, industry and commerce, and, perhaps more importantly, consumer representatives to get together and work out whether the thoughts propounded by organisations and people such as the Labor supporter I mentioned are worth the encouragement of the Government. It is time that we looked at the incomes aspect because if we do that prices will look after themselves. 
If I wanted to talk about every matter in this Budget which concerned me I would be here for another hour. I think I have delivered my message over the way that the Federal Government has penalised the people of South Australia, particularly through the increase in the excise on brandy. I mentioned the possibility of further increases in Leigh Creek coal freight charges which could also have an impact on the pockets of South Australian consumers through further increases in electricity charges. I demonstrated the severity of the increase in petrol prices on the populace generally and mentioned other matters that I believe are of particular concern. I will satisfy myself with those few remarks. I suggest that the Government ought to adopt a more realistic approach to inflation, such as that suggested by the Leader of the Opposition in another place. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Repatriation in his capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. The Minister will recall that he told me last week that he intended to consult with his ministerial colleagues and various trade unions regarding the possible redundancies which are likely to occur as a result of the Labor Government's decision to reduce defence expenditure. Can the Minister inform me of the exact numbers of people affected by this policy decision? As the Minister will recall, I am particularly concerned about the future of employees of the Weapons Research Establishment at Salisbury in South Australia. Is the Minister able to report in detail to the Senate on the outcome of these discussions? If not, when will he be in a position to do so? Does the interest in this aspect of Government policy by  Mr Hawke  and the Australian Council of Trade Unions suggest an area of disagreement between the elected representatives of the Australian Labor Party and the trade union movement? Finally, is the Minister aware of the rumour currently persisting that the Department of Supply as such is to be terminated? If this is true, can the Minister inform the Senate of the Government's intention regarding the future of personnel employed in that Department? 
-I ask for leave to make a comment on your announcement,  Mr President. 
I wish to say how grateful I am that you,  Mr President,  have made that announcement particularly for the benefit of Government senators, none of whom was present at the ceremony. I believe that their nonattendance is not only a disgrace and an expression of contempt of the Governor-General but also an action which degrades the Parliament of this country. 
-Is the Minister for the Media aware of the disquiet in the motion picture industry over the Government's intention to establish an authority to control the import and distribution of films in Australia? Is it a fact that nearly all overseas producers have indicated that they will not supply films to a Government controlled buying pool? If this is so, can he inform me how the Government proposes to ensure that theatre proprietors will have an adequate choice of films for their patrons? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDFirstly, I tell the honourable senator that it is not necessarily the Government's intention to establish an authority to control the purchase of films from abroad. This was one of a great number of recommendations embodied in the Tariff Board report to the Government on what the Board considered should be done to help establish a viable film industry in Australia. The Government considered the Tariff Board report and without adopting any of its recommendations decided to refer the report for the consideration of myself and my Department and to bring further recommendations to the Government on it. My Department is now working on the preparation of those recommendations. I am not aware that overseas film distributors have threatened to put a boycott on overseas products coming into Australia in the event of a single buying authority being established, although I have heard it said that they might have to give consideration to withdrawing their products from the Australian market. All these matters are being taken into consideration by my Department in drawing up recommendations which I hope to be able to submit to Cabinet in the near future in the event of such a buying pool being established. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-72, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: Off-shore high security animal quarantine station. 
-Can the Attorney-General inform the Senate whether he intends proceeding with legislation to control firearms in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory? If so, what measures does he propose? Is he aware that the Sporting Shooters' Association of Australia is critical of proposals that have been foreshadowed in the Press recently? Is he also aware that the Victorian branch of the Association has suggested that a mandatory 8 years gaol term should be ordered for the criminal use of firearms? Does the Minister agree that a toughening of the law in this regard would be an effective measure against the irresponsible use of firearms? Will the Minister confer with the body I have mentioned and consider its views before proceeding with legislation? 
At the moment the Senate is discussing the Constitution Alteration (Prices) Bill under which it is proposed to ask the people to alter the Constitution in order to give the Commonwealth 
Government the central power to control prices. I believe that this is not an answer to the problem of inflation in this country. It seemed quite ironical to me that the Government, claiming to have the confidence of the people following last year's election should now be admitting that its course of action has created absolute chaos in the economy. It is unable to manage the economy by proper businesslike fiscal measures and is now asking for power to control prices. The history of price control as a means of controlling inflation demonstrates that it always has been a miserable failure. I have been told that this has been the case since the days of Diocletian. Price control was a failure even in his time. Not being a great historian like my colleague  Senator Wright,  I took the trouble of finding out who this character Diocletian was and discovered that he was a Roman Emperor. I went to the trouble of looking at Chambers Encyclopaedia. It provided a bit of a story which I would like to read to honourable senators. It is headed 'Diocletian's Experiment'. 
-It could have. This is the reference that I believe is interesting. It states: 
A typical experience, the first about which we have much information, was the edict of the Roman emperor Diocletian (A.D. 284-303). Diocletian has been described as the first totalitarian ruler. He succeeded to an empire economically on the brink of ruin after 50 years of virtual anarchy. 
In Australia, after 9 months of a Labor Government, we are in the same situation. 
The currency had depreciated to an alarming degree and only heroic measures could stop the general rot. Diocletian  's  edict of A.D. 301 was the third instalment of a general reconstruction program which comprised a thorough reform of taxation and currency. 
Diocletian realised some of the difficulties of price control, above alt the temptation to producers to shift their activities to commodities remaining outside control. He met this by making his list of maximum prices as comprehensive as he could; we can identify 1,069 separately priced items . . . 
Moreover, as no control of prices could be effective unless it included control of the remuneration of those needed to produce the goods, wages and services fees formed part of the edict: it was a wage as well as a control decree. Yet although among the fees prescribed were those chargeable for transport services, it did not allow in the prices of goods for the cost of bringing some of them to their markets; nor did it provide for a wholesale margin. These imperfections, added to the government's expenditure on war, on expanded public services and spectacular building operations, doomed the edict to failure. In spite of the threat of death to those who either sold or bought at prices in excess of the maximum, and to those who withheld goods from the market rather than trade at the prices prescribed, a black market developed; the business community demurred; the edict had to be withdrawn. 
That is the experience of the first proponent- according to history- of this scheme which the Australian Labor Party has decided will rescue it from its own irresponsibility. I now cite a recent experience of the Israeli people. I have an article which was written by Carol Greenwald in the New England Economic Review' of JanuaryFebruary last year. It states: 
Israel has experimented with incomes policies under conditions of both excess aggregate demand and underemployment. When price and wage controls were used during the late stages of a recession and early in the ensuing recovery, they were successful in moderating wage and price increases. In terms of demand pressures, this period shares a strong similarity with current conditions in the United States. Some economists have suggested that an incomes policy should become a permanent policy tool. Israel 's experience with wage-price controls in a period of full employment illustrates some dangers of controls as a long-term policy device. Because prices serve an allocative function, suppressing their movements can damage economic growth. 
Despite Israel 's considerably smaller size and different institutional structure, its economy responds to economic forces in ways similar to industrialised western economies, so that generalisations based on Israel's experience with incomes policies are relevant to the US economy. Since labor unions in Israel are both politically and economically more powerful than ours, this study demonstrates the limited effectiveness of incomes policies even when they enjoy significant labor support. 
The first section of this article illustrates the futility of using wage-price controls to restrain inflationary pressures where there is general excess demand in the economy. While it is tempting to seek a less painful way than restrictive monetary and fiscal policies to reduce inflationary pressures, with excess demand, wage-price controls do not effectively restrict wage increases and may also, as in Israel, produce the unwanted results of increasing the trade deficit and causing undesirable shifts in industrial structure. 
Israel also decided to take action to forestall a cost-push spiral which might have erupted when new contracts were negotiated in 1963. This is when Israel applied a freeze on wages and prices. The article continues: 
Unions withdrew demands for an increase in basic wage rates when their contracts expired in late 1962 and early 1963. Cost-of-living payments, however, were to continue. In turn, the Manufacturers Association again agreed that employers would absorb increases in the cost-of-living allowance without raising prices. The government, for its part, pledged not to raise direct or indirect tax rates in fiscal year 1963-64. The agreement thus inhibited the use of fiscal measures as an instrument of anti-inflationary policy. 
The article goes on to list the detrimental effects of price controls. For the information of honourable senators I read some further paragraphs which state: 
While the danger that controls may be unfair to particular groups is well known, the danger that it can distort the economic system, with subsequent painful re-adjustments, is less obvious. In Israel, price controls increased the trade deficit and led to the overexpansion of the construction sector. Furthermore, speculative overbuilding was instrumental in bringing on the severe recession of 1 966. 
The effectiveness of price controls in the industrial sector created the illusion among policy-makers that inflationary pressures had been contained. In fact, excess demands were expressed through a rapid increase in imports and a diversion of exports to domestic consumption. Price controls led to a rise in the trade deficit in two ways. First, without price controls, rising domestic prices would have absorbed much of the excess purchasing power which resulted in a larger volume of imports. Second, variations in the effectiveness of price controls caused a decline in the quantity of goods exported. Prices of industrial goods rose much less than those of consumer services, increasing domestic demand for manufactured goods. In industrial goods the volume of exports slowed since it depends on the difference between production and home demand. The proportion of total industrial output allocated to exports fell during the period 1962-1965, after having risen rapidly in the years from 1958 to 1962. The use of price controls, rather than restrictive monetary and fiscal policies, to stem inflationary pressures thus completely undermined any effect the devaluation could have had on expanding exports. 
I am quoting from an article in the 'New England Economic Review'. It is the January-February 1972 issue and it is headed: 'Price- Wage Controls: The Israeli experience '. It is by Carol S. Greenwald. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy aware of the concern expressed by the Electricity Trust of South Australia about the future supply of natural gas from Gidgealpa for use at the Torrens Island power station in that State? Is it a fact that the South Australian Government has been unable to obtain a decision from the Minister for Minerals and Energy on this matter? Does the Minister realise that at present the Electricity Trust of South Australia is assured of a supply for existing plant at Torrens Island but that until the Minister for Minerals and Energy approves further supplies that organisation is unable to plan for the installation of additional generating plant to provide for the power demand in South Australia after 1975? As this is a matter of urgency, will the Minister confer with his colleague in the other place with the object of providing an early reply to the South Australian Government? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Defence seen a Press statement reported to have been made by a former Army officer and member of the Australian Labor Party Federal Executive's Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee in which he stated that the Minister for Defence had been defeated in the councils of government by the left wing with respect to defence policies? Has he also noted that this gentleman stated that morale in the Australian Army is at a very low ebb and that the Returned Services League has agreed with this latter statement? As the Government has contributed directly to this state of affairs, what is it doing to revive the interest of the personnel in the Army? Lastly, is it a fact that a large number of personnel from the Army have been transferred or moved into Puckapunyal and that the housing in this area is inadequate? Does the Government propose to take action to improve the housing at that installation in the interest of boosting morale? 
-I think everyone on this side of the chamber realises, in view of what  Senator Byrne  said earlier, that a referendum is inevitable. Looking at section 128 of the Constitution it appears that if the Senate rejects or amends a Bill and returns it to the House of Representatives and this action proves to be unsatisfactory to that House then in 3 months time the House of Representatives can resubmit the Bill. If then the Senate chooses to reject or amend the Bill in a manner that the 
Government considers to be unsatisfactory the Government can go to the Governor-General and seek appropriate action. We do not argue about the fact that a referendum should be held- 
But we are concerned about the terms of the Bill itself. We are vitally concerned about the definition of prices. I have not been satisfied with the explanation given by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  and I feel quite certain that  Senator Webster  holds a similar opinion. It seems to me to be a very cumbersome procedure to have to rely upon the High Court of Australia to give the Government a definition of the word prices'. 

 Senator Wright introduced a very significant point when he mentioned the question of hire purchase which is a real price attached to farm machinery and so on. I find it quite incredible that the Government is so confused that it cannot make up its mind about these matters, particularly as it would have us believe that this is a question of urgency. Having recognised the failure of its fiscal measures and the failure of its Prices Justification Tribunal to be effective at all, the Government is now asking the Senate to agree that it should persuade the people of Australia to put the control of prices into the hands of a socialist Government in Canberra. So I certainly am not satisfied with the definition of the word 'prices' in this clause. I would have expected more from the Government in this regard and I look forward to a little more elucidation if the Attorney-General can give it. 
I would like to support  Senator Rae  in what he has said tonight in the adjournment debate. I believe that the people of Australia, having been subjected to the imposition by the Government of a Bill seeking a referendum costing approximately $2m - 
I recall that an alteration was made to a new reference to a debate if it is pertinent to the point that had to be made. Whether it is current or not, if it is pertinent it is in order to raise it.  Senator McLaren  is claiming that someone has misinformed the House. I think he is quite within his rights in referring to the occasion of the misinformation, without raising the question of the subject of the debate. I think that under current Standing Orders you,  Mr President,  must rule that he is in order. 

 Mr President, you are reported in Hansard as saying: 
Yes, I agree with that. But  Senator McLaren  must confine himself to the misinformation and not refer to the debate. That is all I am saying. 
Then, for one column and parts of 2 other columns of Hansard,  Senator McLaren  proceeded to elaborate the point of misinformation about which he was concerned. He did so with nothing more than the interjections which usually attend what he has to say. He completed what he had to say. With respect,  Sir, there  should be consistency in rulings and, if there is an allegation that misinformation was given and that has to be explained, the complete absence of information is probably of more vital significance than misinformation. It is a matter of how you determine it in the context. I certainly put it to you,  Sir, that  no honourable senator should really argue the subject matter of the actual debate, but to refer to the fact that matters were brought forward and that there was no opportunity for debate is not referring to the debate and is well within the ruling which you gave last week. These matters have to be viewed with a degree of tolerance, which you showed last week. I submit that the same ruling should be applied this week. 
No  Senator shall  allude to any debate or proceedings of the same Session unless such allusion be relevant to the matter under discussion. 

 Senator McLaren was claiming that a misstatement was made and that another senator had deceived the Senate. If that a senator has deceived the House a senator who believes the deception took place has a responsibility to explain to the House that the deception took place. For the purpose of showing that the deception took place and that the House was deceived it is necessary to refer to what the honourable senator said during the course of the debate. That is entirely different from what we have seen tonight. We have had a debate on the question of referenda.  Senator Jessop  referred to quarter of a million dollars or half a million dollars - 
-To $2m. 
The adjournment of the Senate may be moved at any time by or on behalf of a Minister of the Crown, and on such motion matters irrelevant thereto may be debated. 
Thank you for your ruling,  Mr President.  I wish to advert to future referenda which may be promoted - 
-No. I was referring to future referenda that may be propounded by the Government. I understand that the Prime Minister of Australia is prepared to subject the people of this country to - 
I believe that I am quite in order in referring to something that has been proposed by the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has indicated that he wishes to put before the people of Australia a referendum concerned with the control of working conditions for the people of Australia. I am worried about this matter. Every time we have a referendum it costs the taxpayers of Australia something like $2m. I believe that when we are faced with an inflationary problem in this country we cannot afford to subject the people of Australia to such extravagances. I ask you,  Mr President,  whether on future referenda it will be in order for the Government to use the ruthless methods of the gag and for its members to rise in this place - 
I do not know whether I have the numbers to do what I am doing at the moment. I suggest that what I am saying is of great significance to the Australian people because in the past the Senate has been used to the detriment of the Australian people and I want to ensure that this is not allowed to continue. I recall on many occasions since I have been here members of the Government choosing to raise in the Senate questions associated with matters of importance which I believe were against Standing Orders. For example, on more than one occasion I have heard a Minister in this place move a motion and at the same time move that the question be put. 1 believe that this is a deliberate - 
I did not say that. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  My main concern is that this Senate will be confronted with a series of referenda and that it will cost the Australian taxpayers approximately $2m for each exercise. I want to make sure that in future adequate time is provided for the presentation of a case against a particular referendum that may be proposed. I ask you,  Mr President,  knowing that you are a benevolent and reasonable man, to ensure that the Australian taxpayers have an adequate opportunity to express both points of view in the future. 
Today we are discussing the post and telegraph legislation which will provide additional revenue for the Post Office, a colossal enterprise which provides a remarkable service to the people of Australia. Of course the Post Office finds that it, together with every other business in Australia, is burdened with inflation. Within the last few months we have seen measures introduced which provide for an extra week's leave for Commonwealth public servants and for 12 weeks maternity leave. These measures in themselves must have created pressures on the Post Office in the form of added salary bills and so on. In the first instance I was shocked at the amount of the increase in postal charges but I am pleased to see that the Government has recognised the need to review the charges which were originally proposed in an attempt to moderate them. Even so, these charges will create tremendous problems for the smaller country newspapers and for people who wish to provide readers with periodical publications. 
I recall a monthly magazine which is produced by the wine and brandy producers of Australia to inform their readers of matters of importance associated with that industry. Only a few days ago the  president  and the secretary of that association consulted  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield,  Senator Laucke, Senator Young, Senator Davidson,  and myself from South Australia. These producers were still reeling as a result of the impositions placed upon them by the Government through the budgetary measures which affect that industry. They informed my colleagues and me that it cost them $700 to $800 a year in postal charges for this monthly magazine and that under the original proposals this amount would have increased the cost to about $3,500, an increase of about 500 per cent. It is no wonder that that organisation was not feeling too happy about the present Government when we spoke with its representatives only a few days ago. Together with other honourable senators in this place I have received many telegrams and letters from country newspapers, from the Methodist Church in relation to its church magazine, from other church organisations which have written to me, and from the Wheelchair and Disabled Association of Australia which has indicated that it is fighting the measures proposed by the Government. These measures will place a tremendous strain on all the people and organisations which have written to me. They suggest that we should oppose the measures completely and throw them out, but I recognise the need to provide the Post Office with revenue to enable it to carry on the service which it has been able to provide over the years. 
I am of the opinion that the Australian Post Office is unequalled in its technical and scientific capacity. I believe that our service in Australia is one of the best if not the best in the world. I have had the privilege of inspecting laboratories which are run by the Post Office. I think that all honourable senators ought to take the opportunity to investigate those places. I believe that their eyes would truly be opened at the technical capacity of the Australian Post Office which is directed towards providing a better and more efficient telecommunications system in Australia. 
Yes. I am referring to laboratories. 
-Senator Wright is introducing another aspect. I intended to get on to the various aspects of management within the Post Office which may need some revision. Of course a Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office has been appointed. No doubt its terms of reference give it a fairly wide ambit in which to examine the functions of the Post Office. For example some of its terms of reference include the financing of recurrent and capital costs and management/staff relations. I suppose that would deal with the question raised by  Senator Wright  a moment ago by way of interjection. The terms of reference embrace: Procurement of supplies with the aim of developing Australian industries and the performance of work by contract. Undoubtedly all of this will result in suggestions as to how economies may be introduced into the postal service of the Post Office. I was pleased to hear  Senator Wilkinson  say that it may well be that in the future we will see further reductions in charges. 
I believe that literally hundreds of people would be involved in the concern which has been expressed in the representations which I have in front of me. I have a telegram from Field Education Enterprises of Australasia Pty Ltd which complains about the measures which we are considering at the moment. The  President  of the National Business and Periodicals Publishers Council says that his organisation is faced with a 500 per cent increase in postal rates. All these matters are of great concern and they deserve the attention of the Government. We must insist that they are kept under continuing review. The penalties which will be imposed upon people in country areas have been canvassed by  Senator Lawrie  and others this afternoon. I share his concern that people in those areas should be penalised, as they will be, as a result of these charges. It seems quite strange that all members of the Government are in favour of these increased charges but when in Opposition they were, to a man, opposed to such charges at every stand. I will not resist this measure. I support the Opposition attitude with respect to the measure before the Senate particularly because, as a result of the work which has been done behind the scenes, the Government will introduce amendments to this Bill which will make some reductions at least to the postal charges which we are considering. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, by saying that this morning I had representations about a South Australian who is presently in Israel and who is unable to return when she anticipated being able to return. I understand that this case is not an isolated one and that many other Australians are stranded in Israel. What is the Government doing to ensure a speedy repatriation of these people? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Customs and Excise been drawn to a statement reported to have been made by the Premier of South Australia that the tax measures against the wine industry announced in the Federal Budget were worse than those imposed by the Liberal-Country Party Government? Will the Minister say whether he had a conference with the South Australian Premier yesterday concerning the impost on brandy? Did the Premier of South Australia remind the Minister of the undertaking he gave to the wine industry of South Australia as State  Chairman  of the Australian Labor Party Federal Election Finance Committee that the election of a Labor Government would save increased excise costs in the future? In view of the fact that the Premier of South Australia is now over the barrel with respect to the impost on brandy, does the Federal Government intend getting him off the barrel by removing this cost that will cause grave problems to the grape industry in South Australia? 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that the Australian Government Publishing Service called tenders for 8 million brochures or pamphlets promoting the yes referendum case before the conclusion of the debate in the Senate? If so, has a tender been let? Is it the intention of the Government to post these brochures to all eligible voters? If so, will the Government also provide 8 million brochures for the promotion of the no vote and enable these to be posted? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. Is it a fact that the Government intends closing the space station at Woomera in South Australia? If so, when will this take place? How many people are likely to lose their jobs as a result of this action? What does the Government intend to do to rehabilitate them? Is the Minister aware that senior research scientists have described this as a short-sighted move which is a blow to Australian space research and to the cause of fundamental scientific research? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Australian Government to proceed with the establishment of a joint uranium enrichment plant in Australia, costing $ 1,000m in particular, with France; if so, where will the plant be situated. 
If the answer to ( 1 ) is in the affirmative, when does the Minister expect the plant to be in operation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Will the Federal Government provide finance to the Flinders University to establish a Solar Energy Institution for research and training in this scientific field. 
Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs been approached concerning the possibility of establishing pilot solar energy plants to serve small aboriginal groups; if so, can the Minister say whether the Government intends providing funds for this purpose. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware of a decision made by Pioneer Tourist Coaches Pty Ltd to discontinue the service from Adelaide to Alice Springs that has been operating 3 times a week? Does the Minister know that the reason the company gives for taking this action was that it cost 200 per cent more per mile to run coaches over the horror stretch north of Pimba to the Northern Territory border than on a sealed road? Does he also know that the company claims that this road is the worst in Australia? I think that is an understatement. In view of the fact that the cancellation of this public transport facility will force about 7,500 people each year to find alternative means of conveyance, and in the interests of many private vehicle owners and other transport companies that rely on this highway, will the Minister treat this road as an urgent priority in the context of the forthcoming Commonwealth aid roads program? In the meantime will the Minister consult with his colleague, the Minister for Supply, with the object of permitting road users to use the sealed highway running through the Woomera rocket range area? 
-I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact that a deputation representing the Alice Springs Tourist Promotion Association and the Ayers Rock Progress Association travelled to Canberra from the Northern Territory earlier this month? Is it also a fact that many of the people in the deputation paid their own fares and incurred heavy personal expenses as a result? Can the Minister say whether arrangements were made to see  Mr Bryant,  then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Charles  Jones, Minister for Transport,  Mr Stewart,  Minister for Tourism, and  Mr Enderby,  then Minister for the Northern Territory? Can the Minister substantiate for me that the first three mentioned did not turn up for the meeting and that  Mr Enderby  was 2 hours late? Can the Minister say whether because of this the Prime Minister has received a letter of protest from the people concerned? As the deputation was anxious to effect early development of facilities in the Ayers Rock area to meet a rapid increase in tourist interest, can the Minister say which member or members of the executive team I have mentioned has responsibility for Ayers Rock so that effective representations can be made on this matter? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I refer to a question asked earlier this week by  Senator Young  relating to questions on notice concerning the proposed petrochemical plant at Redcliffs, in South Australia. I remind the Minister that there are 5 questions on notice in the name of  Senator Young  and one in my name. Before the Minister for Minerals and Energy goes overseas, does he intend to respond to the request to provide answers, or does he intend to evade this issue which is of urgent and immediate interest to South Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. Is the Minister aware that Australian fishermen are concerned about the danger to marine life that could be caused as a result of pollutants emanating from proposed petro-chemical works? Can the Minister say whether his Department has carried out any investigation with respect to effluent from such installations? Is he able to assure the Senate that no pollution of the sea will occur from these plants that could threaten a multi-million dollar Australian industry? 
-On behalf of the Opposition I wish to refer to the second Bill that we are discussing in this cognate debate, namely the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill 1973 which is concerned with the extension of the subsidy paid for the delivery of meals to senior people. The Opposition wholeheartedly supports this legislation, as it supports other Bills that have been referred to by  Senator Davidson.  This is an example of how the Opposition is anxious to give speedy passage to legislation, particularly legislation of this nature which provides benefits to the needy in our community. It is interesting to note that the Opposition has been able to give approval to about 36 Bills that have been introduced into this House during this session. We have seen fit to reject only one Bill and to defer another one. I believe that the criticism by the Government that the Opposition is frustrating it is ill founded. I believe that many of the Bills that we have considered and passed have been improved by the amendments that we have been able to effect. I believe that better legislation has resulted because of our attention to these matters. 
The Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill is in fact an extension of the benefits that were provided by the previous Government, as is the case in regard to many other similar Bills that we are discussing this afternoon. The Bill proposes to increase the subsidy to 354 organisations that have been approved for the purpose of delivering meals to the homes of the senior people of our community. The subsidy is to be increased by 5c in the first instance which will bring it up to 25c from the moment when this Bill is given royal assent. There is also a provision whereby an additional 5c will be paid for each meal provided with an approved vitamin C supplement. This will bring the subsidy to 20c. This is an important aspect in view of the number of people who are being served by these organisations today and the fact that almost 4 million meals were served last year. A considerable number of people are benefiting as a result of this subsidy. 
I was interested to read the report of the survey which was recently conducted in New South Wales on Meals-on- Wheels. It is interesting to note that 70 per cent of these people are living alone, 87 per cent either own or have access to a refrigerator, 38 per cent are able to do some shopping for themselves and there is quite a large number where the family contact pattern is not evident. Also it is interesting to note from the report that the majority of the clients of mealsonwheels organisations are women. Over 50 per cent are over 50 years of age and 85 per cent are suffering from some chronic illness or permanent incapacity. Because these organisations take the trouble to provide meals which comply with dietary requirements for these people, particularly those suffering from chronic illness, the service they render is extraordinarily well appreciated by the people concerned. It is also worthy of note- the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has paid a tribute to this aspect of the service- that is it conducted largely by voluntary workers. Four million meals were provided last year by these people, most of whom are women, driving their own motor vehicles, probably averaging a couple of miles for each meal they deliver. If they were paid 10c a mile for the running of their cars a considerable amount of money would be due to these voluntary workers, not to mention the personal time which they sacrifice and also the physical effort which they have to exert to lift the sometimes fairly heavy containers and to carry the meals into the homes. 
I believe that the senior citizens of our community, probably because of inactivity in their later years, do not really feel the requirement for food which perhaps they did in their younger days. They can easily slip into the habit of not bothering to cook themselves a well balanced meal. In fact, probably they resort to opening a can and they deny themselves the benefit of fresh vegetables and a properly balanced diet. So I believe that this service to the community is a very important one. It is going to grow. Last year the demands on the service grew by something like 13 per cent. This is an indication of just how important the service is and of how many people are taking advantage of it. I wholeheartedly support this Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill. I congratulate the Government on its recognition of the previous Government's work in this area. I hope that the Government will find the finance to increase the subsidy to an even greater extent and to encourage these organisations to expand their activities. 
I would like to refer to the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill 1973. 1 am pleased to see that this Bill provides for the extension of finance to local government authorities in Australia to enable them to provide training centres, training equipment and residential units for handicapped children. I believe that it is wise to involve local government in this activity. Many children in the community will benefit from this piece of legislation. When one considers that in Australia today many children are being held back because of problems associated with, for example, dyslexia, multiple sclerosis and other disabilities that affect their mental processes- deafness, poor vision and so on- one can identify many thousands of children in our communities who require further assistance. This Bill, in my view, will go a long way towards fulfilling this need. It seems to me that the Government has paid some attention to the report on mentally and physically handicapped persons in Australia which was presented in the Senate some dme ago by the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. I know that my colleagues  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield and  Senator Davidson,  were very prominent members of that Committee and worked with other senators on that reference. I believe that the work they did was of tremendous value and I think that in this legislation the Government has recognised, to a degree, the importance of Senate committees. 
I refer to the need to follow up the recommendation of the Committee that a national advisory council for the handicapped be established. If we are to provide local government with more finance for this purpose, it becomes more and more urgent that we provide not only local government authorities but also State governments and church organisations with an expert panel of people who can advise them as to the projects they should embark upon and where their money can be spent most profitably. This legislation will mean that we shall need more social workers, occupational therapists and other people involved with ancillary professions working in this important area for the benefit of the less fortunate children in Australia. So, I remind the Minister for the Media  Senator Douglas  McClelland of the statement made by his colleague, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  this year, I think, that the Commonwealth is to set up a national advisory council on the handicapped. This, I believe, is an urgent need and must be carried out quickly to ensure that the money which we will provide to local government will be used in the best interests of the children to whom I have referred. 
I notice that the Committee, in its report, recommended the allocation of more funds for these purposes, including the establishment of courses of training for professional staff concerned with the handicapped and other matters such as the setting of standards in services for the handicapped throughout Australia. The Committee reported that 44,000 handicapped children had been identified in Australia. I think that is a pretty conservative number. I am quite sure that if we made an intensive examination of this problem we would find that there are nearer 50,000 handicapped children, and possibly more. So, I am quite sure that this is an urgent need. We want to see a national advisory council set up as soon as possible. I commend the Government on the action it has taken in this Bill and urge that an advisory council be established. 
I recall that when this matter was discussed previously I was a member of the House of Representatives, and I voted for Capital Hill. I think that the numbers which voted in support of Capital Hill in that place and in the Senate seemed to indicate clearly that the vast majority was in favour of that site. I was very annoyed that the Gorton Government came out with the announcement that it intended to put parliament house on Camp Hill. That made me really cross. 1 have been disgusted with the procrastination on the whole business over the years. We are not arguing about the urgency of the matter; we all appreciate that we have to get on with the job. I have listened to the debate this afternon and I have been impressed by what  Senator Cavanagh  has said. 
I am very attracted to the action of  Senator Wright  in putting down a Bill to the effect that we ought to prescribe the precincts of the grounds of Parliament House and tidy up this matter in a correct procedural manner. I am persuaded that the correct thing to do is to get a Bill into this chamber as a matter of urgency, and then we can agree with other suggestions that have been made. I agree that we must start the planning of the parliament house straight away and get on with the job. I come down on the side of  Senator Wright's  proposition, although I shall have to be persuaded to change my opinion that Capital Hill is the best site. 
-Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs tell me the exact cost to the Australian people of the Murray Grey bull that was presented to the Red Chinese Government and also the exact cost to transport the beast to China? Does the Chinese Government agree with the claim of the Prime Minister of Australia that he,  Mr Whitlam,  is the greatest Australian Foreign Minister that Australia has ever seen? Is it also a fact that the Chinese Government considers that  Mr Whitlam  is the greatest bull shipper in Australia 's history? 
-I present the following petition from 9 Citizens of the Commonwealth. 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the proposed 'Free' National Health Scheme is not free at all and will cost four out of five Australians more than the present scheme; 
That the proposed scheme is discriminatory and a further erosion of the civil liberties of Australian citizens, particularly working wives and single persons; 
That the proposed scheme is in fact a plan for nationalised medicine which will lead to gross waste and inefficiencies in medical services and will ultimately remove an individual's right to choose his/her own doctor. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the government will take no measures to interfere with the existing health scheme which functions efficiently and economically. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the reasons surrounding the resignation of Professor Strehlow from the Institute of Aboriginal Studies? Is it a fact that, according to a Press statement attributed to him, this occurred as a result of his disagreement with the Federal Government's policies on Aboriginal affairs and that he did not see eye to eye with the Chairman? Can the Minister say when he expects to be able to announce a replacement to this position? 
The Opposition has not changed its attitude in relation to this Bill. We do not lend our support to the proposition before the Senate. The second reading speech made by  Senator Cavanagh  certainly has not done anything to persuade us to change our minds. In fact, his speech is substantially the same as the original second reading speech made by  Senator Willesee  when he introduced a similiar Bill into the Senate.  Senator Cavanagh  did vary his speech slightly from that of  Senator Willesee  by endeavouring to make political capital of the fact that the Australian Country Party member for the Northern Territory,  Mr Calder,  supported the Bill in the House of Representatives and that the Country Party senators chose to oppose the measure in this place. I appreciate  Mr Calder  's stand on the matter and applaud the fact that he demonstrated how we on this side of the chamber have the right to vote according to our own wishes. We are not subject to the will of the Party, as is the unhappy lot of Australian Labor Party senators. Senators, of course, have the duty and responsibility to protect the interests of the States. 
I do not really have to, although I have seen honourable senators on the other side of the chamber do it very frequently. Anyhow, I suggest that honourable senators on this side of the chamber have a different responsibility from that of honourable senators opposite. The Country Party senators, together with all other honourable senators on this side of the chamber, recognised that this Bill jeopardised the position of the States of this country and quite properly exercised their vote accordingly in the interests of the States.  Senator Cavanagh  also referred to a statement purported to have been made by the  Chairman  of the Liberal Party federal electorate conference which was held in the Australian Capital Territory. 
-I know that. He quoted from the newspaper indicating that that conference asked us to support that measure. Here again is an example of how the Liberal Party is quite different from the Labor Party which is subservient to people in the Party who are nonelected people in the country and who have the advantage, so they think, of telling their members of Parliament exactly what they have to do. What I did- I think that it was quite a proper thing to do- was to talk to senior members of the Liberal Party in the Australian Capital Territory and explain the attitude of the Opposition to this Bill. We maintain that the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory have adequate representation. This is particularly so in the Northern Territory. I have my doubts really about the representation in the Australian Capital Territory because of the present incumbent who has done little to give the people of Canberra any confidence. 
However, we have agreed in the Senate to allow for another member of the House of Representatives when redistribution next occurs. Hopefully, at that time the people of the Australian Capital Territory will have a member of the Liberal Party representing them. I would think that there is a strong possibility at the next election that the people of Canberra will have 2 members of the Liberal Party representing them, judging from what I have heard about the present member for the Australian Capital Territory who sits in another place. I reminded people from the Liberal Party who came to speak to me that the Australian Capital Territory has not only an elected member who is their representative in the Parliament but also another Minister whose sole responsibility is to look after the Australian 
Capital Territory. We also have in the Parliament a committee that is comprised of representatives from all parties to watch the interests of Canberra. 
-That probably is the point. But not only has the Australian Capital Territory a committee to look after its interests but, also, the Parliament has seen fit to appoint a Joint Committee for the Northern Territory. I know that honourable senators on both sides of the Senate are represented on that Committee. In addition to the appointment of that Committee we have a Minister for the Northern Territory as well. I am sure that any State of the Commonwealth which had a Minister responsible solely for it would have a very strong voice, or should have, in the Cabinet room. I want to mention also that in the Northern Territory a Legislative Council is operating which gives added stength to the representations that are made from that area. I want to suggest- I support the Liberal Party organisations in this matter- that it is about time we had a look at the question of local government for the Australian Capital Territory. I think that this is an area of need to which we should be paying some attention. I hope that the present Minister will look at that question and do what he can to introduce local government into the Australian Capital Territory as soon as posible. 
I was aware of it. That is why I wanted to give my support for it. The Minister and honourable senators on the Government side ought to be grateful to me for supporting the action that has been taken. I can do no more than reiterate what I said in my previous speech on this matter on 7 June 1973. On that occasion I said: 
We believe that this proposal is contrary to the spirit of the Constitution by which the sovereign States agreed to the establishment of the Federal Parliament. The prime reason for this agreement was that the Senate should be created as a States' assembly with the clear and prime responsibility of protecting the interests of the States, particularly the less populous ones. In order that the smaller States were given full protection, the basic principle of Federation was equality of Senate representation of the original States and that all proposed legislation must have the majority assent of the Senate before being enacted. The people responsible for drafting the Constitution acted very wisely in this respect as this principle gave a reasonable guarantee to the 3 smaller States that they would have an equal voice in the Senate and provided a balance to the House of Representatives where they were decidedly outnumbered by New South Wales and Victoria. We believe that if this Bill were approved, this principle would be destroyed by giving the balance of power to Territorial representatives and the Senate would no longer be a true States' House. 
The passing of this Bill would also open the door- and I believe quite properly- to a request from other Territories of Australia to seek Senate representation, and this would create a precedent for the admission of 2 senators from the Australian Antarctic, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Island, Heard Island, McDonald Island and Norfolk Island. A further 12 senators could conceivably be added to the number of senators in this place. I think that this Bill is a further attempt by the present Government to weaken the States. 
And undoubtedly, in the long term, it would be the thin edge of the wedge towards the abolition of the Senate which, I understand, is the driving ambition of some honourable senators opposite. 
I understand that the Representation Bill is consequential upon the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill. Therefore, the Opposition rejects both of these Bills. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. In view of the fact that mercury has been detected in fish in the vicinity of the Derwent River and other Australian waters, can the Minister say what the Australian Council of the Environment is doing with respect to industrial effluent control? Is it the intention of the Council to formulate recommendations so that State governments and the Commonwealth can adopt standard procedures to prevent pollution of Australian waters? I also would like the Minister to tell me why he is not sitting at the table next to his colleague  Senator Murphy. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Secondary Industry say whether the Government's decision to reduce tariffs on imported parts for colour television sets will create unemployment among the 40,000 people currently employed in the electronics industry in Australia? Is the Minister aware that Australian electronic companies could now profitably transfer operations to countries such as Mexico, Argentina and Singapore to carry out technical production, leaving cabinet filling and packaging to be undertaken in Australia? Does the Federal Government realise the importance of retaining in this country people who are highly qualified in electronic science? What does the Government intend to do to offset the possible drift of such people overseas? As the present inflationary trend is continually eroding the effects of tariffs and as the rate of sales tax on television appliances is 27.5 per cent, will the Government give serious consideration to reducing the sales tax on television sets? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Minister for Minerals and Energy, in interfering with South Australia's industrial development is placing greater store on Australian equity, rather than expertise associated with the proposed petro-chemical works at Redcliffs, undoubtedly to the detriment of that State 's interests. 
Has the Government approached the Dow Chemical consortium and the Imperial Chemical IndustriesAlcoaMitsubishi consortium to see whether they are prepared to invite Australian investment in those companies; if not, will the Minister follow this course. 
Did Ampol Petroleum Ltd indicate to the Premier of South Australia,  Mr D.  Dunstan, a few weeks ago, that it was not contemplating partnership in the venture and that C.S.R., the other company concerned, has shown very little interest; if so, does this suggest that the Minister has exerted some influence on Ampol Australia Ltd to reconsider its attitude to this project. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social 
Security. I refer to the recent decision by the Government to pay a special benefit of up to $23 a week to pregnant unmarried girls under 16 years of age. Can the Minister give me an estimate of the number of girls who would be in this category each year and the anticipated annual cost involved in paying this benefit? Is this an open-ended handout? If so, as this undoubtedly will encourage promiscuity among young girls, will the Minister ask his colleague in another place to give consideration to restricting this benefit to one such pregnancy? 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, 1 present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Dripstone High School, Darwin, Northern Territory and Stage 6 Extension of the Stokes Hill Power Station, Darwin. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to a recent Press statement attributed to the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner in which he disclosed Federal Government plans for the purchase of a fleet of luxury suburban rail cars, costing millions of dollars, which will bring a boom era in urban rail travel, and also that a national study team has been set up to design new carriages which will be coming off the assembly lines in 4 or 5 years. I do not expect the Minister - 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy inform me what percentage of petrol used in Australia is derived from local crudes? As mineral exploration has suffered severe setbacks as a result of disincentives created by the Government's policies, what does the Government intend to do to encourage a stepping up of oil exploration so that Australia can become independent of overseas sources? 
Firstly, I would like to remind  Senator McLaren  that I rose to my feet before he did and I decided to defer to him to allow him to speak first. The honourable senator did so in typical fashion.  His  speech was an attempt to denigrate senators from South Australia on this side of the House. He tried to delude the people of Australia into believing that the Redcliffs project will be placed in jeopardy if this Bill is not passed in its present form. That is a lot of absolute nonsense because anyone who has any common sense will realise very quickly the truth of what  Senator Cotton  said yesterday- that the Government can introduce a Bill to this place requesting money for the Australian Industry Development Corporation to expand on its present base. I think it is quite irresponsible for  Senator McLaren  to suggest that the Opposition, without giving any proper consideration, should support a Bill that has been rushed in here. As far as I am concerned I will not be a party to such a suggestion. 
I think it is fair to suggest that not many people really understand the AIDC as such.  Senator Maunsell  reminded us earlier in this debate that the Corporation was conceived by a previous Liberal-Country Party government under the ministerial guidance of  Sir John  McEwan to provide assistance to companies which wished to expand their activities, which were unable to raise sufficient finance or, in fact, in some instances required expertise. The whole concept of this Corporation was to enable such companies to approach the Corporation for help in this regard. It is fair to emphasise that this help would not be forthcoming unless the company made an approach to the AIDC for assistance. I think that this partnership between government and private industry is an ideal arrangement which has contributed a great deal to the mutual development of Australian industry. 
But the proposal that we have before us at the moment is quite clear. The Government wants to effect radical changes to this concept by extending the functions of the Corporation. The Bill sets out that the functions of the Corporation will include securing 'to the greatest extent that is practicable, participation by Australian residents in the ownership and control of companies engaging in any such industries or activities'. The Bill will enable the AIDC to initiate projects by intruding into industry without being asked and it will be able to retain shares it acquires in such companies. This is a far-reaching change in the concept of this Corporation. It is not surprising to me that a Labor government would want to use this body as an instrument for socialism and no one can convince me that the proposed expansion of the AIDC is not a blatant attempt to socialise industry in Australia. Under the present charter the Corporation cannot be used to nationalise industry. 
The honourable senator is quite right. The constitutional implications of this legislation- I will deal with this in more detail later in my speech- are far-reaching. The charter as we know it at the moment, provides that industry cannot be nationalised. The Corporation is not subject to government direction at the moment. According to the charter the Corporation has to avoid becoming or remaining in a position in which it is able to control or manage the affairs of a company to which it provides assistance. It can maintain only minority holdings in firms in which it invests and it is obliged to be rid of its equity holdings in a company as soon as practicable. This is a sure safeguard against a government take-over. 
The Bill removes all these obstacles. I recall what was said by  Mr Wiltshire,  the  President  of the Australian Industries Development Association, on this matter. He said that should this new Act be passed it will: 
. specifically empower the AIDC to invest in or to form or participate in the formation of a new company, and to carty on any business or activity concerned with manufacture, processing, treatment, transportation or distribution of goods; or the development of natural resources including the recovery of minerals. 

 Mr Wiltshire also said: 
There are to be no limits to the AIDC acquiring ownership and control of industries. The AIDC will therefore be able to divert all or part of what it raises into government ownership or control of industry, in what will be in essence an under-cover operation. 
There will be no requirement that the details of its activities be made known publicly or to the Parliament apart from certain information related to the National Investment Fund. This could lead in simple terms to undercover nationalisation and socialisation of industry. 
This Bill must be the dream of every socialist sitting on the Government benches. It provides that the Board of Directors appointed, as I understand, by the Minister will include the Secretary of the Department of Secondary Industry and the Secretary of the Department of Minerals and 
Energy. The Government therefore will have direct access to the Board of Directors and in addition it will be in a position to influence the Board decisions. In addition, a resolution signed by 5 members of the Board will constitute a resolution of the Board, provided that three of these are part time directors. This means that decisions of the Board may be taken without the knowledge of the executive chairman or the Government representative. 
Under the existing charter the Corporation operates on a limited scale in the general field of merchant banking in fair competition with private enterprise. However, the new proposition will extend its range of activities considerably to bring it into direct competition not only with merchant and investment banks but also with life insurance offices, unit trusts and superannuation funds for the general public, savings banks and building societies, none of which has the special privileges that will be heaped upon the Corporation under the proposals before the Senate. 
There are 4 areas of special advantage provided in this Bill. First of all there is the proposed capital subsidy of 10 per cent on subscriptions to the development bond divisions of the National Investment Fund. This will compete directly with unit trusts. Secondly, there is the intended exemption of the Corporation from Federal and State stamp duties on its lending and borrowing documents and probably on its bills of exchange, promissory notes and market operations. This new measure would bring the AIDC into direct competition with a wider range of institutions, all of which are required to pay various Federal and State government duties. 
Thirdly, this proposal aims at changing the 30/20 rule of the Income Tax Act governing the investment of assets of life insurance offices and superannuation funds, thereby providing a captive source of income for this Corporation. Apparently it is intended that funds invested in the proposed superannuation and retirement fund and in savings divisions of the National Investment Fund will not be subjected to the various restrictions applied to other organisations relating to investment and taxation. These 4 advantages would place the AIDC well ahead of existing private organisations working in this field and performing similar functions. Therefore, it is unfair. I find these proposals offensive as they will place this government instrumentality in a position of privilege. In point of fact they provide for acquisition of control over various industries without the approval of Parliament. In addition, the AIDC is provided with an open ended commitment to subsidise earnings and underwrite losses of a sector of the community in the form of subscribers to development bonds without regard to needs or means, and finally because of their inevitably damaging impact on the instrumentalities which pioneered the fields in which the Corporation is now to intervene. 
It is important to stress to the Senate that this Corporation is not accountable to Parliament. I raise the question of the constitutional implications of this Bill. In section 5 1 ( 1 ) of the Constitution rests the power on which the Commonwealth has the authority to legislate the Act and the amending Bill. This section states: 
The Parliament shall, subject to the Constitution, have power to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to ( 1 ) 
This is the paragraph I am concerned about. 
Trade and commerce with other countries and other among the States. 
This seems to me to introduce some dangerous implications. It suggests to me that the Government could quite properly become involved in intra-State matters. For a proper appreciation of the political implications of the proposals for amendment in this Bill it is important to remember the wide scope of interpretation which has already been given to this section by the High Court. I think  Senator Byrne  would agree. Was it the case of the Airlines Bill in 1946 where this was evidenced? 
There is evidence that this has been widened to include the matters to which I have referred. It is particularly important to remember that a law within a Commonwealth incidental power is not required to have the same subject matter as that contained in the main grant of power as enunciated in that section to which I have referred. 
One of the dangerous implications of this Bill is that this Commonwealth power could conceivably extend to intra-State matters. I think it is quite conceivable that with the wide scope of this section of the Constitution and the incidental powers, the Commonwealth could control nontrade, non-commerce and also non-interstate matters provided it could be shown that the regulated matter assisted the exercise of or was an appropriate means to the grant under section 5 1 ( 1 ). I wonder whether this could lead to the Corporation conscripting people to some of its enterprises. For example, it might want to establish a solar energy plant in the middle of Australia. It might find it difficult to attract people up there to work. So far as I know there is nothing in the Constitution that says it would not be able to conscript people civilly. The only section I can see which refers to that is section 51 (23a), referring to the provision of maternity allowance, etc., where in brackets after dental services it says: 
But  Dot so  as to authorise any form of civil conscription. 
I know that is a far reaching sort of matter, but it occurred to me that that would not be beyond the realms of possibility. There are other constitutional implications associated with the Bill that are extremely dangerous, and it seems appropriate that a more detailed examination of them should be made. I think the Democratic Labor Party has proposed a very sensible amendment. While referring to the constitutional implications of the Bill, I refer to the appointment of Professor Colin Howard as a legal counsel to the AttorneyGeneral recently. I shall quote from an article in the 'Age' of 16 November 1973. It is interesting to observe this comment. 
As Constitutional adviser to  Senator Murphy,  Professor Howard can be expected to take a strong line on the need for the Government to fully exploit the Constitution when legislating. He does not say it in so many words, but he will be exhorting his masters to have a go. 
I think that in this particular Bill the masters are certainly trying to have a go. I notice that in common with  Senator McLaren, Dr Cairns  has become over-emotional about the passage of this Bill, although  Senator Byrne  read the answer to a question in which he had no objection to this being referred to the appropriate senate committee. For him to suggest that the Redcliffs petro-chemical project in South Australia would be threatened is a lot of absolute hogwash. 

 - Senator Young is perfectly right in pointing to the blatant political exercise that is being carried on in an attempt to create an over-emotional reaction in South Australia and pointing also to the blatant attempt to blackmail honourable senators on this side of the House into voting for the Bill in its present form. I noted very carefully the telegram that was sent to us today. I also noted that in South Australia the Liberal movement voted with the Government. This is very significant because either it has some socialistic leaning- it seems to me to be supporting the Labor Party against the Liberal-Country League in South Australia so often that it makes me believe that it ought to join the Labor Party -or it has not the sense or the intelligence to read the Bill thoroughly and recognise it as a blatant piece of socialistic legislation. 
I support the motion, so thoughtfully drafted by  Senator Byrne,  to refer this Bill to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control for a detailed examination of the implications of widening the scope of this Corporation. Although this will necessitate a delay in the passing of this legislation it will provide, very importantly, the people of Australia and honourable senators with a much needed critical examination and with evidence from all sectors. In this way we will be able to make an informed and properly considered judgment of the matter. 
I use the opportunity of the debate on the Appropriation Bills to emphasise the importance to Australia of our future energy supplies.  Senator Lawrie  mentioned in his speech that we would be in serious trouble if we did not take a long term look at this question. The Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  recently suggested that it looks as though Australia will be out of fossil fuels, except for coal, in less than 1 5 years. I notice that he made some statement yesterday in the Parliament to the effect that coal will be used as a bridging energy source between the fuels we are using now and the use of uranium and solar energy. However hard we try, when using coal as an energy source and for the extraction of fuel, it will be extremely difficult to completely clean the gases that emanate from the use of coal. It is quite apparent to world scientists that the silent pollutant, carbon dioxide, is increasing in the atmosphere and will cause us great concern in the future. Other pollutants from conventional fuels are proliferating other gases in the atmosphere, not the least of these being the sulphurous gases which will be causing emphysema and other such health problems if we persist with this type of energy source. 
Of course, I am putting a case for solar energy. Australia is a country that can well look forward to a very prosperous future if it concentrates on solar energy right now. Scientists say that it will take about 20 years to perfect this source of energy but I am convinced, and there is scientific backing for my belief, that the development of solar energy can be accelerated and that probably within 10 years solar energy could be a definite proposition for Australia. Professor Bockriss, head of the Department of Physical Sciences at the Flinders University, has taken a very active interest in this subject. He has requested that Federal funds be made available to that University to provide added research facilities in an attempt to make solar energy economically possible in a shorter time. I realise that this development will cost a lot of money but I think that Australia needs to be forward looking in this area. 
We should realise that 59 per cent of our continent is desert. I would say that per unit of area more sun falls on this continent than on any other country. For example, Alice Springs has 9.7 hours of sunshine a day. This is a source of energy without pollution; it is probably the only source of energy that ecologists would welcome because it is a non pollutant in every respect. Of course, it is possible, having established a solar energy farm, to pipe charged hydrogen to any capital city or any concentration of population wishing to use it. It can be converted and used to generate the power we require in Australia. It is interesting to note that by the year 2000 the energy requirements of the world will be three to five times what they are today. In addition to the conversion of charged hydrogen for capital cities and other areas requiring power, it is quite possible that the charged hydrogen could be liquefied and transported to other countries which require this source of power. Probably it could be argued that we should sell all our coal overseas and use the money that accrues from such sales to accelerate our efforts towards developing solar energy. I think Australia could certainly become the world's source of solar energy, a source upon which countries could well rely. 
-I would just like to add something to what has been said already about this matter. I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  whether I am correct in assuming that a suite of offices was or is being leased by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Woden at a cost of $155,000 a year for the use, as I understand it, of Applied Ecology Pty Ltd and as an office for the turtle farm project. I would like the Minister to inform me what is to be done with the suite of offices? Will the suite still be required for the Department's use in view of the uncertainty of the turtle farm project? Can the Minister tell me whether the expenditure of $155,000 a year for the leasing of the suite of offices was, in fact, unnecessary? 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Labour been drawn to a circular letter being used by the Department of Labour in South Australia for circulation to school leavers relating to employment assistance opportunities? Has he noted the last sentence of this document which states: 
You are reminded that persons who are not working and are 16 years of age or over are eligible to apply for unemployment benefit. Payment of this benefit is not automatic and only commences from the date of personal application. If you wish to claim you should call at this office as soon as possible. 
Does the Minister agree that this invitation is counter-productive with respect to filling job vacancies particularly at harvest time, which is imminent, and an encouragement to irresponsible people to bludge on the taxpayers of Australia? 
I think that the amount of interest in this debate can be gauged by the number of honourable senators who have been present in the chamber. It seems to me that on the Government side an average of about 3 honourable senators have been listening to this debate, whereas on the Opposition side we have managed to sustain about 1 7 or 1 8 honourable senators in the chamber. 
I believe that is a measure of the interest that the Opposition takes in education. I can understand why my friend interjects, so furiously, his conscience is pricked. He has not been in the chamber for quite a long period this evening. I suggest that this Bill has been chosen by the Government as a vehicle by which to conduct a malicious campaign against the Opposition. I believe the Government has been intent on deceiving the electorate throughout Australia. It has claimed that we are not interested in the Karmel report and oppose its recommendations, but that is a lot of nonsense; it is dishonourable for the Government to suggest that. We are anxious that school children throughout Australia should be given the benefit of the recommendations in the Karmel report; we are anxious to provide the $640m-odd for this purpose. 
Of course, the main bone of contention about the whole business has been that the Opposition has chosen to adopt an honourable stance with regard to recurrent grants to systemic schools. The promise which was made by the Governmentby the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  - that it would not disadvantage any student as a result of its education policies has been repeatedly emphasised this evening. We note that the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  has referred to one particular category A school and suggested that the reason why it had been placed in category A was that it had a teacher-pupil ratio of one to seventeen. I think that this tends to bring out the cargo cult attitude to education of the Australian Labor Party. It is all very well for certain schools to have first-class school room accommodation, with perhaps the occasional swimming pool dotted here and there, but if they choose to spend their money on providing more teachers for the benefit of their students they are placed in category A. 
They are penalised for having the foresight of providing extra teachers. This again demonstrates the distorted view of the Australian Labor Party. 
As the honourable senator says, they are certainly taxpayers. I wish to remind the Senate of one or two schools in category A that have been referred to this evening.  Senator McManus  referred to a Jewish school that is in dire straits because of the threatened Government action relating to per capita grants to its students.  Senator Rae  has given three other examples. One school in the suburbs of Melbourne has 53 migrant students, many of whose parents are both working to keep the child at this school. These people are being penalised because the school has been placed in category A. I understand from  Senator Rae  that the standard of the school is not pleasing at all. 
-Yes. In all probability this is another example of a school which has a few extra teachers, and this factor caused it to be placed in category A.  Senator Rae  also mentioned the Australian Independent School in Sydney. I understand that he has had experience of that school. He has told me that the headmaster has a caravan for a study and that a converted bus is serving as the staff room. Because that school has a few more teachers than other schools, it is placed in category A.  Senator Rae  gave as an example the Loreto Convent in Portland, Victoria. Because there happens to be at that school a number of retired nuns who do some part-time teaching, its category has been lifted to category A. These 3 schools and the one referred to by  Senator McManus  have students whose parents have a modest background and, in fact, have to make considerable sacrifices to send their children to the schools. Yet the Government, which purports to represent the less affluent members of our society, has chosen to dishonour a promise made before and since the election with regard to persistent per capita grants for this type of school. 
I was glad to hear  Senator Wright  remind the Minister of the statement he made earlier when he chose to refer to the promise by  Mr Whitlam  in his policy speech on 13 November that a Labor Government would continue all grants under the Commonwealth legislation throughout 1973. However, the Minister forgot to mention that the promise continued, stating that the Government would allocate the increased grants for 1974 and subsequent years on the basis of recommendations prepared and published by the Schools Commission. The terms of reference laid down by the Labor Government for this Schools Commission state: 
The grants recommended by the Interim Committee will be: 
for the period 1 January 1974 to 31 December 1975; 
in addition to existing Commonwealth commitments; 
directed towards increased expenditure on schools and not in substitution for continuing efforts by the States and non-government school authorities. 
I believe that it is also relevant to read from a statement on the Karmel report made by the Australian Episcopal Conference in August 1973. The Conference of Catholic Bishops unanimously made the following brief statement on the report of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission: 
We have endorsed the report submitted to us by the Federal Catholic Committee. 
Among other things the Conference made the following statement: 
In view then ofthe many positive aspects ofthe Report, the Australian Bishops regret that some serious reservations must be made. We particularly regret that the principle of a basic recurrent grant to every Australian child has been abandoned. We support the overall right of all citizens to a freedom of choice in education, a right that the State should recognise in an effective way by giving all citizens, all children, some access to public funds for education. It is, therefore a matter for deep concern, with possible dangerous implications and consequences for the future, that the Interim Committee was unable to make a recommendation that would keep this principle inviolate, while reconciling it with the other principle that greater assistance should be given in areas of greater need. Such a reconciliation should be, we believe, the objective of future efforts aimed at removing divisions and disputes arising from a consequent sense of grievance. 
We most urgently ask the Australian Government to achieve this reconciliation by including in its program effective assistance to every child in the form of a basic recurrent grant. Meanwhile as a first practical measure, we ask the Australian Government to revert to the recommendation of the Interim Committee to continue aid to the schools in the highest categories in 1974. 
That sums up quite nicely the attitude of the Australian Episcopal Conference to this matter. 
I have already said that. 
Those present were Cardinals Freeman and Knox; Archbishops Cahill, Carroll, Gleeson, Goody, Rush and Young; Bishops Brennan, Carroll, Faulkner, Fox, Gallagher Jobst, E. Kelly, J. Kelly, H. Kennedy, P. Kennedy, Little, McCabe, McKeon, Morgan, Muldoon, Mulkearns, O 'Loughlin, Perkins, Prasko, Quinn, Rooney, Stewart, A. Thomas, F. Thomas, Toohey and Torpie 
-Thank you. I could not pronounce that name. I thank you  Senator Rae  for your help. But this is a matter of conscience as far as we are concerned. The Labor Party has no conscience with respect to honouring its promises. The Liberal Party, the Australian Country Party and the Democratic Labor Party fully support the implementation of the Karmel recommendations in this Bill. But we are adamant that the Labor Party should honour its pre-election and post-election promises that no student in Australia will be disadvantaged as a result of its education policy. 
-I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Health to the organisation called 'Recovery ' which is performing a very important service in the community by rehabilitating people suffering from nervous disorders. I believe that the Minister is well aware of the work that this organisation is doing. Can he say whether the Federal Government has approved a grant for the establishment of a national secretariat for 'Recovery'? If the Government has approved such a grant, can he say when the money will be made available to the organisation which is anxious to proceed with this urgent project? 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did a deputation representing the Alice Springs Tourist Promotion Association and the Ayers Rock Progress Association travel from the Northern Territory to Canberra earlier in October 1973. 
Did many of the members of the deputation pay their own fares and incur other heavy expenses as a result of their visit to Canberra. 
Were arrangements made for the deputation to see the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Minister for Transport, the Minister for Tourism and Recreation and the then Minister for the Northern Territory; if so, did the first three Ministers not attend the meeting and was the then Minister for the Northern Territory two hours late. 
Has the Prime Minister received a letter of protest from the Associations. 
Will the Minister, in view of the fact that the deputation is anxious to effect early development of facilities in the Ayers Rock area due to increased tourist interest, inform the Senate which of the Ministers referred to in (3) have responsibility for Ayers Rock, so that effective representations may by made on this matter. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the Government fair dinkum about its anxiety to control inflation in Australia? If so, why has the Cabinet made the irresponsible decision to provide an annual leave loading to Commonwealth public servants that will cost at least $27m a year? How does the Government expect the rest of the community to resist copying this example which, in the face of the state of the economy, can only be described as gross mismanagement? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour. I refer to the S-week-old strike initiated by the Ship Painters and Dockers Union at the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd shipyard in Whyalla. Is the Minister aware that this dispute arose as a result of the sacking of a painter working in the shipyard? Is he also aware that BHP offered to re-employ the worker very early in the dispute in order that the issue be settled by arbitration? Can the Minister tell me whether the Government intervened at that stage to urge the union to discuss this matter at arbitration? If not, can the Minister say why the Government did not take such action? Is the Minister aware that the delay in settling this argument has cost Whyalla workers more than $300,000 and that the wives of many of these unionists recently demonstrated their feelings in opposition to the dispute in an attempt to get the workers to return to work? Can the Minister say when the Government expects that this dispute will be settled? 
The Opposition will not oppose these Bills which, I understand, are before the Senate in the form of a cognate debate. On the contrary any positive step towards decentralisation and development in regional areas meets with the full approval of the Opposition Parties. I should like to refer in particular for a moment to the Albury-Wodonga Development Bill 1973 because there are some aspects of the legislation which have given concern to the residents living in that area. I believe that the questions associated with the proposal should be answered before the Bills are passed by the Senate. I hope that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  will be able to answer some of the residents' questions. The whole bone of contention was drawn to my attention when I received a telegram from, I presume, the Secretary of the Albury-Wodonga Growth Centre Land Holders Association,  Mr R.  P. Adams. The telegram stated that the Albury-Wodonga residents are strongly opposed to many features of the development legislation and urge the Opposition in the Senate to refer the Bill to the appropriate Senate committee for detailed examination and full debate. 
-I am not aware of the identity of the gentleman to that degree. I understand that the residents in the area could be concerned about the situation. I received a deputation today from the councils of the City of Albury and the City of Wodonga. They put it to me that the consultative committee did not seem to pay a great deal of attention to consulting local people about the development in this area. It seems that the consultative committee and the State Government made some decisions and then told the local people about them rather than doing it the other way and ascertaining the local feeling first. It should be remembered that the envisaged corporation will pre empt and in fact render local government virtually unnecessary with respect to the development of 30,000 acres that is proposed to be acquired in this particular area. Clause 8 of the Bill states: 
1 ) The functions of the Corporation under this Act are- 
to provide, in relation to the growth complex, engineering, architectural, town and country planning, building, construction and other services for Australia and for authorities of Australia; 
That part of the Bill mystifies me somewhat. Perhaps the Minister might let me know a little more about it. I am referring to the part which refers to 'other services for Australia and for authorities of Australia'. 
Referring to local government in particular, it seems that this Corporation will have open ended control over the development and construction of roads etc. within the area defined by this particular complex and that local government virtually will be non-existent. In effect, it means that a corporation which is selected by the Commonwealth and the States will have the say over what goes on in that area. This means that the elected representation aspect of this sort of development will be ignored. I think the local government authorities in that area have a case for participation, although I believe the matter would be more properly dealt with by State Government legislation referring to these land acquisition commissions and the Development Corporation itself. It appears to me that the State Government should consider providing some sort of time limit, perhaps 5 years, during which the Corporation can operate without local government participation and after that particular period the land should be handed back to the local government authority to deal with in the usual way. 
Another matter which again I think would be more properly dealt with by State legislation is the acquisition of land. I believe that when Federal funds are being used for this purpose the land should be acquired on just terms and also that the right of appeal against a valuation ought to be provided. I do not think that there is any purpose in suggesting that that ought to be properly done in the context of these Bills. However, I suggest to the Minister that it would be appropriate for the Australian Government to recommend this action to the State governments in the matters to which I have referred. 
The Opposition approves wholeheartedly the concept of the development in this area. It is in keeping with the policy of the Liberal Party to encourage development in these areas. One thing that does concern me with respect to the appointment of the Corporation is that it Will have 5 members, one appointed by the Australian Government and one appointed by each State. There Will be 2 local government appointees. I point out and stress the point that the quorum for the Corporation wil be three which could effectively allow the Government appointees completely to control the operations of the Corporation. I ask the Minister to look at that matter also and to make sure that there is proper consultation with local government. 
I was a bit disappointed that the debate in the other place was somewhat curtailed when the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  rose in an attempt to speak for 3 or 4 minutes on the BUI in relation to the development in the Monarto region in South Australia. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  was rather unkind.  Mr Giles  was sat down and gagged on this occasion, in spite of the fact that he wished to speak for only a short time. I thought that the Minister adopted a very high handed attitude to  Mr Giles  on that occasion when he suggested that none of the questions would be answered because of the attempt by  Mr Giles  to have a word on this matter. That makes it more important that the Minister in this place answer the questions which I have put to him about the effect on local government and also the operation of the Corporation as it effects the operation of other authorities in Australia. 
One other aspect to which I wish to refer is a question which was raised by  Senator Young  at an Estimates Committee meeting not long ago. 
He said that some money was to be spent from the Department of Secondary Industry vote on the Albury-Wodonga area. He was referring to the proposed expenditure of $85,000 in the estimates for that Department. He assumed that a lot of this money would be spent in the AlburyWodonga area and he was not critical of this. But he also referred to the Monarto development area in South Australia and wanted to know how much money would be forthcoming from that Department for use in the South Australian project. The officer of the Department indicated very quickly that the money was not set aside for use by the States but was indicative of an undertaking to provide information and research which would assist the government concerned. I suggest that with developments of this type, particularly those on the banks of the river which means so much to South Australia, every effort ought to be exerted to ensure that pollution of the River Murray water is minimal. My great concern is that any development in States upstream of South Australia must have this point foremost in mind, as South Australia is experiencing great difficulties because of the pollution of the River Murray. I leave that thought with the Minister and ask him to keep it in mind whenever the Albury-Wodonga development is being considered. I ask him to pay due regard also to the concern which has been expressed by local government councillors in the region because I believe that local involvement in these projects is essential to their successful completion. 
I should like quickly to follow up the matter raised by  Senator Hannan.  I mention my concern about the lack of consultation with local government authorities in the Albury-Wodonga area, but I want to go a little further. I am anxious to hear the Minister's reply to  Senator Hannan,  but I ask whether, if sufficient consultation has not been carried out with local government authorities in the area, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  will send senior officers of his Department to that area in order to give the people an opportunity to make complete and thorough explanations regarding their concern particularly about local government functions. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware of the rumour which is current among residents who live in the vicinity of the Adelaide Airport that the South Australian Government has approached the Federal Minister seeking to have the Adelaide Airport declared an international airport? Is this a fact? Has this request been made? If it has, can the Minister say whether the Government is likely to agree? 
This question is supplementary to the question I asked previously of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, which I claim was not answered. The substantive part of my question asked whether it is a fact that the South Australian Government has approached the Minister for Transport with a request that the new Adelaide Airport be declared an international airport and, if so, whether the Government intends to agree with that request. 
-The 2 Bills that we are debating tonight are probably the most significant Bills we have dealt with since the Australian Labor Party came into power. The Government's proposal really amounts to throwing out a health scheme that has been shown to be one of the most effective health schemes in the world. It has been the envy of many countries. These countries would very much like to get rid of the nationalised scheme they have introduced and opt for the scheme we have in Australia. I think this was made abundantly clear when  Mr Detwiller  came to Australia last year to look at our scheme. He was one of the experts in health care in Canada. Of course, the scheme we are discussing tonight is based on the Canadian health scheme.  Mr Detwiller,  who is a very well qualified man, said that the Australian health scheme had a lot going for it. 
I recall reading a statement by  Mr Potter,  who is the Health Minister in Ontario, Canada, that the Government had created a monster which was in effect devouring the economy and that people would be well advised to stop this monster before it consumed the resources of the country. In Ontario, the health scheme expenses appear to be growing at the rate of 13 per cent per annum, whereas the gross national product is increasing by about 9 per cent per annum. So, it is quite clear that countries that have already established the scheme that the Labor Party contemplates introducing in Australia have regretted it and in fact envy our scheme which I believe caters for 100 per cent of the population. I venture to suggest that no one in Australia is denied medical or hospital treatment today. 
The Minister in another place has tried to suggest that only 87 per cent of the population is covered by health insurance. Previous speakers tonight have said and proved that 92 per cent of the people are covered by health insurance in one way or another. I know for a fact that the medical profession still has the Hippocratic tendency to provide health care for people whether they can afford to pay for it or not. So I believe I am right in saying that the people of Australia have a 100 per cent health cover. We have decided to oppose this Bill, and I believe that we are acting in the best interests of the Australian people. The Liberal Party and the Opposition generally recognise that the existing scheme needs some attention. We recognise the fact that changing needs demand a revision of our present health scheme. I know that in certain areas the existing scheme needs a complete review, and I will say a little more about this later. 
Because we believe that the proposal of the socialist Minister will mean a downgrading of the medical service and a consequent lowering of the standards of health care to Australian families, because it will destroy the existing scheme, increase the total cost to the Government and for the majority of taxpayers, because it will mean the end of private and religious hospitals, and, above all because it will mean the end of the freedom of choice of patients with respect to their doctor or hospital, we totally reject the Bill. It seems quite incredible to me in the face of this that the Government has pre-empted a decision of this Parliament and has set aside some millions of dollars to purchase a computer which will be installed to administer this scheme. I think it would be reasonable to suggest that if a referendum were held on the question whether the Government should have centralised control over the national health of the people of Australia, and ultimately control over doctors, the Government would receive an even more convincing defeat than it suffered last Saturday, when it attempted to take over control of the prices and incomes of the people of Australia. 
I repeat what  Senator Webster  said when he referred to the utterances of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  He said that the Labor Party was a socialist party and that its aim regarding medical care was the establishment of public enterprise. I was most interested to read in a recent issue of the ' Bulletin ' a comment made by the Commonwealth Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham).  The article states. 
Commonwealth Health Minister Doug Everingham in an exclusive interview told the 'Bulletin' last week that he saw community health centres eventually catering for between 80 and 90 per cent of general practitioners services in Australia, leaving private practice fee-for-service doctors only 10 to 20 per cent of business. Everingham said that he saw Australia moving toward the pattern in England and the Soviet Union, where only a well-off few use private doctors. 
That in itself is quite clear. In my view it is indisputable that in the long term the Labor Party intends to socialise the medical profession and the hospital system of Australia. If the proposals of the Government were adopted, most people would certainly pay more.  Senator O'Byrne  and other honourable senators on the Government side have maintained that it will be cheaper for three out of four people in Australia. I heard  Senator Little  demonstrate quite forcefully and quite conclusively that this is not the case. He demonstrated that the Deeble report on health insurance differed quite significantly from the White Paper that has been brought down by the Government in recent days. 
I have done a little research into this matter as well. I was interested to find that 37 per cent of all taxpayers comprise husband and wife combinations, both of whom are contributing to the family income. Almost all of the people who fall into this category would be worse off financially under the Labor scheme by paying the compulsory 1.35 per cent of taxable income. I think  Senator Little  spelled this out quite clearly, chapter and verse. Thirty-two per cent of the taxpayers of Australia are single, and the vast majority of these people would be penalised under the proposed scheme, because under the present scheme they pay less to a private insurance fund than their married counterparts. Of the 3 1 per cent in the latter group in which only one person in the family contributes to the family income, about half will be better off and half worse off. Therefore I think it would be fair to suggest that the number of taxpayers in Australia who will be paying more will more likely be four out of five. 
I turn to the effect of the proposed health scheme on hospitals. It is fair to suggest that if the compulsory taxation levy of 1.35 per cent is applied to people in Australia, human nature being what it is, the average citizen will opt for a public bed because he will be required to pay extra to a private fund for intermediate or private ward accommodation. In fact, the additional estimated cost for 1974-75 for the average family for intermediate ward accommodation in a public hospital would be $1.25 a week; accommodation in a private ward would cost an additional $1.96 a week; and accommodation in a private hospital would cost an additional $2.50 a week. So it can be seen that this represents a considerable extra cost to those people concerned. If human nature prevails, it will mean that lower income groups and pensioners, who are now given means test protection with respect to public beds, will suffer. These are the people, of course, that the Labor Party purports to champion, but they would suffer because of the lack of hospital accommodation in the public wards. Public hospitals would quickly become overcrowded; private hospitals would become empty and would be forced to offer the Government a number of public beds in order to survive. I think it is interesting to note that the number of such beds and the rate of subsidy for such hospitals would be determined by the Minister. It is quite conceivable that a hospital with 150 beds would offer to the Government, say, 20 beds and the Minister could say: 'We need 100 beds'. This is spelled out quite clearly in the Bill. Clause 34 of the Bill states, in part: 
Where the Minister approves an application under subsection ( 2 ), he shall determine the number of beds at the hospital to which the approval relates. 
There is payable by Australia to an organisation to which this section applies a supplementary daily bed payment, at a rate fixed by the Minister . . . 
It is quite clear to me that ultimately this would mean the death of the private hospitals and their complete takeover by the Commonwealth so that public ward accommodation could be satisfied. This is particularly significant in relation to South Australia where at the present time in excess of 40 per cent of hospital beds are provided by private hospitals. The figure is approximately 44 per cent and this, of course, gives me great concern. I recall that  Dr Moss  Cass is reported to have said that private hospitals and private nursing homes are irrelevant to the Labor Party's concept of a national health scheme and that the vast majority of people could easily be catered for in the public hospital sector. In view of that statement I find it quite incredible that the Labor Government should suggest that it does not want to nationalise or socialise medicine. We have clear evidence of Ministers of the present Government clearly indicating the Government's intentions. I understand the socialist motive behind what they suggest. 
Referring again to hospital accommodation, the statistics show that about 70 per cent of people insure for private or intermediate ward accommodation. One does not have to be a genius to work out the effect this will have on the waiting lists for operations. This effect has been clearly demonstrated in England and in Canada where over-utilisation of the scheme has meant that in relation to special types of surgery- in particular, non-urgent types of surgery- there is a waiting period of sometimes up to several years. During the last few months we have heard much about the shortcomings of the Labor Party 's proposals, and tonight we have heard quite a bit more about them. I think it is a pity that the Government has chosen to introduce these important Bills into the Parliament at such a late stage in the parliamentary session. They have been introduced virtually in the dying days of this parliamentary session. A Bill of the magnitude of the Health Insurance Bill deserves to be discussed for several days in order to give the members of the Parliament, including honourable senators, a full opportunity to express their points of view. But over the last few months the debate on this legislation has been conducted in the public area. As a result of this public discussion the Minister has changed ground considerably and has varied some aspects of the scheme. In spite of this, it is still unacceptable to the Liberal Party. 
I do not intend to say anthing further about the proposed Labor scheme at the present time. I will do my best to conclude my remarks as quickly as I can. However, I want to refer to some of the areas in which the existing scheme should be improved in the light of present day needs. 
The Liberal Party has devoted the whole year to reviewing its health policy as well as its policy in all other areas. We have come to some conclusions as to the amendments that are necessary to the existing national health scheme. I want to repeat some of the things that  Senator Rae  has already said for the benefit of the Senate and the people who might be listening in and who are anxious to know some of the improvements which we contemplate. I suggest that the people of Australia would agree with the Liberal Party in saying that the scheme is basically a good one. We wish to consider only those alterations which would result in significant improvements in the quality of health care or its coverage or its cost, or which would simplify the administration of the scheme. We wish to see maximum insurance coverage for basic health care. We desire the survival of independent health insurance funds for all areas of insurance, including paramedical services, so as to allow people a free choice of health insurance funds. 
We want to see appropriate deterrents to the abuse of the health scheme, either by patients or medical practitioners, provided that the deterrent does not make the health scheme unduly complicated and that people needing health care are not unreasonably deterred from seeking it. We want to see the pensioner medical scheme and the subsidised health benefits scheme integrated into the present national health scheme so that the benefits of the scheme accrue to pensioners and other people in low income sections of the community. We want to see a tribunal determine medical fees annually and that on this tribunal the government, the consumers and the medical profession should be represented, with an independent chairman. We have referred to many other areas. In the field of nursing homes, we want to see a co-ordinated decentralised delivery system of domiciliary care and day hospitals in order to keep people who do not want to be there out of nursing homes. 
-A11 the members of the Liberal Party Health Committee have contributed to the preparation of this document. I happen to be a member of that Committee. I wanted to mention those points.  Senator Rae  elaborated on them in greater detail, and I do not want to detain the Senate with needless repetition. 
However, I want to refer in particular to the provision of insurance for other professions working in the field of health care. The Senate will forgive me if I mention for a few moments the profession of optometry. Nobody can deny that optometrists make an extremely valuable contribution to the community. It interested me to read only a week or so ago that the fall of the Danish Government was attributed to the fact that one of the members of the Parliament lost his spectacles, went home to pick them up, and his car ran out of petrol. As a result the Parliament was deadlocked 86 votes to 86 votes and this forced a general election. I am sure that honourable senators appreciate what it means to break a pair of spectacles and to do without them. Perhaps even  Senator O'Byrne  might be considered to be legally blind if he lost his glasses. It is a fact of life in Australia that many people depend on spectacles to improve their eyesight. Otherwise, they are considered to be legally blind. I think that patients of optometrists should be able to attract some sort of benefit from the Government and from a health fund on the same basis that a benefit is attracted in regard to the medical profession. 
Whether this ought to be an open-ended arrangement seems to me to be the subject of argument. But I am convinced that this profession has been neglected for too long. The previous Government recognised the capacity of the profession to refer patients to opthalmologists for specialist attention and, in fact, allowed these patients to attract a specialist benefit from the health funds. I believe that this was clearly a recognition of the competence of the profession to deal with visual treatment in the field of health care. Irrespective of the fate of the Bills before the Senate- and it is quite clear what will happen to them- I suggest that the present Government could act to overcome discrimination that appears to occur at the moment with respect to certain funds. I refer to the discrimination against the patients of optometrists in favour of the patients of opthalmologists. Under the present Act, a benefit is not payable for a refractive examination or an optometric examination at which spectacles are prescribed. There are one or two loopholes whereby an opthalmologist can enable his patient to attract a benefit. He can do this under the guise of a medical examination. 
Physiotherapists also have a strong case for the inclusion in the health program as they provide primary health care. Such treatment is most important, of course, in the rehabilitation of injuries caused by accidents in industry and in assisting elderly people who suffer from cerebral thrombosis and other illnesses. I believe that the inclusion of this profession in the health program needs to be looked at favourably. I understand that although at the Scullin Health Centre, which I have visited, private doctors and one private dentist practise it has been manned by salaried physiotherapists. I am of the opinion that the concept of fee for service medical centres is something that we will have to look at. It is something that the Liberal Party supports, particularly in under-doctored areas. 
I support the action where services are provided in medical centres on a fee for service basis in under-doctored areas. 
I am happy to concede that in that area the Labor Government has achieved something. I suggest that fee for service private physiotherapists, private optometrists and private members of the other professions working in the field of health care ought to be included in that sort of complex. I am opposed to the principle of salaried health centres. I could say a lot more about dentistry, chiropody and other professions. I am of the opinion that if any government wants to provide total health care for the members of the community, it cannot avoid including other professions that are working in this field. I am glad to say that the Liberal Party has recognised this principle in the broad acceptance of paramedical services in the insurance plan. I look forward to further progress in that area. We are studying the economics of all these things. I have no doubt that when we finally draft our health proposals, together with other proposals, we will be able to deal very well with the challenge that has been repeated by the Government on many occasions. I support the suggestion made by  Mr Snedden,  the Leader of the Liberal Party in the other House, who said that we would welcome a double dissolution and an election fought on this issue. I support the amendment moved by  Senator Rae. 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the construction of a standardised railway line from Tarcoola in South Australia to Alice Springs in the Northern Territory which was approved by the former LiberalCountry Party Government. Can the Minister say whether the survey of that line has been completed? Does the Government intend to proceed with the project? When will construction commence? 
-Is it a fact that the AttorneyGeneral has flown in the face of the Commonwealth Film Censorship Board recommendation and has approved the showing of a film entitled 'Language of Love'? Is it also a fact that  Mr Chipp,  the former Minister for Customs and Excise, banned the film on the advice of the Board? Is the Minister also aware of the fact that  Mr Chipp,  who viewed the film himself, has described it as pornography from start to finish and that it is being promoted in an aura of respectability by the makers as a sex education film? Has the Attorney-General viewed this film himself? Can he inform the Senate why he ignored the Board 's advice? 
I want to mention very briefly this matter of internal hearing aids being too expensive for those people who are required to wear them. I want to ask the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  whether he has had any discussions with private practitioners on this matter and whether there is any possibility of providing some help to those pensioners in this category who wish to consult private practitioners with respect to hearing aids. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Commissioner for Commonwealth Railways in a press statement attributed to him disclose: 
Government plans for construction of luxury suburban rail cars costing $ I m; and 
that a national study team is designing the new rail cars which will be coming off the assembly Une in 4 to 5 years; if so, does the Commissioner's statement preempt a Government decision to amalgamate the Commonwealth Railways and railways in rural areas? 
Will Commonwealth Railways also absorb urban railways? 
Who authorised the establishment of the national study team? 
What are the names of the members of the national study team? 
How many rail cars have been ordered and what is their anticipated cost? 
Where will the rail cars be built? 
Will the Minister have tabled in the Senate a full and detailed report on these matters before the end of this Session? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government received a report on the proposed amalgamation of Commonwealth and State rural railways as foreshadowed by the Government earlier in 1 973. 
Has a decision been reached by the Commonwealth and South Australian Governments concerning the construction of a standard gauge rail link from Adelaide to Port Pirie, if so, when is the work likely to commence. 
I present the following petition from 84 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectively showeth: 
That, as the World resources of fossil fuels and fissionable material have a limited life and will present growing environmental problems. 
We taxpayers of Australia request that the Australian Government provide increased finance to accelerate the research and development of Solar Energy in Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 289 citizens of the Commonwealth. 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Australian citizens place great value on their freedom to choose their own doctor in all aspects of medical care. 
That we believe in a doctor's freedom to provide a personal service based on personal responsibility within a system based on quality rather than quantity, as opposed to an impersonal service in which doctor and patient lose their identity. 
That proposals to change the existing health scheme are unacceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security inform the Senate concerning measures taken by the Department of Social Security to ensure that applicants for unemployment benefit receive only one such payment at a time? Does the Department insist on the production of a birth certificate by people lodging an application for this payment? If not, will the Minister make such a recommendation to his colleague in another place in an effort to discourage people from applying for a payment at more than one Government office and so eliminate the possibility of people receiving more than one handout from the Australian taxpayers? 
We on this side of the House are concerned about the rights of the States. We are determined that the States should be protected against the centralist policies of this socialist Government. That is why we are concerned about this Bill. I am convinced that it is designed to place more and more authority in the hands of the centralist Government. Evidence of this intent to erode the influence of the Senate has been made apparent today for we have heard of the appointment of a senator as ambassador to Ireland. This must give people in Australia some reason for great concern, that this Government should use that sort of activity to try to erode the influence of the Senate against the blatant attempts by this socialist Government to destroy the States' rights in this House. 
I have had a great deal of interest in mineral development in South Australia. In fact, my interest in petroleum and gas development in that State goes back to a time before I entered this Parliament. I recall when I was a member of the City Council of Port Augusta, as was the late Lin Riches, MP, the Labor member for Stuart, that he and I were greatly concerned about the development of a petro-chemical industry in the area that we represented. It was rather ironical that I was elected to the House of Representatives and still remained a member of the same council, as did Lin Riches, and that we combined our efforts to attract this industry to the Port Augusta-Redcliffs area. Therefore I have a personal interest in this Bill as it affects the progress of an industry in South Australia. I believe that my late friend Lin Riches would share my view and concern about what has happened in that respect. 1 was appalled during the last State elections in South Australia when the Premier,  Mr Don  Dunstan, announced that a petrochemical works would be established at Port Augusta at a cost of about $350m. That announcement was made before feasibility studies on that project were completed. In fact, according to my information from people expert in this field, when that announcement was made they still had not completed their feasibility studies. They had very much doubt about whether the volume of methane gas was sufficient to justify the establishment of the petro-chemical works in that part of Australia. In my view, this illustrates the dishonesty of the Labor Party in its appeal to the electorate. I think that today we have seen further evidence of its dishonesty or its attempts to deceive the people of Australia. 
If the honourable senator wants to start talking about defence in the debate on this Bill, I would be happy to argue about it. But I think I would incur the displeasure of the Chair and knowing the determination of the Chair to preserve order in the Senate I would not dare to enter into that debate. I suggest that this Bill represents an attempt to place in the hands of central government complete control over petroleum and mineral development in Australia. I want to revert to what I was saying before I was interrupted and to refer to the dishonesty of the State Premier of South Australia when he announced the establishment of a petro-chemical works at Redcliff during the course of an election campaign a year or so ago. I would also like to refer to what  Senator Young  has said about the intrusion of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  from the Federal area into this sphere of the development of South Australian industry. He chose to intrude and suggest that a company which had completed its feasibility studies or had almost done so and which had the technical know-how and the finance to proceed with the project did not have enough Australian equity to meet with his requirements. 
What has happened? As a result of this intrusion, the project has ground to a halt. I believe that this is a direct result of the intrusion of  Mr Connor.  That is why I, by way of interjection, suggested that  Mr Connor  ought to be called upon to resign his portfolio. Not only has he created uncertainty with respect to that project in South Australia, but also he has created uncertainty throughout the whole sphere of mineral and petroleum development in Australia. I think that this has earned the undying condemnation of the people of Australia. 
I have been personally in a position in which I have had to deal with geologists and others who have come into my office and asked where they were going to do their work, lt might encourage the Government that we have in office at the moment to know that many of these people are escaping from the socialist domination in Australia. Because they have no work to do, they are going overseas. They are trying to find an outlet for their expert knowledge in finding out where minerals are located. They are now trying to do that overseas. I might say that the Minister for Minerals and Energy is driving Australian technologists, geologists, and mining engineers out of this country because of the disincentive that has been created by this present socialist Labor Government. Honourable senators can understand how I am concerned about this. The intrusion of the centralist government from Canberra into this area of activity, as is portrayed by the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill gives me, as a State 's representative and my State of South Australia and no doubt the Labor Premier of South Australia, some reason for concern. 
The honourable senator has really let himself in for it now.  Mr John  Gorton, the Prime Minister of a Liberal-Country Party Government of Australia had . a considerable impact on the petroleum industry in Australia. He had the foresight to impose certain regulations associated with drilling for petroleum in Australia and managed to keep the price of petrol at its present level. I believe that  Senator Mulvihill,  my friend the environmentalist and the kangaroo expert, would agree with what I say. 
I am just pointing out that the Liberal Party and the Country Party had a purpose with respect to the development of minerals and petroleum exploration in Australia. I believe that this Government has destroyed the incentive not only of industries in Australia in this area that we are discussing but also the incentive of the working people in Australia. I do not want to wander out of the area of this Bill in my remarks. But I could mention many other areas, including housing, where the Government has imposed tremendous burdens upon the working man of Australia. I oppose this Bill purely and simply on the grounds that it represents another attempt to erode the influence of the States and to weaken the federal system that has brought Australia to the point of prosperity that we enjoy or we did enjoy up until 16 months ago. I am quite certain-- 
That was no slip of the tongue. Sixteen months ago this country was enjoying an era of prosperity that was the envy of every other country in the world. Since then, of course, inflation has increased from about 5 per cent to about 14.5 per cent today. If we allow honourable senators opposite to remain in government much longer, I would think that within a month or two it will reach the incredible level of 20 per cent. This is not hurting the people interested in mining petroleum in Australia. Inflation is not hurting the big industrialists in Australia. But it is hurting very much the working man of Australia. I make this point: The parties on the Opposition side of the Senate are more interested in the welfare of the working man of Australia than the socialists who are sitting on the Government benches today. I reject the Bill. 
I  present the following petition from 28 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That Australian citizens place great value on their freedom to choose their own doctor in all aspects of medical care. 
That we believe in a doctor's freedom to provide a personal service based on personal responsibility within a system based on quality rather than quantity, as opposed to an impersonal service in which doctor and patient lose their identity. 
That proposals to change the existing health scheme are unacceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration: Is it a fact that during a visit to Italy  Mr Grassby,  the Minister for Immigration, invited  Mr Francesco  Catanzarati, an Opposition member of the Italian Parliament, to visit Australia? Is it also a fact that that member of Parliament is a member of the Communist Party and the shadow Minister for Labour? Can the Minister say whether  Mr Catanzarati  has spent some time in Griffith, in  Mr Grassby  's electorate, and is travelling by car to South Australia today? If this gentleman is visiting Australia, can the Minister tell the Senate the purpose of his visit, what areas he will visit and whether any of his expenses are being paid by the Australian Government? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware that the Stuart Highway is again impassable due to heavy rains in the northern part of South Australia, and the Northern 
Territory? As the Stuart Highway, according to the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads report, meets the national objectives of the Government and as such is classified as a national highway, can the Minister say whether the Government intends to proceed with the construction of this road which can be described only as the worst horror stretch in Australia? 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973 I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Tennant Creek Hospital, Northern Territory. 
I would like to support the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers,  in what he said about  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield.  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield has earned in South Australia the reputation of being a very hard working senator, particularly in the health and welfare field. I think it would be remiss of me if I did not pay a tribute to her 1 8 years of faithful service to South Australia and to Australia in this Senate. I am very proud to associate myself with my Leader in his remarks in her favour. I extend my best wishes to Labor Party senators who will not be coming back here and join their Leader in wishing them the best as well. 
-I present the following petition from 72 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectively showeth: 
That, as the World resources of fossil fuels and fissionable material have a limited life and will present growing environmental problems. 
We taxpayers of Australia request that the Australian Government provide increased finance to accelerate the research and development of Solar Energy in Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry a question along similar lines to those which were asked previously by  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Drake-Brockman.  I refer to a statement made today by the managing director of Philips Industries Ltd. Has the Minister noted this statement which suggests that the company is considering the retrenchment of employees at its manufacturing plant at Hendon, South Australia? Has he noted the suggestion that some 200 employees will be retrenched very shortly and that by the end of next year it is quite likely that this factory will have to be closed? I want to know what the Government is doing about this specific area of difficulty because it is of great significance to South Australia. I believe that if this factory does close it could well herald the end of the electronics industry in Australia. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and refer to the invitation extended by  Mr Hartley,  a member of the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party, to the Palestine Liberation Organisation to set up an office in Australia. Is the Minister aware that many Australian citizens believe that this could form a base for terrorist activities in Australia? Does the  invitation meet  with the Labor Government's approval? Is it the policy of the Australian Government to allow trade unionists, who are not elected representatives of the people, to intrude into such sensitive diplomatic areas? If not, what action does the Government propose to take to prevent the trade union movement taking over the foreign affairs of Australia? 

 - Mr Deputy President, I offer my congratulations to you upon your election to the high office of  Chairman  of Committees. I offer my congratulations to our  President  on his election to that very high office. I can assure you,  Sir, that  my good wishes go to you for a successful term of office. I pay a tribute to honourable senators who made their maiden speeches yesterday or today. I believe that there has been quite a remarkable contribution to the debate from both sides of the Senate. I believe that apart from one or two provocative speeches we could say that the speeches were received in the traditional way in which speeches are always received in this place. 
Eighteen months ago the people of Australia opted for a change of government. The socialist Australian Labor Party Government set about its so-called progressive legislative program. I understand that this program was supposed to benefit the average Australian citizen. I wonder what the average Australian citizen thinks about the progressive legislation of the Labor Government today because it has done nothing other than impose greater and greater penalties upon the average working man and woman in Australia. During this period food prices have risen by 18.2 per cent, taking an average throughout the States. I think South Australia has achieved a slightly higher rate and has a rate approaching 20 per cent. This increase places a very heavy penalty on the average Australian householder. Apart from that fact, the Government has created a situation in which there is a shortage of building materials and in which people are finding it very difficult to build a home today. For example, in Canberra today it take about 16 months to build a home, whereas before the Labor Party came to government about 6 to 8 weeks would have seen an average home built in Canberra. That is a classic example of the detrimental effect which the so-called progressive socialist Government has had on Australia. 
I am concerned about a number of things in my home State, not the least of which is the climate of industrial unrest in that State. Recently I inspected the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd roll-on roll-off terminal at Port Adelaide. No less than 10,000 tons of steel are at that terminal purely and simply because of a conflict between 2 trade unions about who should be despatching that commodity from that area. I understand from my inquiries that there had been negotiations between BHP and the Waterside Workers Federation before the terminal was completed. They decided that the Waterside Workers Federation was the appropriate body to provide the labour to unload the ships there, to discharge the cargo and to see that it was delivered. Since March of this year the steel has remained in that area, purely and simply because of an argument between the Transport Workers Union and the Waterside Workers Union concerning the delivery of that steel. Of course, that has created tremendous problems in South Australia for not only BHP, which wishes to supply its customers, but also the customers in that State who are trying to fulfil urgent contracts. 
-A Federal award, of course. It is a Federal conflict. I am worried about the Labor Government's inability to overcome these problems. Not only is it incompetent to deal with the trade unions in that area but also it has allowed the trade union movement to take the foreign policy of Australia out of the Government's hands. I will say a word or two about that in a moment. I think it is quite incredible that a situation like the one that I have just described should persist in South Australia and elsewhere in Australia. I am sure that it is not the only example in Australia of such stupidity, which is the only way to describe it. Many workers in South Australia are going to lose their jobs before very long if that sort of stupidity is allowed to persist. 
I have written to the Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, about this matter. I wrote to him early last month but I still have not received an acknowledgment of my letter. I have asked him to see what he can do about arriving at some sort of an arrangement between the 2 unions involved. That sort of thing is affecting productivity in this country. I believe that the strike situation in Australia is one of the major causes of inflation. I suggest that the Government should consider the proposition put forward by the Liberal and Country Parties during the election campaign and look at the leadership of some of these unions. Many of the leaders who cause trouble have migrated to this country, so in many instances we have imported industrial trouble. I suggest that the Government should look at this aspect, introduce the holding of secret ballots for the election of union officials and insist that all trade unionists in Australia vote at such elections. That would get rid of some of the irresponsible trade union leaders who are causing industrial trouble, leading their fellow workers into strike situations unnecessarily and causing them and their families hardship. 
I suggest as a positive move- as a positive example of the policy of the Liberal-Country Party- that the Government should introduce legislation to provide for the holding of secret ballots for elections of union officials. I believe that if that happened the average trade unionist in Australia would vote at such an election and would see that the irresponsible trade union leaders were thrown out of office and replaced by fair dinkum Australian workers who have the interests of their fellow workers at hean. In my view that is a positive suggestion that the Government should adopt. 
Something else that irritates me is a situation in which a trade union- to wit, the Seamens Union of Australia- can hold the country to ransom simply because it disagrees with the policies of a foreign government. We have had the example in South Australia this year of 2 ships from Spain being held up for 8 days and 7 ships from Greece being held up at Port Adelaide for about 5 1 days. I recall that in one instance a ship was carrying cargo that was vitally necessary to the building industry in Australia. It was carrying timber that was vital to the building of homes for workers in Australia. I think that sort of thing is disastrous. I believe that it is quite evident to the people of Australia that the Government is unable to control or negotiate with the trade union movement and that the trade union movement is obviously the Government's master. 
I propose to add a little more to what I have said about the strike situation in Australia. I think that  Senator Greenwood  brought home very strongly this afternoon the point that the cost to the Australian worker of strikes is tremendous. The March quarter of this year saw a loss of no less than 2 million working days, because of irresponsibility in most areas, at a cost to the workers of $45.2m. This amount is more than the cost of such losses for the whole of last year. The Liberal and Country Parties had a record with respect to industrial unrest that the Australian Labor Party should envy. I believe that the State governments have recognised the importance of the policies that were promoted by the Liberal and Country Parties during the election campaign because they have agreed that our proposition with respect to the handing over of some temporary control of wages and incomes is a wise one. I believe that the Premier of South Australia would agree with my statement that our propositions during the election campaign were the right ones. 
I notice that  Mr Dunstan  has, quite correctly, hit out at the Labor Party tariffproposals, which have caused tremendous problems in South 
Australia over the last few months. Yesterday I asked a question about the factory of Philips Industries Ltd at Hendon. Probably it would be one of the main electronics industry factories in Australia. This factory has been placed in serious jeopardy because of the indiscriminate tariff policies implemented by the Labor Government. Tariffs certainly have to be reviewed. But I believe that it was quite irresponsible to make across the board tariff cuts. Certainly some tariffs should have been cut further but other industries should have been provided with additional assistance. The indiscriminate cutting of tariffs has created tremendous unemployment problems in South Australia particularly. South Australia relies very largely on the motor industry and to a lesser degree on the electronics industry, which in that State employs about 1,850 people. 
On looking back to the election campaign I note with a lot of interest and cynicism the promises made at that time by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam).  For example, he came to South Australia on two or three occasions and on each occasion he dangled another carrot in front of the people of South Australia. He said: 'We will provide $80m for the filtration of Adelaide's water supply. We will build a dual sealed highway from Port Augusta to Alice Springs'. That is something that I would like to see happen. The Prime Minister said: 'We will build a railway line'. I am glad to say that that may have some chance of success. He also said: 'We will sign a contract with respect to the Dartmouth Dam that will ensure a water supply for South Australia' That is much needed for the development of our State. Yet last year- not very long ago- the Prime Minister was going to adopt the proposal put forward by the Coombs Task Force that the Dartmouth dam project be deferred or delayed. It will be recalled that at that time all Liberal Party senators from South Australia mounted an attack on the Government during an adjournment debate in the Senate. I am afraid that this took the present Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  completely by surprise because he did not know that the Prime Minister had written to the Premier of South Australia suggesting that the construction of the Dartmouth dam ought to be deferred. But during the election campaign the Prime Minister said: 'We will see that a contract is signed so that the State of South Australia will be provided with that dam'. From my recollection I think he said that if the Liberal Party got into power- I think at that time he thought that it would- it would not be able to back down on this proposal. I can assure the Senate that we on this side would support anything that would provide South Australia with the water that is so urgently needed for its future development. 
Another matter which arose during the election campaign and which greatly amused me illustrates the significance of the Press reporting things during an election campaign in a slightly more responsible way. I recall reading in the Adelaide 'News' about a week before the election a report that the Federal Government would provide $2,000m for the construction of a water treatment plant at Port Pirie in South Australia. However, a further reading of the article revealed that the proposal was that the State and Federal governments would set up a committee to conduct a feasibility study on the possibility of providing a $2,000m water treatment plant at Port Pirie. But while the Labor Party was doing this sort of thing, the Liberal Party and the Country Parties were proposing that the growth of the Public Service ought to be restricted. We said that if we were elected to office we would restrict the growth of the Public Service to 3 per cent. According to the Governor-General's Speech I notice that the Labour Government has adopted our suggestion minus .4 per cent and will restrict the growth of the Public Service to 2.6 per cent. We suggested that expenditure in the public sector ought to be restricted. For example, we said that as a government we would not permit public money to be spent on projects such as the Gidgealpa pipeline which will commit the taxpayers of Australia to something like $500m. We believe that sort of project is best kept in the field of private enterprise. 
-My fine feathered friend from Murray Bridge interjects. Apparently he considers that it is a sin to make a profit. This project is another mistake by this Government. It illustrates the motivating force behind the mentality of this Government. This Government wants to destroy the incentive of everybody in the community to make a profit. We on this side of the Senate believe that everybody, the workers, from the factory floor upwards ought to be provided with incentives. But honourable senators opposite do not like to provide incentives for the workers. 
If the honourable senator were working on a certain line alongside  Senator 
Georges he would probably not be capable of working as hard as he because of the sort of internal problem in respect to his income compared with the honourable senator's income. I believe that we ought to encourage the worker to work as hard and as much as he can, and we should pay him for it. We believe that business people ought to be provided with incentives to encourage them to produce more. We believe that business people and industrialists ought to be encouraged to expand their businesses. We should give them incentives to do this so that there will be more jobs for people who would be encouraged to earn more money in the proper way. 
I will not take up the time of the Senate for very much longer except to say that I have attempted to make to this Labor Government one or two suggestions on where it is going wrong. I think productivity is very important to this nation. We are lagging behind other countries. 
-One thing that I will say-I do not suppose I should be completely destructive in my criticism of the Labor Party- is that I do support the concept of retraining. I think this is a good thing because it is something that we as a party believe in. It is something in regard to which we might be able to get together and help this Government promote this sort of philosophy. I think this is a good idea. 

 -As Senator DrakeBrockman reminds me, it depends on what they are being retrained for. That is very important because we must make sure that the retrained workers will enter new fields which best suit them and in which they will contribute most. 
Thank you for reminding me about that. I believe that the proposed optometric benefit is a good one. It is one that my Party has been considering. Although I am speaking of my own profession and although I believe that this benefit to the patients of optometrists is long overdue, I think we would approach this much more responsibly and have a look at what the cost will be to the community. We would hope that not only optometry patients but also other sections in the field of health care would benefit. We want to include all professions in a health scheme, but I believe that we have to approach these things in the light of the economic state of the nation. However, I compliment the Government and support the proposal which has been put forward. 
I disagree with what  Senator Hall  said about the amendment to the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. Obviously  Senator Hall  believes that the Government is able to handle the economic problems that confront Australia. He believes that the Labor Party is not creating unemployment. He believes that it is not creating an intolerable rate of inflation in Australia. He believes that the people of Australia are not being distressed because of the actions of this Government. I disagree with him. 
That could be an appropriate description. I support the amendment to the motion. I suggest that I have given to the Senate some indication of the policies that we as a government would put forward to combat the problems facing this Government. My leader in another place,  Mr Snedden,  has indicated that he is prepared to co-operate with the Government in any measures that are taken to combat inflation provided they do not involve the socialisation of industry in this country. I support the amendment to the motion and, together with members on this side of the Senate, will continually strive to promote our policies so that at the next election we will throw you people opposite off the Treasury bench and give the people of Australia responsible government. 
In directing a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer, I refer to recent severe increases in water rates in South Australia. I want to know whether the Minister's attention has been drawn to the fact that in many cases the increase over the last 12 months is approaching 100 per cent and in many other cases has exceeded 100 per cent in that short period. As it seems inevitable that council rates and other rates will be increased and in view of the fact that a large number of people will be paying in excess of the $300 allowable as a taxation deduction, will the Government increase the allowable deduction in the forthcoming Budget? 
-I present the following petition from 275 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in- Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we are concerned at the wastage of taxpayers money in providing unemployment relief to able bodied persons who refuse to accept work which is offering. 
Whereas we agree that where possible people should be provided with job opportunities in vocations for which they have been trained, it is our opinion that in such cases where there are no job vacancies and where other work is available, the Federal Government should not approve the payment of unemployment benefits. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I think that this is the third time that the Senate has discussed this Bill and the third time that I have had something to say about it. I recognise that the Australian Labor Party won the last election, that it has some right to introduce legislation into this place and that we should give it due and proper consideration. 1 remind the Government that on several occasions it has put before the people referenda proposals which sought to change the Constitution. Some of them have been electoral matters. They have been rejected quite convincingly by the electorate at large. Therefore, as a responsible member of the Senate, I believe that anything which will endanger this chamber in which we sit constitutionally and anything which will weaken the influence of the States- this place is a States House- ought to be rejected by any responsible member of this chamber. 
Honourable senators opposite refer to the need for Senate representation of the Northern Territory and the Austraiian Capital Territory.  Senator Gietzelt  indicated that there seemed to be a great clamour throughout the Northern Territory for this representation.  Senator McLaren  never ceases to draw our attention to the activities of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  in advocating that the Northern Territory have Senate representation. I think that  Senator McLaren's  constant reminders probably emanate from a fit of pique by Labor Party members because we on this side of the Senate have the right to disagree with the collective thinking of our Party, not like members of the Labor Party who are always bound hand and foot by Caucus decisions. 

 - Senator McLaren always rises to the bait, and I am very glad of that fact. In South Australia State Australian Labor Party members have not been able to put the views expressed by their electors because they have been bound by Caucus decisions. That is not so with respect to our Party. 
We reject this Bill purely and simply because it would weaken this place as a States House. It seems quite incredible to me that the Government should put these proposals without consulting the States. It surely would be incumbent on any responsible government to seek the advice and the opinion of the Attorneys-General and the Solicitors-General of the States and to work out whether this Bill is acceptable constitutionally. I think  Senator Greenwood  highlighted this point very clearly yesterday, and that is the reason for moving the amendment. I believe that the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory are being looked after very well. A special Minister of State deals with each of those areas, and a department is devoted entirely to the interests of each of those areas. lt seems to me to be quite reasonable to accept  Senator Maunsell's  argument that when the Northern Territory gets to the stage at which it can be considered to be a State of Australia we should be prepared to look at the position then and not give it 2 senators, which would be the effect of this Bill, but give it 10 senators to which it would be entitled when full statehood is granted. I just cannot see that there is any argument at all to be put forward to change my mind about this measure. I think that the Labor Party can be likened unto white ants, because with this Bill they seem to be nibbling away at the very core of the Constitution that set up the Senate as a State's House. I think it is valid to raise constitutional matters in this debate. Even a person such as myself without any great legal knowledge can see immediately that this measure could be challenged by the States if it was ever enacted. 
Another point that needs to be raised concerns the catchcry one vote one value that is always howled at us by Government supporters. Let us consider the present ratio of members of the House of Representatives and the Senate to the electoral population. It will be noted that one member would represent 42,189 voters. On that average, the Australian Capital Territory with 101,757 voters would be entitled to 2.4 representatives, and not four. The Northern Territory would be entitled to one representative, not three. This seems to make rather a mockery of the catchcry of Government supporters and others about one vote one value. There is no doubt that effective representation of the States would be seriously weakened by half-baked Territory senators holding disproportionate sway in this House on voting matters. The people in the States convincingly rejected the Government's referendum proposal for election of senators at the same time as members of the House of Representatives. Clearly this element of the Bill is unacceptable to the people of Australia. There is no way in which the granting of representation to other than the recognised States would improve our system of government. In fact, it would inevitably lead to claims by other territories. This has been ridiculed by honourable senators opposite. 
It is quite fair to suggest that the people of Norfolk Island, Christmas Island and other territories could be justified in asking for Senate representation and I would be very surprised if it did not happen. It is quite conceivable that Territory senators with only a 3-year term could hold the balance of power over the sovereign States, thereby thwarting the concept of the Senate as the proper House of review envisaged by the architects of our Constitution. This chamber would be seriously undermined as the protector of States rights. Last evening  Senator Cavanagh  interjected to state the belief of Government supporters that the Government would win the Senate vacancies created. This seemed to me to be quite significant. In my view this would certainly militate against the interests of the Senate and the States and would work towards the clearly stated policy of the Labor Party to abolish the Senate. 
-It is still in your policy and I notice that you are fairly sensitive about it. I support the amendment that has been proposed by  Senator Greenwood  that all these matters should be referred to a select committee for a report. I believe that this is a far better answer to the dilemma in which we find ourselves. It would give the States an opportunity to consider this matter. 
In addressing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence I refer to the statement appearing in today's 'Australian Financial Review' indicating that Woomera is headed for mothballs. Is there any truth in the statement that seems to indicate that the Government intends to close down that facility? As the Minister is aware, there is a population of about 5,000 in that South Australian town. If the Goverment intends to close down Woomera, what plans are in hand to rehabilitate many of the people there who are specially qualified? In view of the problems associated with South Australia in recent times because of the loss or danger of loss of various industries will the Minister do all he can to preserve employment for these people in South Australia? 
I join with other Opposition speakers in opposing the measures that are before the Senate this evening. I should like to commend  Senator Hall  for his approach to the Bills that we are considering. I am glad to know that he has shown some sympathy with the Liberals on this side of the chamber by opposing this measure. I think that this will give some encouragement to the people who sent him here and who charged him with the responsibility of opposing the Labor Party's socialist measures and of protecting the interests of the Australian States. I welcome this support and hopefully look to a continuation of this stance. 

 Senator Hall referred to the double dissolution, as he has done on many occasions. I suggest that the calling of the double dissolution is the reason why he is able to be in this place to put his point of view. I could not quite follow the consistency of what he said when he criticised the Liberal and Country Parties' proposals for improving the existing health scheme. He said that he did not agree that people should be able to opt out of the scheme. I find that inconsistent with what is stated on page 6 of his policy speech. It reads: 
Our concept of medical and health services is that they should remain a free choice for patients. 
A little further on it states: 
We do not agree with the LCL that an individual should be able to opt out of the system. 
I would have thought that the principle of freedom of choice should apply right through. But I thank  Senator Hall  for his support on this occasion and I hope that he will be able to put forward some suggestions that will help us in a constructive way to meet any objections that he may have to the existing scheme. I certainly would welcome any suggestions that he could put forward and would help to influence my Party into agreeing with them. 
I oppose this measure which obviously is the fore-runner of a compulsory 1.35 per cent taxable impost on the people of Australia in order to establish a Government-run health fund in this country. I believe that it will ultimately prove to be a socialised salaried medical program provided at greater cost to many people in the community. I have noted that some honourable senators opposite- I believe they should be in Opposition- have challenged the suggestion that it will be a nationalised scheme. Tonight when  Senator Carrick  was speaking the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  interjected: 'Nationalisation is all right. What is wrong with nationalisation?' After hearing that statement from a Minister of the Government it is clear what we are facing here in Australia. 
Many people will have to pay more for their health care in this country. Under the existing scheme a single person is able to insure himself at a lower rate than will apply to him if these measures are passed. We have to consider the working man and his working wife. We must also consider the young people who, with the supreme optimism of youth, maintain in thenown minds that they cannot get sick. Are we to force them to become insured under the compulsory scheme? We must also consider those people who for religious reasons do not want to be involved in an insurance fund. We must also have regard for the people who prefer to pay out of their own pockets for the medical attention they require. I believe that this Government is retrogressive in its approach to health care in Australia. It is looking at schemes that have been in existence overseas and has formulated some sort of hotchpotch of those schemes in attempting to introduce a similar type of system in Australia. 
Such a scheme has operated in the United Kingdom for a quarter of a century but there the authorities are reviewing the scheme. It seems to me that in the United Kingdom there is a tendency towards a growth in private insurance organisations and an increasing number of people who are wanting anxiously to insure themselves in a fund through which they may seek private attention and obtain it almost immediately. They do not want to queue up at hospitals for surgical procedures available from the national health service institutions. I have here an interesting supplement to the London 'Times' dealing with health care in the United Kingdom, published only a few months ago. I do not wish to hold up the Senate but I would like to read one or two extracts from the supplement that seem to indicate that the health scheme in the United Kingdom has not been what Minister Bevan thought it ought to be when it was created that long ago. 
-Geoffrey Smith. 
He is an eminent writer on the staff of the London 'Times'. He wrote: 
The birth of the National Health Service more than a quarter of a century ago was a painful process. It is easy to look back now and to assume that as Minister of Health Aneurin Bevan was able to establish the pattern that he wanted. That was far from the case. 
Various special interests had to be placated. The new regional hospital boards and hospital management committees took both the voluntary and local authority hospitals under their wing, but not the teaching hospitals. 
Local authorities were so upset at losing control over their hospitals that it was essential to leave them with the community health services. General practitioners were so fearful of losing their independence that they would not be directly employed by the NHS at all, but would become only independent contractors under executive councils, with a membership equally divided between the medical professions and laymen. 
The result was that the three branches of the service came under separate administration. That was not merely offensive to the bureaucratic mind: It was contrary to the best interests of the patient. For most of the time he would be under the care of his GP, but when he went to hospital for treatment or diagnosis there would be less continuity of care than there should be or generally had been. 
Relations between hospital doctor and GP were more distant; nor was contact sufficiently close with the community health services or the welfare services under local authority control. The total needs of the patient tended to be lost in the gaps. 
It was not so long before this began to cause concern. 
Of course, the same applies to hospitals. I commend the whole of the supplement to honourable senators for their education. Is also contains the following reference to hospitals in an article written by John Roper- the John Roper, another eminent journalist on the staff of the London Times'. He wrote: 
When the National Health Service began in 1948 there were 3,040 voluntary and municipal hospitals, of which 2,688 were taken over. A few hospitals closed but about 250, many belonging to religious orders, remained outside the service. 
Today there are 2,250 NHS hospitals. There is not a central register of independent hospitals but there are probably about 200. 
Right through the article runs the theme that health care provided in the national health service hospitals is certainly second rate compared with that supplied by the very few private hospitals that are in existence in England at present. That opinion is supported by  Dr Stanley  BalfourLynn who, I think, is director of the Harley Street Clinic. In the supplement he is quoted as making these points: 
The efficient running of hospitals necessitates good management. In the NHS there is enormous waste and the private field could teach the public service a lot. What apart from privacy and the great benefit of treatment on the day he wants it does the private patient get? 
The article states that under the NHS in the U.K. a patient is denied immediate treatment for surgical procedures, and so on. The articles get down to the mundane question of selection of food in hospitals. In the public institutions patients are denied a choice of meals, a matter which is very important to patients. It seems quite obvious to me that there is a growing demand iri the United Kingdom for private insurance protection in order that people may attend the doctor of their choice and can be sure that they will have that doctor available for surgical treatment or whatever treatment may be indicated. In the same supplement  Dr Tony  Smith has written that no doubt in an ideal world doctors should insist that everyone is treated in big modern hospitals staffed around the clock by resident doctors, nurses, technicians. He went on to write: 
No doubt in an ideal world this would be the case; and it is certainly true that where there is a modern NHS hospital with a full complement of staff and no waiting list there is little demand for private practice. Unfortunately these ideal conditions are rare. Most hospitals have long waiting lists for non-urgent surgery; many are still using old depressing Victorian buildings and have serious staff shortages. 
In fact, in the United Kingdom taking 10,000 people as a basis there are 12 doctors, 32 nurses and 41 beds available for that number. In the United States for the same number of people there are 16 doctors, 51 nurses and 47 beds. Against that background private practice can offer some real medical advantages. The patient who pays his fees knows he will be able to obtain the services of the consultant of his choice. Should he be in need of an operation or specialist treatment, the treatment will be given by his own doctor and not by the surgeon who happens to be rostered for duty under the national health service scheme. 
After 25 years of experience in the United Kingdom it can be seen that a change is taking place. The demand by patients for private treatment seems to be becoming more frequent. 
-I believe what I read in that newspaper because it substantiates the views that have been put to me by doctors who have come to Australia to escape this public service environment and it has also been put in letters which I have received over the years from hundreds of patients who believe that the system in Australia is far from preferable to the one that they experienced for many years in the United Kingdom. I believe that in recent times there has been an upsurge in the discontent amongst the doctors in the United Kingdom and a tendency for more and more doctors in that country to want to go overseas to practice. That seems to bear out the opinion I have just expressed. 
I turn to the situation in Australia and I draw the attention of honourable senators to recent Press articles on the running costs of free medical health centres in the Australian Capital Territory which, I believe, is the socialist laboratory of Australia. I understand that this socialist laboratory which exists in this area is to be extended to 
South Australia with the co-operation of the Labor Government in that State. I have my ear to the ground. I believe that this concept of salaried doctors in medical centres is likely to spread to South Australia in the very near future. I remind honourable senators of an article which appeared in the 'Australian' of 29 May headed Free health "more costly". 126 p.c. above private care- study shows'. The article is a report on a study undertaken by a Canberra accountant,  Mr East.  The article states: 
The cost of treating patients in the Federal Government's free health centres could be up to 126 per cent higher than treatment by private general practitioners. 
His findings were presented to the post graduate committee in medicine of the Australian National University. He compared the costs and incomes of IS Canberra doctors selected at random with the cost of maintaining doctors at the free health centres in the capital. 

 Mr East found that at a conservative estimate the cost of treatment to patients going to free health centres was at least 62 per cent more expensive than treating them privately. 
The report states that  Mr East  indicated that administration, rental and staff salary costs for each doctor employed by the Government at free health centres meant an additional $5,000 a doctor over and above the costs of a doctor in private practice.  Mr East  also suggested that whereas the average general practitioner treated 40 patients a day, according to the health centre estimates salaried doctors there treated 28 patients a day.  Mr East  is reported to have said that on that basis it is at least 62 per cent more expensive to treat patients in health centres than in private practice. He said that on average, according to Australiawide surveys, doctors treat only 20 patients a day and at this rate the cost rises to about 126 per cent higher than the cost in private practice. I think it is interesting to note that within the last 24 hours or so a doctor has resigned from the Melba Health Centre. He has been very critical of the conditions of public practice in that area. He says that when he took up his salaried position at Melba he did not think people would abuse a free medical service. He is reported to have said: 
To start off with they did not but I am quite certain that towards the end of my time there this was the tendency. 
He thought that more people with trivial complaints went to the centre than would normally be the case with a fee for service doctor. He comes down solidly in support of the concept of fee for service medical treatment in the community centre environment. 
He has been practising in the Australian Capital Territory in a public service environment at Melba. 
In the newspaper article he goes on to say where he will be practising. The honourable senator can read this if he wishes. That doctor is going back into practice on a fee for service basis at Kippax health centre. My colleague  Senator Baume  has very adequately described the way in which the people of Australia have demonstrated their opposition to the proposal which has been put forward by the Government because the polls have indicated that 54 per cent of the population are opposed to the scheme. I believe that is a conservative estimate. I believe that the many petitions that have been presented in this Senate and in the House of Representatives, signed by hundreds of thousands of people, adequately reflect the public antipathy towards the socialist measures which are being put to the people of Australia by the democratic socialists who sit opposite. 
I am opposed to the measures which are put forward by the Government. However, I do recognise, as  Senator Melzer  said in her speech, that there are in Australia areas which are not being properly catered for medically. The honourable senator chose to mention Melbourne suburban areas and I believe that is fairly significant, but I think it is more significant to refer to the remote areas of Australia. In its aim to improve the existing scheme the Liberal Party recognises the need to pay more attention to general practice and the area of primary health care. We have outlined in detail the proposals that we would put to overcome this problem. I have had experience in my own profession when I worked with the Royal Flying Doctor Service in providing a service in remote areas such as Oodnadatta, Coober Pedy and Andamooka which are fairly remote areas in South Australia. I recognise that more should be done to provide medical care in those types of areas and perhaps more significantly the Eyre Peninsula area which occupies a fairly vast part of South Australia and to which it is difficult to attract medical practitioners. Another such area is Kimba. 
I believe it is the responsibility of the Government and the Australian Medical Association to ensure that these remote areas are serviced. I suggest that we have to pay more attention to encourage general practice to be taught at the universities and in the teaching hospitals. I believe this is essential in the quest to service these areas adequately. In my opinion this is the responsibility jointly of government and the university authorities, the teaching authorities, the Australian Medical Association or the appropriate medical authority. Doctors ought to be given some incentive to go out into these areas for two or three years before they are able to go into some specialty. I personally believe that general medical practice is a specialty in itself and I also believe that specialists would be far more effective if they had some basic knowledge of family medicine. This is an area in which the Liberal Party certainly has recognised the problem and about which, by its policy, it would do something. I have not seen any constructive suggestion coming from the Labor Party as to how this sort of problem will be overcome. 
As far as the problem in the suburban areas of Melbourne is concerned, I believe that this is the sort of situation in which the principle of a community health centre could be applied. I think that this is a similar sort of case to that existing in Elizabeth in South Australia, an area of the State which is under-doctored. I think that firstly we should be looking towards the establishment of a fee-for-service community health centre staffed by doctors and supported by adequate back-up facilities in the paramedical areas. I believe that the Bills before the Senate are not in the best interests of Australia. Therefore, I oppose them. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration say what progress is being made in solving the dispute between the Transport Workers Union and the Waterside Workers Federation which has held up delivery of 10,000 tons of steel from the roll-on roll-off terminal of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at Port Adelaide since March of this year? I understand that the Waterside Workers Federation is prepared to go to the disputes committee of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, but the TWU will not agree to that course of action. As many contracts are being seriously delayed because of this dispute, what is the Government doing to effect an early settlement? 
I wish to speak for a few minutes on the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill 1974. 1 think it is appropriate to discuss this Bill because I believe that under the Australian Labor Party Government Australia is becoming a submerged land. The essence of the Bill is to take away from the States controls which they have had for a large number of years. I believe that it is a retrograde step for the nation. 
I am not reading my speech. I notice that Government senators do it quite frequently. They make great play about overseas investment in Australia. I do not think that we need be ashamed of what overseas capital has done for Australia over the years leading up to the advent of the Labor Government in Canberra because if it had not been for overseas investment Australia would not have been able to progress to such a degree. Therefore, I reject any suggestion that we ought to disregard entirely the value of overseas capital to the development of this country. 
The Liberal and Country Parties believe that Australian equity in the development of Australian resources ought to be encouraged. It has always been the aim and the policy of the Liberal and Country Parties that 51 per cent of any investment in Australia's mineral resources ought to be in the hands of Australians but we realise that it is necessary to provide some flexibility in our policy. We do not encourage the idea of the present Government which would like to bring into the development of Australia the resources of the Australian Government. I think that the policy which we promoted during out term of government is the correct one, that is, to encourage Australian equity but not to force the Australian people to provide finance or to insist upon a particular amount being provided for mineral development. 
I am rather concerned about this Bill because I am concerned about the future of Australia's development. I have had complaints from many people in the mining industry that because of the policies of this Government they have been forced to seek employment overseas. Since this Government has been in power there has been an exodus from Australia of geologists and mining engineers. This is a luxury which Australia cannot afford. I have heard comments about the development of mining interests in South Australia, and Redcliffs has been mentioned in this place during the last day or so. I believe that the Redcliffs project is a classic example of development being discouraged because of the policies promoted by this Government. We believe that Australia must take some interest in the development of our resources. I am very concerned about what is happening to the Redcliffs project. About 12 months ago a company was interested in developing a petro-chemical industry in South Australia. This company had the technical capacity to do the work. It had the financial resources to proceed. But this Government decided that because of insufficient Australian equity in the company it should discourage the project. As a result, there is now a delay in that development. The delay is simple because the consortium concerned with the project at present has not the technical capacity to proceed with it. Because of that fact, other Australian companies which were interested in the project have not been prepared to come forward with the Australian equity which this Government has suggested ought to be involved in that area in order to allow the company to proceed. 
I believe that the Bill is a continuation of this discouragement of development in the mining industry of Australia and therefore I oppose it. It seems to me to be directing more and more control towards the central government, which is certainly the purpose of the Labor Government. I suggest that we ought to re-assess our attitude to foreign investment in Australia. We ought to adopt some sort of policy which is designed to encourage Australian interests to develop our resources. The way to do that is to apply a taxation incentive which will encourage Australian people to invest in Australian companies. If we apply some sort of disincentive to foreign interests in this area there may be some purpose in the policies of the nation. I oppose the Bill and encourage the Government to provide some incentive by which Australians will invest in Australian development. 
I should like to speak for a moment or two on the motion to suspend Standing Orders so that we can discuss the motion of which  Senator Wright  has given notice. I suggest that in the matter that is before the Senate, the members of the Press Gallery seem to have a privilege that is greater than that enjoyed by members of the Parliament, because for several weeks now I have been reading about what will happen regarding our salaries. It seems to me that members of the Press have had some information about this subject given to them. I get quite angry when I read in the Press from time to time about what action I might take regarding this matter. I read this in this morning's Press that I and my colleagues would accept this increase. 
Week after week the headlines in the Australian Press have blasted this question of salaries. They seem to have stirred up quite an amount of interest among the Australian public. This morning I received several telephone calls in which I have been asked for some details of the report that was presented to the Senate last night. I have not had a chance to read through it in great depth. I believe that this document needs to be carefully scrutinised. I do not think it matters two hoots whether we make a judgment on this matter now or whether we defer its consideration until next Tuesday because after all, as  Senator Baume  has mentioned, the salary increases would not have effect until 1 August. 
Of course, the motion to suspend Standing Orders has presented honourable senators with an opportunity to express a point of view in relation to the various matters that will be raised when the report of the Remuneration Tribunal is discussed. I believe that  Senator Sir Kenneth 
Anderson and  Senator Cotton  have quite properly drawn attention to the fact that the report does not concern only the matter of parliamentary salaries but it goes wider and covers members of the judiciary and members of the Public Service. For this reason I want to be given a chance to have a look at this report so that I will be in a position to inform the people in South Australia, whom I represent and who are interested in this matter, as to the details of the report. I think it is important that members of the public should be given a few days in which they can view the report we have before us. For that reason I oppose the idea of suspending Standing Orders at this stage. I suggest to honourable senators that if we are responsible at all we ought to take this document home and study it very carefully over the weekend so that we can explain it in detail to those people who are interested. Then we can come back here prepared to debate the matter on Tuesday in a much more intelligent fashion. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation able to say whether the Australian Environmental Council has laid down any guidelines with respect to environmental studies associated with projects such as the Redcliffs petrochemical works in South Australia? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement made by  Dr John  Coulter, the Vice-President of the Conservation Council of South Australia, which described the South Australian Government's document planned for the environmental study of the Redcliffs project as 'pathetic'? In view of the national importance of protecting Australian waters against industrial pollution, will the Federal Government seek the cooperation of the South Australian Government to comply with the request of the Conservation Council of South Australia that a 3-month public review period be allowed to consider an environmental impact study associated with the Redcliffs project? 
We are discussing the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill which seeks to increase charges to the extent whereby the Post Office will enjoy a profit of something like $60m a year. I think it might be fitting at this stage to go along memory lane down which  Senator Durack  escorted us some time ago and quote from the debate on the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill 1967 on 12 May 1 967, when  Senator Murphy  said: 
The measure is a means of indirect taxation. It is equivalent to increasing personal income tax by about 5 per cent. It is done under the guise that the Post Office is making heavy losses and that it is necessary to raise the postal charges, telephone charges and other charges in order that these losses be overcome. 
He went on to say: 
This is an extraordinary dealing with moneys. It is a juggling with the books. It means that the Government is, in effect, paying interest to itself on moneys which in the first place have been taken from the people. 
I mention that because  Senator Hall  says that he does not agree that it is a tax gathering measure. I just wanted to point out that by that statement  Senator Murphy  would disagree with him. It was interesting also to listen to  Senator McAuliffe.  He made an extraordinary speech that I could not follow, and I am certain many people on this side of the House who are very much stronger in economics than I am found it equally difficult to follow. The honourable senator suggested that this measure was in fact designed to correct 23 years of incorrect policy. I would remind  Senator McAuliffe  that during the debate in May 1967  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, speaking for the government of the day, pointed out: 
As a result, the postal service was able, despite rising wage rates and other inescapable increases in costs, to maintain a breakeven financial position over the 5-year period from 1 959-60 to 1963-64. However, losses of $2.6m . . . 
The honourable senator went on to explainhonourable senators can look at that part of the debate for themselves; I will not bore them by reading it all- that this would result in a loss of something like $40m to $45m in 1 970-7 1 . At that time the Government took action to correct that trend, and the Opposition, at that time, voted against it. But at the moment we on this side of the House are not voting against this measure at all; we are proposing a breathing space of a few weeks in which the Government can consider this measure in the context of the Budget, hoping it will find a way by which these increases can be minimised. I suggest that the cause of the increased charges in the Post Office is largely a result of the irresponsible way the country has been run by the Labor Government over the last 18 months or so. With full knowledge that the inflationary trend was such that caution ought to be exercised, this Government chose to give public servants 4 weeks annual leave which in the case of the Post Office- I think  Senator McAuliffe  suggested there are 120,000 employees in the Post Office; I think there are more than thatmeans a loss of an extra 4,800,000 working hours a year with a consequent increase in costs to the Department. Apart from that, the Government, again in the light of the questionable economic state of this country, chose to bring in measures granting 12 weeks maternity leave and a period of paternity leave for public servants. These things, in my view, are contributing directly to the position in which the Post Office now finds itself. 

 Senator Hall or someone else on this side of the House drew attention to the fact that the Post Office has not been without some industrial problems and this Government, of course, has a very bad record of controlling industrial unrest in this country. This has slowed down the machinery within the Post Office to a degree where it must have cost the country millions of dollars as well as lowering the efficiency of the Department. I think it would be a good thing to read a little more from the debate that occurred in this place in May 1967 and to quote again from what  Senator Murphy  said. He said: 
The Government proposes to deal with its financial problems in the worst possible way, that is, by putting the burden on those who can least afford it. I refer to the ordinary citizens, lt is objectionable that at the same time the rates to the great commercial users should be reduced. 

 Senator Murphy put the point of view that the burden was placed on the people who could least afford it- the ordinary citizens. Since this Government purports to represent the ordinary citizen, I believe that this measure which we are now discussing is a disgrace.  Senator Drury  quoted from the Vernon report. I believe that in that report, it was advocated that a 15 per cent annual increase should apply to postal charges. If one cares to compound the result, this of course would more than double in 5 years, which means that in 5 years time we would pay 18c to post a letter and that at the turn of the century we could expect to pay no less than $1 to post an identical letter. So in my view these measures that we are considering will aggravate inflation in Australia. They will impose heavier burdens on businesses and industrial concerns; they will create problems, for primary industry; they will cause hardship for pensioners, local government, and State governments which will be forced to have a look at their own budgets in the light of increased charges for the services which they are able to provide for the people of Australia. 
Everything in this Bill points to aggravating inflation and placing heavier burdens upon the people of Australia. For that reason I support the amendment moved by  Senator Durack.  It will allow the Government further time to consider these proposals in the context of the Budget which will be presented in a few weeks time. I suggest that it may give honourable senators on the Government side a chance to think about the various policies which have been propounded by different Ministers in relation to the economic management of this country. I suggest that they ought to have a good talk to  Mr Gordon  Bryant, the Minister for the Capital Territory, who, among other things, has suggested that there should be a reduction of Government charges, including post office charges. I am sure that sentiment would be shared by people like  Senator Primmer, Senator McLaren  and others who come from country areas in Australia and who recognise that this is a retrograde step. Something ought to be done to review the charges at which we are looking in the general context of the Budget to see whether we can rationalise the thinking and lower the charges to some extent. 
-The Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration will recall that I raised the question last week concerning the 10,000 tonnes of steel that is rusting on the wharf at Port Adelaide due to an argument between the Transport Workers Union and the Waterside Workers' Federation. As it would seem that the Federal Government, the South Australian State Government and the Australian Council of Trade Unions are unable to effect a speedy solution to this problem, will the Minister authorise the Army to effect delivery of this urgently required steel to contractors because I understand that unless this material is delivered very soon unemployment will be the result? 

 -Mr President, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-73 I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Tennant Creek Hospital, Northern Territory. 
-I present the following petition from 24 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
The undersigned citizens of Australia of Baltic origin wish to express their concern at the announced intention of the Australian Government to recognize the annexation of the three Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania by the Soviet Union. We submit that these once free and independent Slates were occupied by force of arms and beg the Senate to disallow such recognition as a matter of principle. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As a petition similarly worded has already been presented by  Senator Davidson  I do not propose that the petition be read. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that yesterday,  Mr Smirnov,  a counsellor from the Soviet Embassy in Canberra, requested the Government, through the  Deputy  Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs, to provide a plane to fly  Mr Ermolenko  out of the country? Does the Minister know whether this is the  Mr Smirnov  referred to in John Barron's recent book on the KGB as a former KGB agent? 
I support the amendment moved by  Senator Durack.  I also support what  Senator Hall  has said about the state of South Australian roads under a South Australian Labor Government. I find it quite incredible that a former State Liberal Premier would even hesitate about this amendment which seeks to protect a State government from the authority of a Federal, socialist Minister. I find it quite extraordinary that his excuse for contemplating such support for the retention of this clause in the Bill is that a 
Federal Labor Minister may be preferable to a State Labor government. As far as I am concerned that sort of excuse is untenable. I urge  Senator Hall  to reconsider and support our amendment. 
I present the following petition from 48 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whilst the Australian Government is granting freedom and independence to Papua and New Guinea, the once free Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are occupied by the Soviet Union and their citizens are continuously and brutally deprived of personal, civil and religious freedoms. We humbly beg to draw the attention of the Senate to this fact and ask that the matter be raised in the United Nations by the Australian Government. The annexation and incorporation of the Baltic States by the Soviet Union has not been recognized by any Western democracy, including Australia. We beg the Senate to continue such nonrecognition and to disallow any steps by Australian Government which would amount to recognition of aggression. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As petitions similarly worded have already been presented by Senators Laucke and Young, I do not propose to move that this petition be read. 
I want to support largely what  Senator Devitt  said about his concern for local government. As far as I am concerned, this Bill blatantly discriminates against the States of Australia and also against local government. I would have thought that the Government would have paid some regard to the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads report which made some assessment of the road needs in Australia. But of course the Government has ignored this report almost entirely. The Bureau of Roads is an expert body that recommended that the warranted and feasible expenditure on roads in Australia to bring them up to any reasonable standard was approximately $4,200m over the next 3 years. In spite of this warranted and feasible suggestion the Bureau recognised other areas of expenditure for the Government and reduced this recommendation to $3, 422m, of which it suggested that the Commonwealth should pay $ 1,345 m and the States should pay $2,077m. So the Commonwealth Government is not the Father Christmas that we have been led to believe it is. 
In order to meet the recommendations of the Bureau of Roads report the States are now required to find, in addition to the money provided by the Government in the road grants Bills before the House, an additional $2 19m. In the legislation there is a massive reduction in the grants to rural areas. For example, in my State of South Australia for rural arterial roads the Bureau recommended that a total of $ 16.7m be expended but the Bill provides for only $4.7m- $12m less than the recommendation.  Senator Wright  put his finger on it earlier in the debate when he said that the Government had paid no regard to inflation. That is perfectly correct. The Bureau of Roads did pay some regard to this subject. At page 283 of its report in clause 13.46 it says: 
After consideration of the factors underlying the current inflation, recent and prospective Government antiinflationary action, and scope for productivity improvements noted above, we have made an allowance of 6 per cent per annum for future cost rises - 
But the poor Bureau of Roads forgot that there was a different government at that stage. When the Liberal-Country Party Government was in power it managed to keep the inflationary trend down to about 4 per cent. In spite of that the Bureau of Roads chose to believe the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when he said that he would take anti-inflationary measures. Therefore the Bureau went along with this and allowed an inflationary factor of 6 per cent in its assessment of the road needs for Australia. I criticise the Bureau of Roads in this instance because, over the last four or five years, road construction costs in Australia have risen by not less than 10 per cent per annum. This is a measure of the irresponsibility of the Commonwealth Government in introducing Bills that will reduce the funds available to the States and to local government for expenditure on roads. 
In support of what  Senator Devitt  said earlier, concerning the disadvantage to local government, I notice that the Acting Premier of New South Wales at the time,  Sir Charles  Cutler, indicated in a Press statement on 29 June that New South Wales shire councils were confused and concerned about the plans to cut funds for rural roads. He said that 2,000 shire council workers would lose their jobs. He described the whole scheme relating to grants measures as a lunatic one. The  President  of the Monaro Shire,  Mr V.  L. Lyons, said: 
We are worried at this stage. We will just have to play it along and see what happens. There will certainly be a reduction in staff if our funds for rural roads are cut by 25 to 30 per cent. 
This, I suggest to the Government is where it has gone wrong. 
In suggesting the allocation of this reduced amount of money for roads the Commonwealth Government will force the States to increase their road taxes. Already  Mr Hamer,  the Premier of Victoria, has said that he will increase registration fees by 50 per cent. As a result of the lack of funds, in rural areas in particular, unemployment will occur.  Sir Robert  Askin said only this week that he envisages in the Department of Main Roads in New South Wales there could be a retrenchment of 1,600 people. These are the matters which concern me particularly, apart from the fact that the Bill provides for not one Minister, but three, to intrude into roads programs in Australia. This is the essence of the Opposition 's concern with respect to these measures. That is why I intend to support the amendments proposed by the Opposition with respect to the intrusion of the Federal Government into the provinces of the States and local government with respect to road programs. 
I support the amendment and suggest that it is bad enough having one Federal Labor 
Minister to deal with without complicating it by allowing others to get into the act as well. The South Australian Minister,  Mr Virgo,  is not impressed even with  Mr Jones.  Yesterday I learned that  Mr Jones  sent a letter to local government authorities in South Australia indicating that there was some interim finance available. 
Amendment negatived. 
I present the following petition from 64 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the right of self-determination belongs to every nation, big or small, the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have been deprived of it for 30 years by the Soviet Union. All Australian Governments for 30 years have refused to recognize the Soviet sovereignty over the Baltic States, but now understand that such recognition has been granted. We the undersigned petitioners wish to express our concern and dismay and humbly ask that it be retracted. 
And your petitioners, as in duty, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that during the general election campaign, among other election promises, the Government undertook to provide finance to the South Australian Government for the purpose of filtering the Adelaide water supply at a cost, I believe, of something like $80m? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that there have been several deaths caused by acanthamoeba, which does result in meningitis, in the northern Spencer Gulf area and that it is a water borne virus? In view of the little extra cost involved and in the interest of public health, will the Minister ask the Treasurer for extra money so that the water in that area can be filtered? 
I present the following petition from 88 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whilst the Australian Government is granting freedom and independence to Papua and New Guinea, the once free Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are occupied by the Soviet Union and their citizens are continuously and brutally deprived of personal, civil and religious freedoms. We humbly beg to draw the attention of the Senate to this fact and ask that the matter be raised in the United Nations by the Australian Government. The annexation and incorporation of the Baltic States by the Soviet Union has not been recognized by any Western democracy, including Australia. We beg the Senate to continue such nonrecognition and to disallow any steps by Australian Government which would amount to recognition of aggression. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As petitions similarly worded have already been presented by  Senator Baume  and other honourable senators I do not propose to move that this petition be read. 
I present the following petition from 206 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament asembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectifully showeth: 
That Australian citizens place great value on their freedom to choose their own doctor in all aspects of medical care. 
That we believe in a doctor's freedom to provide a personal service based on personal responsibility within a system based on quality rather than quantity, as opposed to an impersonal service in which doctor and patient lose their identity. 
That proposals to change the existing health scheme are unacceptable to the people of Australia 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Postmaster-General. A number of inquiries have been coming to me since the confirmation last Tuesday night that the Government will abolish broadcast and television licence fees. These inquiries have come from people who paid their licence fees in the days leading up to that announcement. Can the Postmaster-General say whether his Department intends refunding these fees? If so, what course of action should people take to ensure that they can claim these reimbursements? 
I rise to support  Senator Withers  in this debate. I suggest that we are discussing the proposition that the Australian Labor Party ought to be given 5 representatives at the Constitutional Convention and the Liberal-Country Party Opposition ought to be given four, therby giving the Labor party the traditional majority which a government usually has on committees of this type. It seems to me that the whole argument hinges on whether a senator who has attracted 0.94 per cent of the vote ought to be recognised and given a position on the delegation to this Convention. I put to the Senate that that is an unfair proposition. I was distressed when the Government intruded into this debate an attack on  Senator Townley  of Tasmania.  Senator Everett  was very critical of him and suggested that he has been flying under false colours. Not long after  Senator Everett  spoke,  Senator Gietzelt,  another member of the Labor Party, said that  Senator Townley  has consistently suported the view of the Opposition. I believe that the 2 points of view expressd by the Government side have been inconsistent. 
I believe that the Liberal Movement has already a representative at the Constitutional Convention. For  Senator Hall  to insist that he be given this role on the federal delegation seems to me to demonstrate a lack of confidence in his colleague from South Australia. Therefore, I support the view already promoted by Sentor Withers that it is quite fair to suggest that the Government with a 48 per cent poll result and the Liberal and Country Party Opposition with a 48 per cent result should attract the same representation from this place; and that the Government should be allowed to have the traditional majority of one from the House of Representatives. I support the attitude of the Opposition in this respect. 
Question put. 
That the motion  (Senator Murphy's)  be agreed to. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to a statement made by the Minister for Health and reported in today's Press which advises people not to eat more than about half a kilogram of flake due to the presence of mercury which has been detected recently in some fish filets. What is the major cause of mercury pollution in Australian waters? Where is the major source of mercury pollution in Australian waters? Where is the greatest concentration? What is the Federal Government doing to ensure that appropriate measures are taken to prevent such pollution? As the States have a significant responsibility in this matter will the Minister ask his colleague to arrange a meeting of all State Ministers for Health so that a combined attack can be made on water pollution in Australia and also so that some uniform regulations can be drawn up concerning the safe level of mercury in food? 
I enter this debate because  Senator Button  spoke earlier and mentioned the factsenator Poyser- You came in late. 
I am very interested in the by-play but I believe that I have a right to rise in this chamber and to speak on a matter particularly when the question of a dispute at Port Adelaide was introduced into the Senate by a Government speaker. 
-I informed my Whip at the appropriate time that I wished to speak for 5 minutes on this issue. I think it is very important that honourable senators show an interest in the industrial disruption that is occurring in Australia under the present Labor Government. I am very interested in the dispute at Port Adelaide that was mentioned by  Senator Button.  I fail to see that amalgamation of the Transport Workers Union and the Waterside Workers Federation would overcome this problem because in the trade union movement there is a personality problem amongst the hierarchy. In my view, that is the area where the main problem arises. 
I would like to refer to the incident at Port Adelaide which involved a dispute between the 2 unions that I have mentioned. I believe that the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd, which was the employer involved on this occasion, was perfectly correct in consulting with the Waterside Workers Federation to determine which particular union should supply the labour for that operation. After consultations were held with the Waterside Workers Federation well before the completion of the roll-on roll-off terminal the waterside workers assured BHP that they were the appropriate labour force to deal with the unloading of the cargo at that area. It appears to me to be quite strange because Port Adelaide was the only area in Australia where the TWU chose to have an argument on this question. I recall that on the occasion when I and the honourable member for Wakefield,  Mr Kelly,  inspected the terminal at Port Adelaide we were assured by the workers and the management that the WWF was the appropriate source of labour upon which to draw. I believe in that situation amalgamation would not have been the answer to the problem. 
Another thing annoyed me when I was in Adelaide at about that time. A TWU meeting was held at the St Clair Youth Centre. Subsequently I spoke to a TWU member who is a friend of mine and who was very much disturbed by the fact that when he went into the centre to attend his union meeting he was not asked whether he was a financial member of the union. He was not asked to produce his card or to identify himself with that union. He was opposed to the argument that was presented to him. I too was concerned at the manner in which the proposition was put to the meeting. He told me that when the members were asked to vote on the proposition the matter was decided on the voices. In his view the voices were almost equal. As there was an argument on the voting procedure at that union meeting they decided to divide as we do in this House- to walk to one side or the other- but there was no deliberate attempt to determine the actual numbers. They said, 'Oh yes, the ayes have it', and that was it. In my view, there are many areas of concern in the minds of the public of Australia about the way in which these meetings are conducted. I think that the Liberal Party is quite right in suggesting that secret ballots ought to be held for the election of union officials. 
We are asking for proper secret ballots. 
I agree that there is provision for compulsory secret ballots, provided that a union member is prepared to get up on the floor of a meeting and request it. But how many union members are prepared to do that? We on this side of the House believe that proper secret ballots ought to be arranged. 
-Exactly. That is what I was trying to point out- that the average trade unionist is frightened to get up and request it at his union meeting. Therefore, Opposition policy is that proper secret ballots ought to be arranged. Another thing that I believe we ought to be looking at is the total role of the trade union movement in Australia. In my judgment the unions of Australia are taking government out of the hands of this Parliament. That has been evident in South Australia on more than one occasion. I am particularly concerned about the fact that the Seamens Union, for example, can determine which vessels it should unload. Greek and Spanish ships have been coming into Port Adelaide, and because the union does not agree with the internal policies of the governments of the countries from which those ships emanate, it has determined that its members will not unload the vessels. This seems to me to be a typical example of domination from left-wing unionists at the top of these unions. I believe it is high time that the trade union movement in Australia woke up to this problem. I believe that our policy with respect to union disputes is quite proper and I shall therefore support the Opposition in opposing this Bill. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Minister aware that the Treasurer has read 2 telegrams to the House of Representatives this afternoon? Can the Minister say whether the telegrams indicated that rumours of Australia devaluing its currency have been circulating in Britain for some months; also that rumours of an imminent devaluation caused a flurry of selling on the foreign exchange market today? Is it also a fact that the telegrams stated that the rumours spread rapidly through financial circles following a Melbourne newspaper report that the Government had decided on a 12 per cent devaluation? Is he also aware that this telegram stated that one Australian bank said that trading was normal until late this afternoon, when there was a sudden burst of selling activity? In view of the international implications of the leak described in a previous question put to the House by  Senator Marriott,  can the Minister indicate whether he will support a full inquiry into the source of the leak that caused this premature Press report? 
-I ask the Minister for the Media a question relating to a question asked yesterday about the provision of television services to Leigh Creek. I recall that the Minister said that officers of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board would be visiting Adelaide shortly and would be discussing this question with interested parties. I would like to know, firstly, whether the Minister can identify the interested parties. The Minister may be aware that I have been to Leigh Creek with an officer of the Broadcasting Control Board and I recognise the point he raised about the economic and technical difficulties with respect to a micro-wave connection to that area. I believe that the Minister mentioned the alternative proposal that a low power television service be installed in that area. What is the Government's policy with respect to the provision of such installations? As Leigh Creek is essentially an Electricity Trust town and as such is of particular interest to the South Australian Government, and in view of plans to expand the coal mining activities in the area, prolonging the life of the town for a long period, will the Minister negotiate with the State Government with the object of discussing the possibility of jointly financing a low power installation to serve this town? Finally, in the event of the provision of satellite television for Australia, is it a fact that low powered television installations such as this can be utilised and, because of this, money expended in that direction would not be wasted? 
-I would like to support what  Senator Durack, Senator Lawrie  and  Senator Townley  have said about the outrageous increase in charges that this Government intends to inflict upon the people of Australia. At the outset I reject totally the suggestion that has been put forward and promoted by the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  that the Senate is to blame for these increases in charges. He continued his attack on the Opposition, trying to show that it is frustrating the Government. I have become tired of that phrase, particularly as out of a total of 343 Bills that have been introduced by this Government the Opposition has rejected only thirty-four. To accuse the Opposition of increasing these charges is quite irresponsible and unacceptable. On the one hand the Postmaster-General blames the Opposition for forcing the Government to increase the cost of a postage stamp to 10c and on the other hand he flamboyantly abolishes broadcasting and television licences, thereby reducing the revenue of the Department by about $7 1 m in a full year. 
I would not be surprised by what Caucus would be considering. I am quite certain that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  would be bound to take notice of whatever it suggests. I cannot understand the rationale of this incredible charge against my Party. Certainly the PostmasterGeneral's Department requires additional finance to keep up with wage pressures and the running costs caused by the inflation that is rife under this Government. However, the Opposition believes that there are areas of inefficiency within the Postal Department where economies ought to be effected. It is to that area that we, as a government, would be looking to avoid the necessity of excessively high increases in postal charges. 
The Postal Department is the largest department in the Commonwealth, employing about 35 per cent to 40 per cent of the Commonwealth's civilian public servants or over 1 14,000 people. Recognising the need for a restructuring of the Postmaster-General's Department, the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1971 streamlined its administration with the object of establishing 32 fully equipped business management headquarters throughout Australia under the control of area managers. This involved the amalgamation of the lesser administrative units into larger area offices. The organisational reforms effected under the Liberal-Country Party Government provided an appropriate balance between centralisation and decentralisation, and between forward planning and shortterm achievements. These sentiments were expressed at that time by the Director-General of the Postal Department,  Sir John  Knott. 
The results of this initiative taken by the Liberal Party Government were revealed over the ensuing 2 years because the combined earnings of the postal and telecommunications sections improved from a $2m deficit in 1970-71 to a profit of $36m in 1971-72. Because the postal section of the Post Office is labour intensive it suffers much more than the telecommunications area, which is highly capital intensive, as a result of wage increases. I believe also, because there is a fairly large number of females employed within the Department, it would have suffered substantially as a result of the added costs of the maternity leave that was provided by the Government early in its administration. 
I do not oppose that at all if taken at a sensible time, but taken at a time when the economy is in a sick state and when inflation is increasing I believe that that sort of activity was irresponsible. My Party would recognise that need and would act upon it when the economic circumstances permitted. I heard the other day that in one union's log of claims there is a claim that maternity leave ought to be increased to 52 weeks and that paternity leave ought to be increased to 12 weeks. As  Senator Sims  asks, what is going to happen in the Postal Department if that sort of irresponsibility is allowed to persist. 
We have heard a lot about the Vernon report. It has been subjected to a great deal of criticism by many writers in Australia. I noted earlier today an article by  Mr McGuinness  of the 'Australian Financial Review'. In July he said: 
The report of the Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office is a disappointing document. 
It contains few of the basic issues which any proper examination of the postal and telecommunications services should consider, in particular the basis for pricing capital investment, procurement and subsidy policies. 
There is little in it- except historical and public relations material, and accountants' reports- which was not covered in principle by the Coombs task force report. 
And the Coombs report had the benefit of much less time and input than the Post Office inquiry. 
He went on to say: 
The increase in charges foreshadowed by the Government is not much of an anti-inflationary measure, but it is essential if any kind of brake is to be put on a form of social investment which is heavily capital-consuming and, henceforth, in a capital-scarce environment like ours, inflationary. 
The Vernon report indicated to the Government that postal service expenses would increase by 10 per cent this year based on last year's figures, but now the Government is asking us to accept an 18 per cent increase, and this is in spite of restrictions that have been applied to staff escalation. The Committee recommended that the postal charges should be increased at a rate of 15 per cent per annum. That seems to me to be quite incredible because under this Government I doubt very much that that figure could be adhered to. It seems to me that within a very short number of years we will see a greater escalation in charges. 
That would be an appropriate expression to describe it. The Post Office has estimated that without increasing charges the loss this financial year would be 5 times that of only 2 years ago- being approximately $100m. We know that the Austraiian Post Office finances its operations from 2 sources. Firstly, the Post Office is financed from the cash flowing from its trading activities, including net profit, if there is any, and depreciation; and secondly, it is financed by borrowing from the Treasury at a rate of interest equivalent to the interest rate on longterm Government bonds. The additional revenue that will accrue from the Government's proposals, amounting to about $146m, provides what would appear to be a profit of $60m. However, the Minister conveniently has not mentioned that this revenue is required to supplement capital expenditure because Treasury advances to the Department for capital are pegged at 1973-74 levels. This ignores the eroding effect of inflation which is currently running at about 14.6 per cent and, as anticipated in the Budget, will probably exceed 20 per cent. 
In 1973-74 the estimated expenditure of the Post Office was $385m. This is the same amount of expenditure that is being allowed for this year. If honourable senators do a little simple arithmetic I suggest they will find that the Government ought to be allowing, if it takes inflation into account, for an expenditure of approximately $442. 5m. In other words, the additional revenue that will be attracted from the people of Australia by way of these additional charges merely offsets inflation. I think that in another 12 months we can look forward to another massive deficit in the Post Office. 
My colleagues have already detailed many of the deficiencies and penalties of the measures that are being proposed in these Bills. I have received many complaints from people about the proposed increases in Post Office charges. I would like to read a typical example to honourable senators. It is from the Australian Postal Users Council. The letter was written on 20 September 1974 and states: 
The new postal rates must greatly increase unemployment and inflation and will seriously assist in undermining the confidence of the public, industry and business. 
The suggested increases are vastly in excess of those proposed in the Mini-Budget which you helped to reject in July this year. We ask your support in the rejection of this Bill. In April this year the Vernon Report compiled by the Commission set by the Government was tabled and obviously was to be used as a guide for the reconstruction of the Australian Post Office. This report was completely ignored when the new postal rates were compiled. 
The Vernon Report recommended that there would of necessity be an annual increase of 1 S per cent per annum and that in three years time the basic standard letter rate would be 10c. 
The present proposal to increase the basic standard letter rate from 7c to 10c is disastrous showing as it does an increase of 42.9 per cent. This great increase is suggested not in three years but in five months. 
If we take the basic non-standard letter the increase is even greater from 7c to 1 lc, an increase of 63 per cent. As the rate progresses into the heavier letters and articles of nonstandard size the increase does not follow any regular percentage and would appear to have little logic. An article is an article and the processing of such an article basically requires the same amount of handling. Therefore the charge of 33c for a non-standard article between  100g  and 250g is out of all proportion to the basic rate. It is obvious that some increases in postal rates are justified. No person could argue against that and certainly not members of this Council. But to increase the basic letter rate by 42.9 per cent is to inflict a cost increase on the community which we suggest is far in excess of what is necessary and desirable in today's circumstances. 
The Council supports the idea put forward by  Senator Durack  which seems to me to be a logical and sensible suggestion. I will read the paragraph of the letter in which this matter is mentioned: 
Once again publishers and the printing industry will surfer an unbearable load. During the past few years many magazines have been suspended or have placed their printing overseas. The phasing out of Categories 'A' and 'B' and the forcing into Category 'C or 'Other Articles' of many publications and all new publications again means that publishers of necessity must increase both their cover price and also advertising rates. By Government decree all such increases must be presented to the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
I believe that  Senator Durack  's suggestion that it would not be unreasonable to expect the Postal Department to do the same is a valid and sensible suggestion. I have stated already that the Opposition gave the Government an opportunity to revise its thinking on these charges realising that the Government is reaping an astronomical sum in increased personal income tax. We hoped that the Government would recognise the wisdom of providing some relief to the people of Australia by reducing some of these charges. Obviously, the Government has ignored and passed up the opportunity we gave to it. Therefore, it deserves the condemnation of the people of Australia. 
I rise to say a few words in defence of  Mr McLeay  who cannot defend himself in this chamber. I would suggest that his statement was quite a proper criticism of the development of Monarto. He said that there must be some industrial reason to justify the establishment of any decentralised project. I was very critical of this project when it was first mooted. In a Press statement I suggested that any decentralisation in South Australia should be about 100 miles from Adelaide. I suggested that the northern Spencer Gulf area would be an appropriate area. It has an industrial reason why it ought to be developed. I suggested the area of the river land. It is a fruit growing area. There is an industrial reason why it should be encouraged to expand. I suggested areas further afield. The Port Lincoln area is another area which could be developed profitably in a decentralised way. I also suggested areas in the south-east- Mount Gambier, Millicent and Naracoorte. There is ample reason why those areas ought to be developed. 
I share some of the concern which has been expressed by  Mr McLeay.  I suggest that his criticisms were quite justified. My view is that Monarto will be populated virtually by public servants in the first instance, many of whom would prefer to live in the metropolitan area of Adelaide where they have lived for a considerable number of years. The State Government and the Premier seem to me to be forcing these people out of Adelaide, against their will in most cases. I believe that unless the State Government is very careful there will be a lot of discontented inhabitants at Monarto. Apparently it is a fait accompli as far as the Premier of South Australia and the State Government are concerned. Why do we not experiment with the use of solar energy in that development? I believe that such a pilot study would provide some reason and justification for the establishment of Monarto. 
-Would the honourable senator like me to give a little lecture on solar energy? Establishment of Monarto might be justified if the Government agreed to experiment with solar energy in that area. 
-I am pleased to be able to take part in the Budget debate. In fact, it is the seventh opportunity that I have had to take part in a Budget debate in this Federal Parliament. 
I must say that this particular Budget is the worst that I have ever had to deal with in almost 7 years of experience in Federal politics. We are dealing with the second Budget that has been brought forward by this socialist government following 23 years of Liberal-Country Party administration. The people of Australia recognise just how significant has been the administration of this Labor Government. 
I listened with interest to  Senator Hall's  contribution. It is the first occasion on which he has been able to take part in a Budget debate in this place. I find myself in some agreement with his criticisms. One would have thought that  Senator Hall  must have been looking at some of my notes because he touched on areas of concern which I share with him. I was a little disappointed that he criticised the Liberal Party for not being able to offer any solution to our current problems. I think that was unfortunate, because if we read all the statements that have been made by our economic spokesmen and if we read the policies that we put forward during the May election campaign, we very quickly recognise that we have some alternative proposals. If the Government took notice of those proposals, the economic situation of Australia might be quite different today. 
I am glad to see that at least one suggestion put forward- that in respect of the reduction in personal income tax- was eventually taken notice of by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  However, we believe that he did not take sufficient notice of this and allowed a reduction of only some $430m. Considering that the Government is reaping a reward in excess of $3,000m in personal taxation, one would have thought that even the Labor Government would have recognised that it could afford to grant in excess of the $600m reduction in personal income tax that  Mr Snedden  promised during the election campaign. 
I would like to comment on one or two points that  Senator Hall  raised. He touched on areas of concern that I have in South Australia. 
-Firstly, with  Senator McAuliffe  's permission, I would like to refer to the Redcliffs petrochemical works that it is proposed to construct in South Australia. I think this is one of the greatest political scandals that South Australia has ever seen. During the last State election campaign  Mr Dunstan  made the great announcement that there would be a $300m petro-chemical works established in that area of South Australia. Today, we are still awaiting anxiously for this to happen. In fact, during that time, no doubt due to the pressures that have been placed on the economy and the costs that have been created by the Federal Labor Government, the estimated cost of this project has risen to no less than $600m. I was particularly concerned not only in relation to the establishment of this industry in South Australia but also in relation to the protection of the environment of the northern Spencer Gulf waters. We know that in South Australia the northern Spencer Gulf area is a spawning area for many varieties of fish. There is very prolific mangrove growth in that area. Nobody seems to know what damage will be done to the ecology of that part of South Australia if the petrochemical works are established. This has caused great concern for the fishing industry in that State. 
I have had a little to do with environmental matters, particularly in recent years. As a member of the Joint Committee of Public Works, I can state that the Committee is concerned with environmental studies conducted in relation to any project that it is examining. I am glad to see that the Labor Party has recognised the importance of this matter. Therefore, I took some interest in the environmental studies associated with the petro-chemical works. I should correct that statement because no real effort has been made by the State Government to effect an environmental study in that area. I recall that when I was in the Philippines earlier this year on a tour to examine various matters in that country, I was fortunate enough to have talks with some experts in aquaculture. I raised this question of this petro-chemical industry with the chief aquaculturist at the university or academy that was dealing with this problem. He was conducting experiments in relation to the problem in the Philippines. He was horrified when he learnt that such an industry could be established in that area without proper environmental studies. He urged me to do all I could to influence the State Government in this regard. I thought that the appropriate thing to do would be to consult people that I had met in the United States of America when I visited that country as a member of a delegation in 1971. I was fortunate enough to be able to contact the director of the Southern California Water Project Authority. I think that is the name of the body concerned. By way of correspondence, he was able to put me on to an expert in this field in Puerto Rico. Recently I received some terms of reference that ought to be applied to a proper environmental study of this area of South Australia. I have handed this material to some environmental experts in South Australia who are currently assessing the terms of reference. 1 was glad to see that at last the Government in South Australia has recognised the importance of calling for a public inquiry into this aspect of the petro-chemical development in the northern part of South Australia. I share  Senator Hall's  concern that the time interval allowed for public inquiry into this matter is insufficient. At least 3 months ought to be given for adequate community response to such an inquiry. 
I return to the Budget itself. I was quite amused by the statements made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)-  he is the present Acting Prime Minister- on the television program 'Federal File' last Sunday. He said: We want the people to produce their way out of inflation'. He made statements such as: 'We are not going to allow people to be unemployed. We are going to encourage the economy to grow and to expand rather than enable it to be contracted. We are going to have flexible policies to help productivity, investment and incentives.' These statements were made in the wake of a Budget produced only a few days prior which will have the reverse effect to the statements that he made on the television program. The actual position is far from what the  Deputy  Prime Minister stated. The Government does not want the people in Australia to produce their way out of inflation. Rather it is discouraging this. It is applying disincentives wherever we look. I believe that perhaps this can be summed up fairly appropriately in the words of  Mr Snedden  when he replied to the Budget last week. He said: 
In 2 years Government spending will have risen 59 per cent, total receipts will have risen 65 per cent and income taxes will have risen 95 per cent. Is it any wonder we are in a mess, with such structural strains imposed on the economy. 
He went on to say: 
The private sector has been squeezed and battered, unemployment has been created, the public sector will claim a rich slice of real resources, and the Labor Party hopes that it can take up unemployment by putting people on the public payroll. That is a dream that has already become a nightmare. But its victims are not the Government; its victims have been the people wanting to buy homes. Its victims have been people already thrown out of work and young Australians who will leave school in a few months time to face the biggest job shortage for more than a decade. Its victims are the small businesses which make up the major portion of industrial, manufacturing and commercial strength. Its victims include those people who make up the great rural and mining industries. For all of them, this is a Budget of illusion and delusion. 
That just about sums up what I believe this Budget amounts to. It is a Budget of discouragement. It is a Budget of disaster so far as the people of Australia are concerned. After all, the only people who will profit by the inflationary spiral that has been created by this Labor Government will be big business which the Labor Party is helping, and the Government itself. The people who are suffering most are the workers, the small businessmen and those people in the private sector of the economy who have been deprived of the advantages of a free enterprise government. In fact, the Treasurer pointed out this very clearly in his Budget Speech as reported at page 1276 of Hansard, when he said: 
The relatively subdued conditions in prospect on the private sector provide the first real opportunity we have had to transfer resources to the public sector. 
If this is not a socialistic statement, I will go he for touchy. This Labor Government, as I have said before, is reaping the reward of inflation by collecting more and more surreptitious revenue in the form of taxation from the bread winners of Australia. Certainly the Treasurer took notice of what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has said and has made some tentative approach to reducing personal taxation. This applies only to people who have an income of up to $10,000 a year. 
I should like now to talk a little about the problems associated with industrial unrest. Here, I must support the incredulous remarks of  Senator Hall  when he mentioned the statements reported to have been made by  Senator Button. Senator Button  is able to correct me if he wishes. In the 'Australian' of today,  Senator Button  is reported as saying that industrial unrest is a healthy sign. 
-Then I beg the honourable senator's pardon but he had better make a statement about the matter because he has created some uncertainty in my mind. I thought that butter, or polyunsaturated oil would not melt in  Senator Button's  mouth because I thought he was a person who had some compassion for and interest in the people and the workers of Australia. I was rather disappointed when I read that particular report in the 'Australian' this morning which stated that  Senator Button  had said that he thought industrial unrest was a healthy sign.  Senator Button  was reported as advocating that the unions ought to elect the directors of companies and ought to behave as the people do in Yugoslavia. 
I am concerned very much at the fact that the workers of Australia this year have had a record number of strikes under the Government which one would have thought would be able to control this sort of situation. As a result of strikes in the whole of last year workers lost $45.2m in wages. For the first 5 months of this year this sum has been exceeded quite substantially. Strikes this year have cost the workers no less than $75m in lost wages due to the particularly disgraceful state of affairs that is existing under the present Labor Government. 
Here I return to what  Dr Cairns  blithely said on the television program 'Federal File'. He said that this Government would not tolerate unemployment. But the figures in the last report of the Department of Labor and Immigration led us quite clearly to realise that the unemployment situation is increasing and has, in fact, increased by 13,555 in August to 107,140. It seems to me that while we have this Government in control of the affairs of this nation, that sort of situation will become worse. I am concerned that in South Australia, only last Friday, 150 people in top jobs at Chrysler Australia Limited were given an ultimatum- they were told they would have to work on the production line or leave the company. 
The Chrysler people are very concerned at the procrastination of the Government in establishing some guidelines for this very important industry. I hope that the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  will take note of this and recognise its grave significance for South Australia, in particular. This particular industry must receive clear guidelines from the Government as to what direction it will take in the future. I heard on the grapevine that the Chrysler company is considering reducing production by a very substantial amount. This causes me concern. I am sure that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  who is from South Australia must share my concern. I hope that he will take some action to prevent what I believe will be a disastrous situation in the motor car industry which is so important to South Australia. The Government must take a lead in this particular area. Of course, other industries have suffered largely because of the irresponsible action of the Labor Government in reducing tariffs across the board by 25 per cent. I do not know much about economics- let us face it. I do know a little about other matters - 
-Yes, I believe I do. Even my simple economic mind recognises that one cannot cut tariffs by 25 per cent across the board. Some areas might need to be reduced by more than that and others might need to be increased in order to help the industries get over their particular problems. I believe that is where the trouble in South Australia started. We find in South Australia Philips Industries, for example, which is an electronics industry. It employs a collection of expert people who are, I believe, desperately needed to remain in South Australia. Their jobs have been jeopardised because of the actions of this Government. If we are not careful we will find those experts drifting overseas. They can produce their products more cheaply in Singapore. They can go to South America or Mexico to establish businesses and still provide themselves with opportunities to invest their capital. 
I believe that we have got to take a look at this matter. I think that the electronics industry in South Australia is about to crumble if we are not very careful. So, that is another challenge that I throw out to the Government: Do something about the electronics industry in this country. The textile industry, of course, is perhaps not quite so significant in South Australia but nevertheless South Australia is faced with retrenchments in the industry. I heard recently a spokesman for the textile industry say that very shortly 15,000 people will be out of work and before long- within a few months- it is quite likely that this number could rise to 40,000. 
This Budget has raised several matters that are of particular interest to me. I should like to refer now to the expenditure that has been allocated for the establishment of a Pipeline Authority. An amount of $75m has been provided for advances to the Pipeline Authority for expenditure on the Moomba-Sydney natural gas pipeline and spur pipelines. This, of course, is an area where the Liberal Party and the Country Party do not believe it is in the public interest to spend public money. We believe that it is more proper to allow expenditure in this area to be undertaken by private industry. But that is just by the way. I want to ask the Government- here again I find myself in some agreement with  Senator Hall-  whether in the course of constructing these pipelines it is possible to see that the jointing is sufficiently secure for the future transportation of hydrogen. In my view in the long term solar energy will be the saviour of this country and could well be the saving grace of the whole world. I can envisage Australia becoming the solar energy centre of the world's supply. 
-Export it, yes. What an incredible statement we have had, and how accurate it is, from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. He obviously does not recognise how important the statement is. 
I know a little more about physics than perhaps  Senator Cavanagh  does. I have support for my belief because I have had a lot of discussions with one of the heads of the experimental establishment at Flinders University, 
Professor John Bockris. He has told me that it is quite feasible- and it could eventuate- for Australia to transport solar energy overseas. This is done by liquefying hydrogen, transporting the liquefied hydrogen in cryogenic tankers overseas and, when it reaches the source of consumption, transforming it to normal electrical energy which will energise lights such as we have in this chamber. It is quite significant because it is clear that the price of fossil fuels will simply go on rising and there is no plateau in sight. These rises are more than the inflation rate and that is quite incredible. 
In Australia the time at which the Bass Strait oil will run out will be in the region of 10 years and this will leave us with only the Middle East for supplies. We will be at the tender mercies of the Arabs and their prices. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has already spoken about this in the United Nations General Assembly only recently. I can see a time when the price of petrol, perhaps in 10 years, will be above $1 a gallon. Progress in atomic energy engineering is such that we will not be ready in 10 years to take over with atomic energy, but if we went solar, particularly in the house hold needs area, we would have some chance of taking up to 25 per cent of our fossil fuel requirements. Professor Bockris has told me that he feels downhearted because for more than 18 months he and his colleagues have been working towards this obviously Australian activity. Why spend $ 18m on atomic energy which we do not need and only $0.2m on solar energy? 
America has recognised the importance of solar heat and recently in a Press statement issued in Detroit I read the following: 
Solar energy could provide at least a fifth of the United States' total fuel needs by the year 2020, the US Government Solar Energy Panel reported here today. With an investment of $77m over the next 10 years on development of inexpensive thermal collectors, storage devices, and air conditioners, one per cent of US buildings could have solar heat and cooling by 1985, 10 per cent by 2000, and 30 per cent by 2020. 
The group, consisting of 40 scientists and engineers, submitted its recommendations on the world 's fuel needs for the next 30 years. 
Solar heating and cooling systems could be put on a commercial basis within five to 10 years, the panel said. 
A few American houses already have solar energy collection systems. 
A flat plate traps the thermal energy beneath glass plates and the energy is usually stored in insulated tanks. 
I am talking, of course, about solar energy and its importance to Australia. Australia is far more suitable for the use of solar energy than even the United States and I might tell even  Senator Sim  a little about that in a moment. I am hoping that there is some intelligence on the opposite side and that someone there might take up this challenge as well. On 19 September this year the following news item appeared: 
The United States Senate today passed a Bill to double the US Government 's funds for solar energy research. 
The measure was sent to the House of Representatives where a similar measure is due to be taken up tomorrow. 
The Senate Bill authorises US$ 100m ($67m) for solar energy research in the year that starts next July 1- double the amount budgeted for the current year. 
It also creates a US Solar Energy Research Institute. The Senate interior committee said in approving the Bill that it would cost up to US$ 1 billion over five years to make solar energy commercially viable. 
This is where we have to be moving- in an area that is obviously scientifically possible. I have asked the Government to provide funds for the Flinders University- in fact for any university or the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation- to ensure that the energy supplies for the future of Australia are assured. Professor Bockris has said:   . . why is it that one hears always about the developments of atomic energy in the United States and Europe, rather than of solar power? One answer to the question is that these countries are much less richly endowed with the beneficence of the sun than is Australia. 
I am going through this really for the benefit of  Senator Sim  but am hoping that Government senators will recognise the significance of this scientist's assessment of Australia's potential. 

 - Mr Connor is a man who is dogmatically concerned with coal mining and this sort of thing, which of course is important, but I do not think that  Mr Connor  has the capacity to look further forward than about a year or so by which time he will be out of government and will have left us with the problem of dealing with the future energy supplies of Australia. Thank heavens that the Liberal and Country Parties have recognised the significance of solar energy and have written that into their energy platforms. It now enjoys a significant place in that platform. Professor Bockris went on to say: 
There are no technologically advanced countries which can be compared with Australia in respect to the amount of solar energy she receives- and could collect and convert to electricity. 
Professor Bockris is a physical scientist and one who knows a considerable amount about this subject. He continued: 
It is therefore a much more attractive proposition for Australia to look at solar energy than for America or Europe to do so. 
What about honourable senators on the other side getting involved in this matter and providing the universities and the CSIRO with a lot more money so that they can further their experiments? In 10 years solar energy could become a viable proposition for Australia and, as  Senator Cavanagh  has said, there is no reason why Australia in the future could not be the solar energy source for the world and transport its energy to other countries which will be desperately needing that within the next decade or so. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. I refer to 'Operation Pimp' which commenced in South Australia this week for the benefit of the State Labor Government. Is it a fact that this media monitoring system cost the South Australian taxpayers $9,000  and that it is designed to monitor radio and television news as well as current affairs and talkback programs? Which Federal Minister or Ministers approved the installation? Does the State Government hold a licence to operate it? If so, what is the annual fee payable to the Commonwealth? Can the Minister say whether he is certain that this facility is in conformity with section 120 of the Broadcasting and Television Act? Is the Minister aware that  Mr Kevin  Crease, the Government-paid entrepreneur of the show, on television and radio interviews gave  Mr Dunstan  a top rating but gave the Leader of the Opposition a low rating? Is it not quite incredible that that should happen in a Government paid service? As this system which is extremely reminiscent of the Goebbels era will be used by the professional Labor Party Press secretaries to manipulate the news media to the advantage of Government Ministers and officials, will the Minister approve the same facilities for the Liberal Party Opposition? 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. I refer to the decision by the Government to grant experimental licences for FM radio in Melbourne and Sydney and the decision to establish new Australian Broadcasting Commission radio stations. Can the Minister say whether discussions have been held with the Public Broadcasting Association and other interested groups with a view to the development of community radio? Does the PostmasterGeneral have the sole responsibility for the granting of new radio licences, whether they are experimental or otherwise? Will the Australian Broadcasting Control Board be the authority to ensure that objective, balanced standards are maintained in the establishment of new radio services or does the Minister plan to establish another representative body to perform that function? Can the Minister indicate whether it is intended that legislation be brought down to ratify the changes which are being proposed for radio broadcasting? 
I present the following petition from 1 30 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That once telephone facilities have been established in rural areas, these facilities should not be discontinued in certain areas, as they deprive people the opportunity of making urgent contact with such people as medical practitioners and stock agents, who are many miles away; 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should urge the Government to have reopened, those telephone exchanges in rural areas which previously open at all times, have now been closed during certain night hours. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I rise on behalf of the Liberal Party Opposition to support these Bills. It is not unnatural that I would want to speak in this debate because for a long time I lived at Port Augusta. In my view Port Augusta is the headquarters of the railways of Australia. When I was elected to the House of Representatives in 1966 I quite naturally took a very intimate interest in railway projects, particularly in South Australia. Late in the election campaign when I was gaining some confidence, and recognising the dangers of a politician's making any promises, I said at Whyalla that when I was elected to the House of Representatives I would ensure that a railway line was constructed from Port Augusta to Whyalla. In spite of some of the criticisms that were levelled at Liberal Party members in the other House yesterday that we are going to do this and going to do that but do not do anything, I can fairly say that the Liberal-Country Party Government at that time certainly recognised the need to construct a railway line to Whyalla. In October 1971 that line was constructed true to the promise of  Mr Gorton,  the then Prime Minister. The railway from Port Augusta to Whyalla was completed in accordance with the program laid down by the Liberal-Country Party Government of the day. 
After that my interest extended to connecting Adelaide by rail to the east-west line. Having seen the Indian Pacific line well on its way this was a very important project to contemplate. I was in a fortunate position, being a member of the Transport Committee of the Liberal-Country Party Government.  Mr Calder,  the member for the Northern Territory, was secretary of the Committee and in the latter days of my time in that House I was  chairman  of the Committee. We were able to persuade the Government of the importance of the projects that we are considering tonight. I am glad to say that provision was made for money to be allocated to those jobs. It was rather unfortunate with respect to the Crystal Brook to Adelaide section that there was trouble with the South Australian Government. It had doubts as to where the spur line should be situated and because of that some time elapsed before the work could proceed. I recall that  Mr Gorton  mentioned in his policy speech in October 1969 that we would build the Port Pirie to Adelaide railway at an estimated cost of between $30m and $50m. It was suggested that the project could take about 2 years to complete. The Bill under consideration which deals with that particular project suggests that the cost will be $81m, and this gives a clear indication of what has happened since the Liberal-Country Party Government was defeated in 1972. The cost has escalated to that amount and, I might say, that is calculated on January prices. Being a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and having some knowledge of public works, I realise just how much more the cost of that line would have escalated since January 1974. It would be my estimate that the cost of that project would now be approximately $90m. I would like the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  to inform me of the current estimates of the cost of construction of that line. 
The previous Government saw fit to designate the construction of that line as one of its priorities, and it was only because of the difficulties with the South Australian Government that the work could not be proceeded with much ahead of the timing that we are considering tonight. My concern is that the recent Budget has appropriated an expenditure of only approximately $900,000 this year for this project. At this rate, of course, its construction will take much longer than the 3 years which I think is suggested. The Government must certainly do something about allocating far greater sums of money to this project next year and in subsequent years if its program is to be completed. 
I wish to refer now to the standardisation program in South Australia. This line, of course, will connect Adelaide to the east-west line. I noted that in his speech in another place on this Bill the Honourable W. C. Wentworth said that there is still one bit missing and that, of course, is the standard gauge link between Melbourne and Adelaide. In spite of bogey exchange methods, which have certainly improved the efficiency of rail transportation, the standardisation program should become a matter of high priority for this Government, and I urge the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to direct the attention of his colleague to this project which will complete the program of linking up all the capital cities in Australia with a standard gauge railway system. 
I now direct my attention to the TarcoolaAlice Springs railway line. This railway line has been of particular interest to me. I recall that in 1967, 1 think it was, the Commissioner for Railways furnished to the Government, at the request of the Minister of the day,  Mr Sinclair,  a report on an adequate link between South Australia and the Northern Territory. The report suggested 3 proposals. I believe one of the proposals was an upgrading of the existing line. Another proposal was that the railway line should follow quite a different route to the one that we are discussing tonight. The third proposal, which we are looking at, seemed to me to be the obvious choice. The proposal was that the route should be on higher terrain, and at that time it was certainly a much better economic proposition. The report became the subject of attention of the Government Members Transport Committee, of which I have said I was  Chairman  and  Mr Calder,  who has a particular interest in this project, was the secretary. We were requested to make a submission and we collated the material that was available. Having had the support of the national development committee of" that time, we submitted a proposition to the then Minister. As a result of this joint submission to the Minister of the day,  Mr Sinclair,  and the Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  this project ultimately received the blessing of the Liberal-Country Party Government. 
Following upon that an amount of money was set aside so that a survey could be carried out of the route that the line was to take. I forget the exact sum which was set aside, but it was something of the order of $250,000 or $300,000. As a result of that survey, in 1972 the Liberal-Country Party Government made an allocation of $54m for this project. In the 1972-73 Budget an amount in excess of $2,500,000 was set aside so that construction on this project could commence. The cost of the project at that time was estimated to be of the order of $54m. We find that today we are contemplating a project with a ceiling cost, according to the Bill, of $ 145 m. The Budget, of course, allows only $2m to be spent on the project in the current financial year. It is my assessment that the cost of the work could well exceed $ 145m. 
Unlike the Adelaide-Crystal Brook Une, I have not seen any indication of the specification of the rails for that line. I think the Adelaide-Crystal Brook Railway Bill outlines the specifications for that line, and I may have missed the specifications in the Tarcoola-Alice Springs Railway Bill. 
But perhaps the Minister could enlighten me on this. I think it is desirable that the lb yard weight should be at least 107 lb or possibly even 1 15 lb, because in my view this line could be a very significant transport facility in the future. Because of the rising cost of fuel, I envisage that shipping companies will be looking to discharge their cargo at Darwin, for example, which is much closer to most overseas ports than other ports on our eastern seaboard. It occurs to me that the Government ought to be looking ahead to the time when Darwin will become a major overseas container terminal. Therefore the railway line to Alice Springs ought to be capable of carrying heavy cargoes at high speeds. This brings me to the point of suggesting that the Government ought to be looking further ahead to the linking of Alice Springs to Darwin by rail. 
I share with other people a concern about the problems that may be faced by the people living in the northern part of South Australia in the William Creek-Oodnadatta area. The honourable member for Wakefield,  Mr Kelly,  said that he had some concern about future transport problems in that area. I recognise that we must have a look at the economic feasibility of the line and the route which has been suggested will certainly provide an opportunity for smaller mining enterprises to be viable. The line will run I think, east- I am sorry, west of Coober Pedy. 
The honourable senator has never been to Coober Pedy; he would not know anything about it. The line runs somewhere near Mabel Creek homestead, which is very near Coober Pedy. That area makes a great contribution to the economy of South Australia. The Minister has probably travelled over the area by Landrover and no doubt he knows the precise route that it will follow. I understand the area fairly well. I have visited Coober Pedy on many occasions and realise that that area will profit by having this railway line. 
Let me refer again to the plight of the people in the Oodnadatta area. I suggest that this is a problem for the Government for the future. Hopefully it will be a problem for a LiberalCountry Party government. We would like to be looking towards the provision of a more adequate road in that area to offset the problems of these people. I realise that the present Government is continuing the policy of the former Government and is progressing with a sealed road from the Top End down to the Northern Territory border. I hope that this will proceed and that those people up in that area will at least have some access by way of a sealed road, even if it is to the north. It is my view that the State Government ought to be given some help in providing the facility, at least from Marree up to Oodnadatta. I understand that the State Government has already announced its intention to provide a sealed road up to Marree in, I hope, the relatively near future. 
I must agree with  Senator Hall  there. The way that the Dunstan Government is behaving at the moment absolutely horrifies people on this side of the House. It may well be that a future Liberal-Country Party government will have to help out in that respect. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)  Order! 

 -Mr Deputy President, it would take far more than  Senator McLaren  to ruffle my feathers. I would like to quote a passage from 'Railway Transportation'. I do not know whether  Senator McLaren  has read this but the article illustrates the present situation. It says: 
Copper concentrates from Tennant Creek in the Northern Territory are sent by road to Alice Springs for railing to Port Pirie for processing and export; at present these are conveyed over the Commonwealth Railways . . . line from Alice Springs via Oodnadatta and . . . from Marree south. 
This route is due to be replaced by the line that we are considering at present. The article continues: 
The greater haulage capacity of the new route would enable expanded production from Northern Territory mines, and make several proposed small-scale operations there more viable. 
While we are referring to this north-south line it is as well to remember that frequent washaways have created tremendous problems for the inhabitants of the Northern Territory. I was in Tennant Creek the weekend before last. I was talking to residents up there who were most upset about the way in which their food supplies were disrupted by the frequent flooding of the north-south railway line. The business people there expressed great concern that the Government had not been doing enough to ensure that they received adequate supplies of fresh foods at reasonable freight costs. I was alarmed to learn this. One can learn these things only by going to these areas. It is a pity that more members of Parliament do not take the trouble to do so. These people told me that unless something is done to provide the shopkeepers with fresh vegetables and fresh food to feed the population, some of them are seriously contemplating leaving the town during this critical time and returning when the flooding is not likely to occur. 
In my view, this is a very important matter. It is a matter that I think is quite appropriate to raise on this occasion because during the construction of this railway line it is quite feasible that more floodings will occur and continued disruption will affect the provision of food to those important areas of Australia. So I ask the Minister to bear that in mind. I think that I have taken up enough time of the Senate. I support both of these Bills. They are a continuation of the policies that were promoted and initiated by the previous Government. I am glad to see that the present Government is continuing those policies. My only regret is that it has not had sufficient funds, because it has squandered them in many other ways, to provide far more money in this financial year to get on with the job and to see that these projects are finished as early as possible. 
In directing my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate I refer to the ban by the Federated Clerks Union on imported cars. If continued it will do tremendous damage to the industry. Is the Minister aware that in South Australia alone there are about 400 new vehicle dealers who employ between 5,000 and 6,000 people? Does he realise that many of these people would be employed by companies dealing almost solely in fully imported foreign cars? Has the Minister noted the statement by a representative of motor car dealers in South Australia in which he said that if these cars could not be landed at Port Adelaide the companies would be brought to a standstill within a few weeks? Has he also noted the statement made or the concern expressed by one major distributor in South Australia who said that his company sold about 200 Datsun vehicles a month, of which about 60 per cent were imported fully assembled? This representative stated that his company's 2 branches would quickly run out of stock and this would affect the jobs of between 130 and 140 employees. Reinforcing what  Senator Greenwood  has already said I ask: What is the Government doing to prevent unemployment in this important industry? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade say whether clothing imports from Korea, Taiwan, India and Hong Kong have almost entirely stopped in recent weeks? Is it a fact that no quota exists with respect to the import of goods from communist China and that such imports are flowing freely into Australia? Is the Minister aware of the confusion and uncertainty caused to manufacturers' agents throughout Australia who are unable to fulfil orders due to the Government's stop-go trading policy? 
I support what  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Guilfoyle  said with respect to the proposed amendment. I take it that the Commission will be reporting annually to the Parliament. The Commission will be subject to the scrutiny of the Auditor-General and this House will have a further opportunity to examine its operations through the Public Accounts Committee. In my view there is adequate parliamentary scrutiny over the Commission and I wholeheartedly support the amendment proposed by the Opposition. 
I rise to contribute again to this debate. I indicated earlier that this particular Commission is under the scrutiny of Parliament through the AuditorGeneral and also through the medium of the Joint Committee on Public Accounts. Some honourable senators who have not been in this chamber for very long may not appreciate that particular point. I mentioned this when I spoke earlier. I want to make a point here in support of what  Senator Guilfoyle  has said.  Senator Hall  would like to give the Minister the power to dictate whatever script is required for his own purposes. We believe that this is a very dangerous power for any Minister to have, because it would enable him to generate his own propaganda machine. From what we have seen of the Labor Government since it came to power, this would be a very dangerous power with which to provide a Minister. But I say this irrespective of the government that may be in power. 

 Senator Guilfoyle has said already that this amendment moved by the Opposition certainly does not inhibit the Minister's capacity to go to the Australian Film Commission with a request for a certain theme for a film. He goes to the expert body and says that he wants a film made on a particular theme. The Film Commission has the expertise available to comply with a request put in that way from the Minister. The same applies to any department that wants to have a film made. The department has the capacity to go to the expert Commission for that purpose. We believe that it is not in the best interests of the Commission for the legislation to enable the Minister to intrude into this area by dictating what ought to be the actual script of the film that is contemplated. Therefore, I support what  Senator Guilfoyle  has already said very capably, namely, that we oppose the idea of giving the Minister these powers, and I support her amendment. 
I direct a question to the Postmaster-General, partly in his capacity as Postmaster-General and partly in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to the report that the Woomera rocket range could face the Government axe after 1976. Can the Minister say whether the Government is contemplating other uses for the area to retain the scientific and technical staff employed by the Weapons Research Eastablishment at Woomera and Salisbury? Has the Government given consideration to the possible use of Woomera for research and development associated with the provision of a Postmaster-General's Department telecommunications satellite for Australia? As complete continental television coverage is possible only by this means, will the Minister explore the possibility of a joint venture with other countries in this region with object of making such a proposal economically viable and also of providing a facility that would be of mutual benefit to the countries concerned? I am thinking in particular of Indonesia which has indicated a requirement for such a satellite. 
I would like to intrude into this debate for 2 minutes. 
-I know that the Government Whip would afford me one or two minutes in order to support the Opposition's point of view with respect to this Bill. I, of course, endorse the action taken by the Government in raising the pensions by the amount in the Bill, that is, by 50c a week which will bring the increase to $5.50 a week. No doubt the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  who represents the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in his flamboyant reply will demonstrate that the Government has made some concessions in this regard since coming to office. But we on this side of the Senate suggest that the increase is not sufficient because of the rate at which costs are increasing in the community. Of course, the people who can least afford this increase in costs are those on fixed incomes, including those people whose suffering we are trying to alleviate tonight. We have seen in recent times the increase in postal charges which will affect the pensioners. We have seen the increased charges in other areas which certainly will touch the pockets of these people. Therefore, the Opposition is quite correct in bringing these points to the attention of the Government. 
It is quite pleasing to me that  Senator Hall  is supporting the amendment that has been proposed by  Senator Guilfoyle  on behalf of the Opposition, namely, that there be incorporated in this measure some consideration for widowers and deserted husbands with dependent children. We state that they ought to be eligible for some benefit on the same basis as widows and deserted wives. It gives me some encouragement that  Senator Hall  chooses to support us in this regard. Over the last 30 sitting days of the Parliament he has chosen to support the Government 49 times in votes in this chamber. I believe that we ought to be working towards helping the people who are mentioned in this amendment. This is a matter to which the Opposition will pay regard when we unseat the present Labor Government. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has indicated ways in which some economies could be effected by the present Government. We have suggested that $ 1,000m could be saved in public expenditure. But just because we suggest that - 
It would be saved in certain public works and matters of extravagance in this economic situation. We have also suggested that $ 1,000m ought to be paid back to the taxpayers of Australia. These suggestions represent real attempts to do something about the economic situation at the present time. We would reduce the increase in public expenditure to 25 per cent from 32 per cent, which is the percentage the present Government is contemplating. In this way, we believe that we could effect economies that would enable the Government to provide far more benefits in the way of social services, and in particular with respect to the Bill that we are discussing tonight. With those few remarks, I support the Opposition amendment. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Foreign Affairs purchased a villa in Florence, Italy; if so, (a) when was the purchase made; (b) what was the purchase price; and (c) why was the purchase necessary. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and I refer to the recent announcement by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry that the Government has decided to encourage inventors in Australia by providing grants. Is it a fact that 40 per cent of patents taken out this year would in all probability be invalid? As the Government decision that I referred to will undoubtedly result in more patents being taken out, can the AttorneyGeneral say whether the present search system employed by patent attorneys is effective in affording protection to aspiring inventors? If this 40 per cent invalidity is correct, and as the application for a patent involves the applicant in considerable expense in patent attorney fees, will the Attorney-General examine the methods now  employed in this area so that an inventor issued with a patent can be assured that he is afforded complete protection against the intrusion of similar devices from overseas and within Australia? 
Thank you,  Mr President. 
In answering any such Question, a  Senator shall  not debate the matter to which the same refers. 
The Government Leader constantly debates the question. I ask you to uphold that Standing Order. 
-I ask the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation - 
-I think you will find it is. I have had several inquiries recently about the progress of the Toose inquiry into repatriation. Can the Minister say whether the report has been completed and when he will be able to table it in the Senate? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the  Deputy  Prime Minister's pending visit to the United States and other countries to persuade overseas enterprises to invest in Australia. As this seems to be an incredible reversal of Government policy in respect of overseas investment in this country, can the Minister give details of the type of investment that the Government has in mind and the amount of capital that the  Deputy  Prime Minister hopes to attract from foreign investors? 
-I refer' to a recent announcement that the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  made with respect to the reopening of the Birrallee section ofthe hospital in Belair, South Australia, for, I understand, the benefit of nursing home and convalescent patients.  Senator Baume  has mentioned the matter of staffing repatriation establishments. I understand that the reopening of Birrallee is to be done without increasing the staff. I also recall in the statement made by the Minister that the rehabilitation services at the Daw Park Repatriation General Hospital are to be extended. 
I am talking about repatriation patients who I understand do require increased facilities and I commend the Minister on recognising this need. I am concerned that this may react against the interests of acutely ill patients at the Daw Park Repatriation General Hospital. I am also concerned that the Birrallee area is on very steeply graded terrain. For this reason it occurs to me that it would be inappropriate for wheelchair patients and also for elderly or feeble ambulant patients. As the Minister may be aware, the wards are on different levels. If this place is to be used for convalescent and nursing home patients they will be restricted to one level. 1 ask the Minister whether he has contemplated any extensions or any renovations with respect to the facilities that are available at Birrallee because I am quite certain that the facilities there at present would not be conducive to the adequate housing of wheelchair patients. I would also like to know whether it is a fact that this establishment is to be reopened without any increase in professional and support staff. In addition, when will the ward of the Daw Park Repatriation General Hospital at Birrallee be opened? 
-I would like to raise the matter of television services. I understand that this is the responsibility of the Postmaster-General's Department. We are now in the era of colour television and yet television is not available to many isolated areas of Australia. It appears to me that a lot of work is being done in research into the possibility of providing a satellite for Australia to provide telecommunications and television services on a continental basis. I would appreciate it if the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop)  would report on the progress of his Department on this aspect. I understand that a lot of work has been done. I would appreciate it if he would let me know what work is currently being done in this regard. 
-I refer briefly to the national employment and training scheme, known as NEAT, that has been introduced into Australia recently. I am anxious to ascertain what is the present weekly cost of this scheme and how many people are involved in it. In particular, I want to know why the people involved in the scheme are not included in the unemployment statistics. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development aware of the grave concern expressed by scientists, conservationists and residents in the Hallett Cove area of South Australia over the inaction of the Federal and State Labor Governments to acquire land to provide a buffer zone for the protection of the 600 million year old amphitheatre which has been described by scientists as a unique geological treasure house? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to telegrams from members of the South Australian Science Teachers Association requesting urgent action to prevent the continuation of bulldozing close to the edge of the amphitheatre, which already has resulted in one corner being filled in? As this area has already attracted the attention of the Minister for the Environment and ConservationI understand he is absent from Australia at present- and as he has inspected the place and said that it should be preserved as a priceless historic feature for South Australia, will the Minister take urgent steps to see that this area is declared part of the National Estate? Will he ensure that Commonwealth funds are made available to secure it for that purpose? 
-I am sorry that I was not present at the resumption of this debate, but I am concerned to squeeze a little more information out of the Minister with respect to Birrallee Convalescent Home, which is going to be an additional ward for the Daw Park Repatriation General Hospital. As I said last night, I have examined the area very carefully and there is a large building on the street level and down on two other levels there seem to be the wards that are going to be used, as I understand it, for nursing home patients- I believe there is quite a large number of them- many of whom will be in wheelchairs. I ask the Minister: What alterations are going to be made in order to make the wards suitable for the use of wheelchair patients and what cost will be involved? I envisage that there could be toilets, for example, with wider doors and larger toilet buildings, because the area may not be suitable for that type of patient. Another matter in which I am interested is the provision of meals for these patients. Again, I understand, the kitchen is on the top level and the meals will have to be carried by waitresses down to these two levels. 
Another aspect that worries me is that it appears that this ward is going to be reopenedand I commend the Department for doing thatwithout any additional staff. I do not see how that can possibly be achieved without making some impact on the numbers of acutely ill patients who can be treated at the main general hospital. Additionally, I understand that the Minister has said there are going to be further extensions of rehabilitation services at Daw Park by the acquiring of a property next door that the Australian Government originally owned anyway. In my view, this extension is going to create problems with staffing. I again press the Minister on that point and seek his definite assurance that there is going to be no diminution in the numbers of patients in the acutely ill category who can be treated. 
I wish to raise the question of the National Estate. This morning I asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  who represents the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  in the Senate a question concerning the preservation of the Hallett Cove area and in regard to the fact that there were bulldozers in the area encroaching upon a very important geological structure that is of great importance to South Australia. I think that the Minister was very sympathetic with the idea of the preservation of this area. He said that he had inspected this part of South Australia when he was a member of the Opposition. He stated that he tried to get money from the then Government in order that this area could be preserved. But he seemed to show disinterest in the matter because he did not give me any answer to my question. I want to know what the Federal Government intends doing with respect to that very important area of South Australia. Scientifically and geologically it is a most significant and unique feature of that State. Yet, the Minister seemed to me to brush aside the matter and treat it in a very off-hand manner. 
The Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  has visited South Australia to inspect this geological structure and agrees that something ought to be done about it. In my view, the Federal Parliament and the Federal Government ought to accept this responsibility. It ought either to try to persuade the South Australian Government to alter its attitude with respect to the plan for this area or to acquire it for the benefit of the South Australian people as part of the National Estate. I would like the Minister to give me a more sympathetic answer than he gave this morning during question time. 
I have been provoked to rise to my feet again on this matter. I have been approached by people who are interested in the geological structure of the Hallett Cove area. They are gravely concerned because bulldozers are encroaching on this area. 
-That is a good idea. I might even do that. But what I am suggesting to the Government and in particular to  Senator Cavanagh  is that they are now in a position to do something about prohibiting any further bulldozing in that area until the Minister has had a chance to examine it on the basis of the evidence that has been presented by his colleague the Minister for Environment and Conservation,  Dr Cass.  There is no point in following up  Senator Button's  idea that this matter should be referred to a committee because by the time a committee reports on it this amphitheatre, which is a 600 million year old geological structure, could be destroyed. So I am supporting the concept of preserving this part of South Australia. I am supporting the concept of the National Estate which I believe is a credit to the present Government. As a Liberal I am not too proud to recognise some of the things that have been done by the Government that are good although  99lh  per cent of the things it has done to this country have been disastrous and are tending to wreck the economy and to wreck a country that Liberal-Country Party governments built up over a period of 23 years. In a matter of less than 2 years the present Government has effectively destroyed this. I am suggesting that the Minister should not allow this part of South Australia to be destroyed because I think it ought to be preserved as an area that could be included in the National Estate. I am paying the Minister a very very strong tribute for the action that he has taken in this field. My only criticism is that he has done nothing about his promises and neither has the South Australian Government. This is causing a good deal of worry to scientists, geologists and residents in this area who are concerned about this matter and I share that concern. 
Has the Attorney-General and Minister for Customs and Excise any information about the questions I raised regarding commissions and consultants' fees? 
When Estimates Committee A discussed this Department the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy)  will recall that I asked a few questions relating to the procedures adopted when examining imported brandies. He undertook to get the information for me. I have received a letter from the Minister, through  Senator James  McClelland, the  Chairman  of Senate Estimates Committee A. I propose to read the letter for the benefit of the record and perhaps pose one or two questions after doing so. 
I think the information is interesting. 
-I do not want to filibuster. I will read the letter in part and then seek leave to have the whole of it incorporated. The letter states that 4 shipments of brandy are at present detained; that 86 cartons of Austrian brandy are detained at Port Adelaide; that 15 cases from Portugal have been detained since November 1973 in Sydney; that 250 cases ex-France have been held in Melbourne since 12 September 1974; and that 2 cases ex-Portugal are held in Fremantle. 
I also asked questions concerning the effects of the increase in excise on the sale of brandy in Australia. I received the following information in the letter: 
In answer to  Senator Jessop's  second question 1 have obtained the following statistics for Australian brandy cleared for home consumption and the duty paid thereon in the years ended 3 1 August 1973 and 3 1 August 1 974: 
In the Budget of 2 1 August 1973 the excise duty on brandy was increased from $3 per litre of alcohol to $6 per litre of alcohol. This was further increased on 23 July 1974 to $8.55 per litre of alcohol. 
The figures given above show that the volume of clearances in the year 1973-74 fell by 23 per cent but the revenue from brandy increased by 53 per cent. 
I seek leave to have the letter incorporated in Hansard. 
-This highlights the concern that has been shown repeatedly by  Senator Laucke  and the honourable member for Angas,  Mr Giles,  in regard to the judgment of the Government in increasing the excise on Australian brandy to this extent. It appears to me that the situation is further aggravated by the introduction of too much imported brandy to Australia. This is giving the local industry a lot of concern. I ask the Minister first of all whether he can give a bit more information as to how it is determined that the imported brandy has been, in fact, in the wood for 2 years and whether it consists of grape fluid. Does someone swig a few grams down or is some technical procedure adopted? 
-Perhaps I will volunteer. I should like to know whether  Senator Murphy  can tell me the excise payable on imported brandy and whether he would consider a substantial increase in such an excise and a substantial reduction in the impost on Australian brandies to assist the industry which is certainly suffering, as can be seen from the figures I have just read out. 
-The matter we are discussing has been the subject of a considerable amount of public comment and adverse criticism at a time when the economy is in a turbulent state. It is quite natural for people to question whether we should be paying millions of dollars for paintings for the national art collection. I think it is a proper subject to be fully discussed. It was for that reason that I initiated the question to  Mr Mollison  with respect to what art works were contemplated under this Une of the estimates. He gave me, I believe, a thoughtful answer to my question. Although this was a public hearing and he preferred not to divulge the precise nature of the paintings he may have in mind for the national art collection, he pointed out the dangers of giving the Committee specific details and the effect that it could have on the purchase of such paintings. He pointed out that it may result in the withdrawal of certain works or them being placed beyond the reach of the national collection. I was satisfied with that and did not pursue that line of questioning any further. 
But I was very keen to find out whether any other advice was obtained or whether he was the only person to decide what art works should be purchased. I learned that there was some consultation carried out and that there was an item of expenditure to cover that consultation. It was item 05 for the sum of $94,400. 1 wanted to find out just how much of that sum was paid to consultants and who the consultants were. Also I was anxious to determine the commissions that were paid in respect of such purchases and to whom these commissions were paid. I think it would be helpful if the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  could give us an example. We have purchased 2 paintings, 'Blue Poles' and 'Woman V'.I would like an idea of the proportion that is allowed for commissions on these purchases. What are the details in respect of those 2 paintings? How much were the commissions and to whom were they paid? I think  Mr Mollison  told me that commissions varied considerably. The commission for dealers promoting a painting by a famous artist could be as low as 2 per cent or 3 per cent, but in the case of an unknown artist the figure could be up to 80 per cent. I think this is significant and I would like the details to be provided. 
If information concerning which paintings are being considered for the National Art Collection was provided in committee there could be a possibility of its being leaked and that could be of detriment to the Government. That is the attitude I adopted. Unfortunately  Senator Greenwood  initiated a similar line of questioning and took a different point of view. That is his business and I respect him for that attitude if he cares to take it. I certainly would have no wish to protect the Minister. I certainly did not take that line in order to protect the Minister; I took it purely and simply as a businessman. Having said that, I hope the Minister can help me by providing the details I have requested. I think it proper that this information be provided in view of the public interest in this subject. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am reminded by  Senator Coleman's  first question today about suntan oil of a report that I heard on a commercial radio station in South Australia yesterday to the effect that a number of Australian tourists were arrested and jailed following nude sunbathing in Bali, Indonesia. Has the Minister received a report on this incident from his Department? If so, can he give details to the Senate? In view of the increasing numbers of Australian tourists of all types who visit that area, will the Minister consider establishing a consulate in Bali in order to advise Australian visitors on local customs and also to assist local authorities if such incidents should occur? 
I present the following petition from 135 citizens of Australia. 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia showeth: that a capital gains tax applying as another death duty is unjust in its application and catastrophic in its effect. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that a capital gains tax be not levied in addition to death duties. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade and the Treasurer. Does he recall that I directed to him during the week before the  Deputy  Prime Minister's latest overseas trip a question relating to his reported intention to seek overseas investment in Australia, which appeared to be a reversal of Government policy? Does the Minister remember telling me that  Dr Cairns  was not going overseas for this purpose? As  Dr Cairns  on a radio program referred to the interest of American investment in Australia, can the Minister now give details of the type of investment the Government has in mind and the amount of capital that the  Deputy  Prime Minister has attracted or hopes to attract from foreign sources to Australia? Finally, if the Government is still interested in encouraging Australians to invest in Australian enterprises, will the Minister ask the Treasurer to abandon the proposed tax on unearned income and re-create the incentives necessary for Australian taxpayers to assist in the development of this country? 
I  address a question to the Attorney-General. I refer to the rejection of the South Australian Government's Privacy Bill and the proposals by the Opposition in that State to set up a commission to assess whether existing laws ought to be extended. Has the Government given any thought to the establishment of a national Press council along the lines of that in the United Kingdom? If not, will the Minister consider setting up a commission to inquire into its possibility and to lay down possible guidelines for the of States in this matter? 
I rise to make one or two comments on the Bill that is before the House. It is a Bill for an Act to provide financial assistance in relation to local governing bodies. I do not think that I appreciated the comments that were made by  Senator Gietzelt  about my colleague  Senator Carrick  who, I believe, laid down in very clear terms the feelings of Opposition senators. We believe that this Bill provides the opportunity for the Government to do something about the unemployment situation in Australia. I have been travelling around South Australia, as is my habit, and I have discussed the problems with local government authorities. The feeling in South Australia was that the Bill that is before us would provide local government authorities with additional funds to compensate them in some way for their lack of finance to fulfil their obligations in the local government area, particularly in respect of main and district roads in an area where the Government has deprived them of funds. 
One particular council with which I discussed the problem was a council on Eyre Peninsula. The district clerk said: 'Look, I thought this grant was going to compensate for the loss of funds that we have experienced due to the Commonwealth aid roads grants'. This council is down no less than $8,000 in this respect, in spite of the money that the Government is providing under this Bill. Of course the Government in providing money under the Commonwealth aid roads grants scheme for roads, particularly in rural areas, over the next 3 years, paid no regard to the fact that the cost of constructing roads had escalated at a rate of about 10 per cent up to the time that the new Commonwealth aid roads grants scheme was contemplated. The Government forgot that since that time the costs of road construction have escalated way and above what was contemplated under the scheme. So these people have been deluded by the Government into believing that the Bill which is before us will compensate them for that fact. 
I have before me figures which show that out of 85 district councils in South Australia, 62 of them were down and only 23 of them happened to be marginally up on the road grants that were provided in 1973-74. So it is quite phoney for the Government to come forward and say that it is being generous with this Bill. It has certainly left local government bodies in South Australia in particular with a question mark in their minds as to the integrity of the Federal Government. I support the point of view put forward by  Senator Carrick  when he said that the Canberra-based Grants Commission has become, in effect, the rating authority of local government throughout Australia. 
My source of information happens to be the Local Government Association in South Australia. 
-I will give  Senator Wriedt  the figures that I have, certainly. He can have them. 
-Or they can be tabled. There is no question about the integrity of my remarks. I am suggesting that the figures that I have here are authentic and demonstrate that many councils will be disadvantaged in the future as a result of this Bill. 

 - Senator Gietzelt interjects very aggressively with a guilty conscience because he knows very well that his Government has deprived local government authorities in Australia as a result of the Commonwealth aid roads agreement. I can understand his agitation. We believe that providing money in the local government area is one way in which the Government can provide job opportunities for the unemployed in Australia. I go back to 1972 when the Australian Labor Party, in its policy statement, said that Labor's first priority would be to restore genuine full employment without qualification and without hedging. I think it is interesting to remind Government senators of some of the remarks that have been made by their spokesmen. I recall a statement made by  Mr Hawke.  He said that the unemployment figures confirmed the restoration of confidence in the economy and the implementation by the Government of its promises of full employment. I remind the Government that in the 1974 policy speech the Australian people were asked to think again. They were asked to remember the situation that obtained when they elected the Government in 1972. The Government claimed that unemployment was then at its worst for 10 years but said that full employment had been restored. What a phony statement.  Senator Gietzelt  dares to suggest that the Australian people ought to have confidence in the Government. I remind the Senate that in Hansard the new Treasurer,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, - 
They have sacked Crean. Cairns has, in effect, sacked Crean. In July this year in Hansard  Dr Cairns  is reported to have said that it would be the purpose of the Government to prevent unemployment occurring and to ensure that there were alternative jobs. Perhaps a little more ought to be said about what  Dr Cairns  has stated. The 'Australian' of 18 July 1974 reported him as saying: 
These figures indicate that up to the end of June unemployment was insignificant and carefully under control. 
It might even excite supporters of the Government to recall what the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said. He said he would sooner resign than preside over an unemployment figure of 250,000 people in Australia. Only today I read in the 'Australian' where  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Austraiian Labor Party and  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, forecast that there could be 300,000 people out of work in Australia by January. Perhaps this may herald the resignation of  Mr Cameron  as Minister for Labor and Immigration. 
-I believe that  Senator Marriott's  comment is quite valid. I endorse what he said. 
-Would the honourable senator like to repeat it just for the benefit of  Senator Milliner? 
Thank you, senator. This merely illustrates our concern, on this side of the 
House, with respect to this Bill. We believe that this is an area where the Government has an opportunity to provide more finance so that people who have been unemployed as a result of the Government's mismanagement of the economy can be assisted. We find it quite strange that the Government has not recognised what it has done to local government. It must recognise the fact that virtually all municipal councils, shire councils and semi-government authorities are facing serious financial difficulties arising from the credit squeeze which this Government inflicted upon them. Of course many councils have been forced to reduce their staffs. They will have to reduce their staffs because, we believe, the Government has been ungenerous in its recommendations in this Bill. 
-Would you like to hear them? 
-Well, there are several councils. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the disruption in the Central Australia Railway traffic due to a strike of Commonwealth Railway employees at Marree in South Australia. Can the Minister inform the Senate of events leading up to this strike? Is it a fact that the main causes of concern among the workers there are poor housing and working conditions and unsatisfactory medical services? What proposals have been put forward by the Commissioner for Commonwealth Railways to overcome the problems? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Rehabilitation Centre at Townsville, Queensland. 
I would like to support briefly  Senator Baume  's amendment. It seems to me that it is an ideal compromise which provides an opportunity for one partner, who agrees that there is some chance of repairing the marriage, to be given what I believe to be a more adequate period- 2 years- to do that. It provides also the opportunity for those people who both agree that their marriage should be dissolved to effect dissolution in a relatively short time. I commend  Senator Baume  for offering this alternative which I believe is an ideal compromise. I support him. 
J direct my question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Labor and Immigration. Is the Minister aware that a Commonwealth arbitration inspector, a former endorsed Australian Labor Party candidate for the South Australian Legislative Council, attended a meeting of members of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association held in the Adelaide Town Hall after the rejection of an ACOA pay claim this year? Is he also aware that at that meeting this Commonwealth arbitration inspector advocated that strike action be taken and suggested that workers in transport and communications be urged to go on strike and that a general fund be set up by the ACOA members to finance strikers who were called out? Can the Minister say whether this action is compatible with the officer's position as a Commonwealth arbitration inspector? 
-I want to say a word or two on this inflationary measure that we are discussing in the Senate tonight which will impose further costs on the airline operators of Australia. I am one who does not consider that providing air services in Australia needs to be regarded as something unusual and that the airline operators should not expect to make a profit. It seems to me that the Government has always regarded profit-making as something which is sinful. I do not. I think it is something which ought to be regarded as an essential part of our economy. Firms ought to be able to make a profit so that they can provide jobs for people in Australia. This is one of the reasons, of course, why the Labor Party has got into such a horrible mess. The Government does not have any commonsense in relation to economic management. 
I should like to put in a plug for the third level airline operators who seem to me to be disregarded by the Labor Government whichever way they turn- as the Government disregards most small people. The third level airline operators are providing a valuable service to the Australian community, particularly in outlying areas. This sort of penalty that we are inflicting upon those people tonight is going to cause them some hardship. I believe it could result in a diminution of the services that they are providing to the people in the outback of our country. I refer in South Australia to Port Augusta Air Services which operates in South Australia but the head office of which is in Melbourne. It provides a service to people who live in Port Augusta, Port Pirie, Leigh Creek, Oodnadatta and Kangaroo 
Island as well as other centres. Another airline company in South Australia, Opal Air Pty Ltd, flies to Coober Pedy and Andamooka and Aboriginal settlements, as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  will be aware, at Ernabella and other parts of northern South Australia. We have another third level airline in South Australia which provides a service to the Eyre Peninsula. Central Australian Airways Pty Ltd flies to towns such as Wudinna, Streaky Bay and other towns on the Eyre Peninsula. Connair in the Northern Territory provides a very valuable community service. This Party that we have in Government at the moment professes to be the supporter of the little man. I believe that this has been shown to be demonstrably wrong since it has been in Government because whatever the Government has done since it has been in office has, in fact, hurt the small man. I would like to read just a little extract from a publication called Aircraft', the official organ of various aero clubs and aeronautical engineering societies in Australia. The headline of one article reads: Budget Aviation Cost-Lifts Hit Hardest on GA Battlers'. The article states: 
Labor's professed concern for the 'little man' does not apparently extend to the 'battlers' in the business community, upon whom a sizeable proportion of the work force depends for wages. As economists have warned, many of these small businesses are already waging a losing battle against inflation. Among them can be counted many of the General Aviation fraternity, and for some of these the Budget presented last month by Treasurer Crean could well be the final straw. 
I do not know that Treasurer Crean did present the Budget but I believe that  Dr Cairns  decimated it. I feel very sorry for Frank Crean who tried hard and laboured under tremendous odds to do his best, in the Budget and it was absolutely wrecked by the stupidity of the Labor Party. The article continued: 
From already seriously-stretched resources, this section of the industry must find an additional estimated $3.9m in Air Navigation Charges. 
To get the full impact of that on a struggling industry we must await whatever spelling out on cost contributions is disclosed in the 1973-74 Transport Department Report, for costs were also increased sharply last year. But consider it against this fact . . . The Civil Aviation Report, 1972-73, quoted total ANC paid by 'private, aerial work and charter' operators that year as $1,014,843!  Mr Crean  introduced the latest impost in his Budget speech with a reference to the expected IS per cent increase in Air Nav. Charges ('the maximum permissible under the Airlines Agreement negotiated with the two major domestic airlines last October') and went on: 'Charges to general aviation will be increased by an additional 50 per cent . . . ' 
That sounds bad enough- and it apparently did to  Mr Crean  also. In the papers attached to his printed speech it is put this way . . . 'Charges to general aviation will be increased by an additional 50 per cent over and above the basic 15 per cent increase.' It means the present rate (substantially increased last year), plus IS per cent- and then another 50 per cent! If that doesn't classify as a savage- indeed, a merciless- increase against that section of the industry least able to bear it, or pass it on, what does? 
This is the sort of attitude that this Government has. I am particularly concerned that the penalty is going to be paid very heavily by the third airline operators who are providing an invaluable service to people living in the outback parts of this country and who are at present finding it very difficult to maintain their services. I am afraid that this Bill will mean that their attempts to continue this service profitably without reducing services to these remote areas will be jeopardised. I support the amendment that has been moved by  Senator Sim  tonight in the following terms: 
At end of motion, add: but the Senate is of the opinion that, in view of the effect on the inflationary spiral, the Government should state in some detail the proposed increase in fees and charges covering a wide variety of other services provided to the aviation industry. '.  lt is only fair to the people I have been referring to that that should happen. 
Quite right. It is only in that way that these people will be able to budget and plan ahead to ensure that they are able to provide a continuing and invaluable service to the outback part of this country. 
1 would be happy to incorporate the whole of it. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Georges)- Senator Milliner,  are you asking that this article be tabled? 
-I table the article. 
-I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration to a recent Press report which stated that privileged people are applying for benefits under the National Employment and Training scheme to the detriment of more needy people. Is the Minister aware that this is causing long delays in meeting the requirements of people properly seeking retraining and therefore considerably adding to administrative costs? Has the Government made any policy changes in respect to the NEAT scheme since its inception? What policy guidelines have been given to Department of Labor and Immigration employees to assist them in understanding the Government's scheme? If the Minister has not given clear written directions to his departmental officers, will he do so as a matter of urgency to avoid continuation of the confusion that seems to exist in the administration of this scheme, and to assist his departmental officers, many of whom appear to be in the dark and are obliged to make their own decisions on eligibility for benefits? 
I  present 3 petitions, identical in wording and from 1 88, 303 and 636 citizens of Australia respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a Capital Gains Tax applying as another Death Duty is unjust in its application and catastrophic in its effect. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Capital Gains Tax be not levied in addition to Death Duties. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and the first petition read. 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of an evasive answer given by the Premier of South Australia in response to a question from the Leader of the Opposition.  Dr Eastick,  in the State Assembly last week concerning the availability of Australian Grants Commission funds for South Australia? Is he aware also that on the same day the Chief Secretary,  Mr Kneebone,  told the Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council that about $5m is available in an emergency situation to the State from the Grants Commission? In view of the confusion that exists in South Australia as a result of these answers, can the Minister inform the Senate of the current position relating to the availability of Australian Grants Commission funds to South Australia? 
Has the State Government made any application for an emergency grant? 
-I wish to use standing order 408 to claim that I have been misrepresented. I have not spoken before in this debate. I ask the Senate 's indulgence to make a personal explanation. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I make this personal explanation as a result of an interjection I made after being provoked by the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  who alleged that the Opposition used the time when the Senate was being broadcast to make political capital. I merely suggested to the Minister that he has a short memory. This tactic was used in the 23 years prior to this Government's coming to office. In answer to my interjection the Minister referred to a question that I had asked in the Senate last week relating to an arbitration officer who attended an ACOA meeting in Adelaide not long ago and suggested strike action. Certainly he accused me of being dishonest, I think. I forget the term that he used, but if I am wrong in that - 
Yes. I was aware of the fact that this person was a member of the union, and a question was raised in the minds of other trade unionists at that meeting concerning the ethics of an arbitration officer suggesting strike action. It seemed to me to be incompatible with that position. It seemed to those union members to be incompatible with his position in the department. I meant no disrespect at all. I remind the Minister that the duties of an arbitration inspector are, among other things, to carry out inspections, inquiries and interviews and to ensure the provisions ofthe Conciliation and Arbitration Act- are you shaking your head,  Senator Bishop? 
I am merely responding to what you did. I asked you why you did not respond to my question this morning. You chose to use this medium - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator, I  acknowledge your point of order, that you can see no relevance in what  Senator Jessop  is saying, but  Senator Jessop  has leave. I call him. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  I am referring to what the Minister has said, and I am doing this by way of a personal explanation. I will be very brief. I suggest that with respect to what the Minister has said, the duties of" this arbitration officer are to carry out inspections, inquiries and interviews and to ensure that the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and Commonwealth awards are being observed. My question was whether this action on the part of this arbitration officer was ethical. I believe that it was not, and so do the other members of the trade union movement who were present at that meeting. 
My question, addressed to the Postmaster-General, is supplementary to that asked earlier by  Senator Durack  concerning the current postal dispute. I was encouraged to hear that the Minister is going to consult with  Mr Hawke.  I hope that the move meets with some success. In view of the statement by  Mr Slater,  secretary of the Australian Postal Workers Union, that he intends continuing guerrilla tactics to achieve the aims of his union, will the Minister assure the Senate that he will strongly uphold the arbitration system with respect to this current postal dispute? 
When did the AttorneyGeneral appoint Miss Morosi as a marriage celebrant? As I understand it, she has performed a number of ceremonies at a fee of between $15 and $30 since she has acted in this capacity. Will the Minister provide specific details concerning the number of marriages celebrated and the total amount of fees paid to her since she has officiated at such ceremonies? 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill which seeks to provide $66,110,000 to the States for public transport projects. It is clearly in line with the Liberal-Country Party policy to provide a continuing program to enable the upgrading of urban transport in Australia. However, a great deal more is required to be done if much needed train replacement programs are to be carried out by the States and other projects for public transport are to be achieved. Ways must be devised to persuade private motorists to use public transport rather than their private vehicles, particularly in the central business districts of our capital cities. The problems of urban transportation are likely to assume increasing importance over the coming decades as many Australians are attracted towards cities. Most projections envisage further increases in motor vehicle ownership in Australia. For instance, it is estimated that by 1983 there will be 1.5 million private cars in Sydney while in Brisbane the number is predicted to rise from 226,000 in 1 968 to 658,000 in the year 2000. This is rather staggering. 
In Sydney air pollution is a problem already. It is one of the worst cities in the world in this respect and by the year 2000 predictably it will be much worse. In order to discourage the continued intrusion of the private car into business centres more comfortable and more frequent buses, trains or trams must be provided and cheaper fares should be the aim of governments. In the 1973 Cities Commission's report it was estimated that by the year 200 1 Sydney will have a population in excess of 5 million, Melbourne's population will be greater than 4.4 million, and Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Hobart will have similar increases. If urban residents maintain the present trend in mobility it seems to me appropriate that relevant State governments should adopt the English and American idea of a single authority answerable to the State with responsibility for both town planning and transport but working in close and continued co-operation with local government. 
In the interests of time I will reduce my remarks to a minimum but I do wish to point to the necessity to upgrade the road systems in our urban areas so that we can provide a more efficient and effective public transport system for our city areas. I believe that one method of improving public transport is to provide exclusive bus or rapid transit lanes on all new freeways. In this way buses can provide a viable alternative to the car. When automated systems are subsequently introduced into Australia bus lanes on busier freeways could be changed to guideways for rapid transit systems, especially on an unending freeway. 
If all public transport systems were operated under a single authority, it could be arranged that a single ticket, for example, would provide transit on several forms of public transport, especially for inter-suburban movement. I am rather interested in this proposition of rapid transit systems and in my view in future bus services could be replaced by this form of transportation to advantage. At present freeeways cost about $4.5m a mile in the inner city area; about $2. 4m about 3 to 5 miles out; and $2m a mile further out. I believe- this is borne out by checks that I have made- that the inclusion of an additional $ 1 m a mile for public rapid transit systems in the construction stage would thus not be catastrophic while it would provide a public transport system which can be shown to be profitable. It would occur to me that the Government may consider bringing consultants to Australia from Germany. I know that in Freiburg in Germany there is an interesting development called DEMAG, which is an above ground level rapid transit system. It occurs to me that the Government ought to be looking towards gaining the knowledge of people who are well advanced in these systems. I think the Federal Governmment should consult the States to see whether there is a possibility of introducing a pilot scheme or schemes to experiment in this particular area of public transport. 
The States claim that one of the reasons that their railway equipment is so old is the low depreciation allowed. Although most of this equipment is still functional, its economic life has well passed. If the Australian Government settled the outstanding debts of the railways and authorised the raising of loan funds to reinvest in rolling stock, the rate of amortisation could be adjusted to provide for replacement as technology improves, about every ten to fifteen years, rather than operating the equipment past its engineered life. Were it not for the restriction of time, I could elaborate on other areas of interest at which the Liberal Party and Country Party are looking. 
Finally, I want to refer again to the Bill. I wish to indicate that the Opposition welcomes the measure. We are concerned about the problems of the States because the provisions in this Bill do not come up to the amount required by the States. I believe, for example, that Victoria sought $33.87m for projects to be undertaken in 1974-75. Under this Bill, Victoria will receive only $2 1.74m, a shortfall of about $ 12m. I want to refer briefly to one or two of the projects that are contemplated in South Australia. The Bill provides for rolling-stock for electrifying the Christie Downs railway. There are Municipal Tramways Trust projects involving the acquisition of 24 buses for replacement and extension of the service; acquisition of 3 bus prototypes; acquisition of 4 buses previously ordered by a private operator; and there are other capital items which are included for the benefit of South Australia. The other States will benefit in similar ways as a result of this Bill. I ask the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the Government to consider what I have mentioned about looking ahead to the possible time when we will be confronted with the introduction of these rapid personal transit systems. Perhaps the Minister might give consideration to inviting consultants from overseas to help him. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry,is the Minister aware that, as a result of representations made to me by  Mr Heini  Becker, the State member for Hanson in South Australia, I sent a telegram to the Minister's predecessor on 3 February concerning the use of Department of Supply vehicles in the transport of freight to Darwin from Adelaide. I drew his attention to the plight of private road hauliers in South Australia who are suffering grave economic hardship as a result of this Government intrusion. As I have received no reply from the former Minister to my urgent request for his comment, will the present Minister take speedy action to ensure that future movement of freight to Darwin is contracted to the private operators who have rendered such good service to the people of the Northern Territory in the past, in order to alleviate their present serious economic position? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory aware that 5300 articles of new civilian clothing were available in Darwin immediately after the cyclone and that these articles were clearly marked with sizes? Has he been informed that these articles of clothing, which were surplus to the requirements of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and subsequently handed to the Department of the Northern Territory, were transported to Adelaide? Is it a fact that these articles of clothing were auctioned by the Department of Manufacturing Industry at Pennington in South Australia this morning? As many 
Darwin residents had their clothes torn off them during the cyclone and had to  resort to wearing  sheets for several days, I ask the Minister why this clothing was not offered to Darwin citizens immediately following the cyclone. Secondly, what will happen to the revenue collected from the sale of these articles? Will the Government put it into the Darwin disaster fund? 
At first sight, when the Government's proposition was brought into this chamber I was disposed to support it in the absence, of course, of any time to consider it or to offer some alternative suggestion. However, contrary to what  Senator Hall  has suggested, that is, that we in our Party room watered down the motion, I suggest that we have distilled it and brought out the substance of the concern of this chamber. In the first part of our amendment we suggest quite properly that the right to replace a senator in the Senate rests firmly with the State Houses of Parliament. In the second part of our amendment we commend to the Parliament of Australia the traditional convention of this Senate by endorsing the principle of bringing into this chamber someone from the same Party as that of the senator who is to be replaced. 1 get somewhat weary when I listen to  Senator Hall.  He struts into this Senate chamber repeatedly and chooses to snipe at all sections of it- the Australian Labor Party, the Australian Country Party and the Liberal Party of Australiaand he does this, in my view, with the object in mind of obtaining cheap publicity but offering nothing of constructive substance for our consideration. I also become concerned when he suggests that people on this side of the chamber have no principle. I was rather concerned and annoyed to hear him this morning on the program 'AM' say things about  Senator Withers  which I believe are completely baseless. Our Leader's speech yesterday was exemplary and got right to the kernel of the nut. In my view  Senator Hall  has already abrogated the conventions of this Senate and the rights of the States by supporting the territorial senators Bill. This was done without consultation with the States of Australia and, because of that, it ignored the Constitution completely. He also has supported the concept of replacement of territorial senators by by-election. That again is an absolute disruption ofthe conventions of this place. 
Therefore, I suggest that  Senator Hall  should think a little more clearly and do a little more homework with respect to his responsibilities as a State representative. I believe that my conviction is the same as that held by his supporters, that is, that we are anxious for his co-operation in ousting the present socialist Government from office. I am quite certain that many of his supporters would share that view. I suggest that so far his tactics have been counter-productive and that the best way to alleviate this situation is for him to join us in a united attack so that we can kick this Labor Government out of offiice and give some encouragement to Australian industry and to our supporters who are spread in large numbers throughout this country. 
In directing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport I refer to a recent speech which I understand was made by the head of the Department of Transport in which he said that plans have been made to purchase 2 electric cars from an American company at a cost of $15,000. Can the Minister provide to the Senate more details of this proposal and of the purpose for which the cars have been or will be purchased? Is the Minister aware that an electric car has been constructed by scientists at the Flinders University in South Australia, that it is capable of a speeed of 38 miles an hour and that it has a range of 50 or 60 miles? Is he aware also that the development of this vehicle has been hampered by lack of funds? Can the Minister say why the Government has opted to purchase such vehicles from foreign sources rather than provide adequate finance to enable the development of an Australian electric car by local enterprise? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware that an inspection was carried out in the latter part of last year by the Bureau of Transport Economics of the wharf facilities at Port Pirie with the object of recommending what is required to upgrade these facilities? Can the Minister say whether a report has been received? If a report has not yet come to hand, will he call for it to be presented as a matter of urgency so that work can proceed on this project which has already suffered severe and costly delays? 
I should also like to express my pleasure at the Minister's recognition of the need to look more closely at this question of compensation.  Senator Durack  mentioned earlier that 40 building contracts in Darwin will be affected. 
I beg your pardon; $40m, yes; but because of that a lot of building material will need to be transported, and I think of all the road hauliers who are suffering as a result of the disaster. 
I just want to draw that to your attention at this stage. I hope that the Government will remember this when it expands its compensation arrangements for that area. A lot of people will be suffering as a result of the disaster and I ask the Government to bear that in mind. 
I draw attention to this clause because quite often when we read such a clause it is perhaps misinterpreted. I read clause 54 to the Committee: 
The Governor-General may, during the prescribed period, by order, declare that sub-section 18 (8) of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974 is not to apply to a specified work in the Darwin Area. 
This Bill gives quite extraordinary powers to the Darwin Reconstruction Commission in the reconstruction of the Darwin area. Quite properly, the Commission should have extraordinary powers. But I suggest that the GovernorGeneral, through the Government, should not interpret this 'may' to mean 'will'. I can see some advantage in the Public Works Committee examining certain projects that may be associated with the reconstruction of Darwin. For example, the gaol at Darwin has been demolished. This has been the subject of public controversy in that area for a number of years. The people want a new gaol to be built. I think that is a major undertaking which ought to come under the scrutiny of the Public Works Committee. 
Ironically enough, just prior to the disaster at Darwin, the Public Works Committee had referred to it 3 important projects. They were a high school, a laboratory complex and a housing subdivision. That, of course, was rendered unnecessary. But I would like to think that even in relation to a housing subdivision the Public Works Committee which is, in effect, the mediator between the bureaucracy or the Government and the public interest ought to be able to have a look at the propositions as put forward by this Commission with respect to the type of housing or the design of houses that are contemplated for building in that area. I can see tremendous merit in giving the opportunity to the public to come before the Committee to give their views as to the design of the homes and their structural capacity to resist future cyclones. There could be over the next 5 years major works that properly should be brought before the notice of the Public Works Committee. So I ask the Minister to observe that point and not to interpret 'may' as meaning will'. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 55 to 60- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 61. 
The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, prescribing all matters that are required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed or are necessary or convenient to be prescribed for the carrying out or giving effect to this Act, or facilitating the performance by the Commission of its functions, and in particular- 
for the procedure and other matters related to the formulation of planning and development schemes in connexion with development and construction in the Darwin Area and for securing the observance of such schemes: 
for suspending or modifying, or adapting for the purposes of this Act, the operation of a law of the Territory dealing with a matter to which the functions or powers of the Commission relate; 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory aware that the road from Alice Springs to Tennant Creek has been cut by floods for the last 2 days? Has he been informed that Bonnen Creek is running 6 feet over the road and that the Taylor River is at the 10-foot level? Is he aware also that according to local information Newcastle Waters will be flooding in about 4 days and could well be down again in about a month? Bearing in mind that the road from Queensland also is completely cut by floods and bearing in mind the severe financial problems suffered by road hauliers, not only as a result of the recent cyclone but also as a result of flooding last year, will the Minister take urgent action to provide air lifts out of Alice Springs or Tennant Creek to alleviate the serious transport problems being faced by these operators? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media and I refer to the recent steep increase in the price of Hansard which has to be borne by its subscribers. I am not sure whether the price has already been increased or whether it is foreshadowed. Is the Minister aware that many pensioners and students purchase Hansard in order to become fully informed on parliamentary debates as it is quite impossible for them to gain sufficient knowledge of important issues through normal media channels? In view of the financial hardship which the increased cost of Hansard will cause to such people in the community, will the Minister provide copies of Hansard to students and pensioners at the old price? 
I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr President. 
My attitude to this Bill has not changed. I support the speakers on the Opposition side in rejecting it as another attempt by the socialist Government of Australia to inflict upon the people a health scheme which is based largely on systems that exist overseas, systems that have been proved to be second rate. 
I have asked the people overseas. People from the United Kingdom who live in Adelaide are absolutely appalled at the stupidity of the Government in introducing such a scheme to Australia. This view is also shared by many doctors from the United Kingdom who have escaped the socialism of the United Kingdom. I oppose the nationalised scheme for several very good reasons, not the least being the economics of the problem. I find it incredible that a government which is faced by a deficit of about $3,600m by the end of this financial year is to rob the people of Australia to pay for a health scheme that will cost, in my opinion, no less than $700m-odd more than the present scheme is costing Australia today. I object to the scheme on other grounds. I happen to like the freedom of choice as to who will operate on me in a hospital. I happen to value the privilege of the system, one that has existed and operated successfully in Australia for so long, of being able to nominate the physician I would like to treat me when I am in hospital. Although it is proposed under this Bill that in the initial stages, I understand, there will be freedom of choice in respect to a person 's general practitioner - 
-This is the thin end of the wedge so far as I am concerned.  Senator Grimes  is right when he says that it is the thin end of the wedge. I agree with him that this is the thin end of the wedge for the zoning of doctors in Australia and forcing people to go to a doctor whom they do not necessarily wish to see. I listened to  Dr Sheil  speaking about the decline in the number of general practitioners in Australia and he was correct. It is time governments of Australia came to grips with this problem. I believe it is in the interests of the people of Australia for the government, the Australian Medical Association and the medical faculties in our institutions to introduce a provision whereby medical graduates ought to do at least 12 months in general practice before proceeding to a speciality. That has been an idea of mine for a long time and I stand by it although I know that there are some specialists who would disagree. I believe such a requirement would help immensely in overcoming the deficiency in the number of general practitioners in Australia. 
I believe also that this Bill spells the end of the pensioner medical service. I think the Government ought to pay regard to the point that in order to provide pensioner services it will have to depend on the goodwill of the medical profession in Australia. I have no doubt that the profession's goodwill would prevail. In my view it is an act of irresponsibility on the part of the Government that it intends to destroy this scheme. I recognise, as do the Liberal Party and the Country Party, that the existing scheme has to be upgraded and improved. In the election campaign last year we foreshadowed that we have it in mind to do this. We have worked a lot more since then and have other suggestions that will be unfolded at the appropriate time. 
I am afraid this Government is pursuing a course which, if successful- I certainly will do my part to see that it is not successful- will provide Australia with a second rate medical service, a system that would overcrowd hospitals, would provide problems for the private hospitals and would force hospitals to put patients in public wards whereas at the moment, in South Australia anyway, the majority of patients wish to be accommodated in intermediate and private wards. This would create tremendous problems with respect to surgery, for example. I recently heard a doctor in Adelaide suggest that if a person wanted an ingrown toe nail removed it probably would never get done under the scheme proposed by our socialist friends in the Government. If a person wanted a more serious but not acute major operation he would have to wait years. 1 suggest that because of the overloading of the hospital facilities and the overloading of the work of the doctors even acute cases may be threatened with non-treatment. In my view this is against the interests of the health of the Australian community. I reiterate that a lot has been said on this measure in the last couple of years and I have nothing to add but to say that I oppose it. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
-I was very concerned when this Bill was first drafted by the Government and was completely amazed that there was no consultation with the industries concerned, apart from one. I understand that one was consulted by the previous Minister for Manufacturing Industry,  Mr Enderby.  As a result of what was proposed I took action on behalf of the firm of Kelvinator Australia Ltd in South Australia to see that some equity was brought into the Bill. I am glad to say that, as a result of strong representations by my colleague  Senator Drake-Brockman  and others, the Government recognised the need to produce the amendment that we are discussing here today. 
I was afraid that the original intent of the Government in presenting the Bill in its original form would create unemployment in South Australia, which is suffering very badly from the administration of this Government. I agree with  Senator Hall  that it is in fact a non-growth State. I believe that this is due largely to the fact that South Australia is under a Labor Government. Of course the situation has been compounded in the last couple of years because we have had a Federal Labor Government as well. I express my gratitude that the former Attorney-General, now  Mr Justice  Murphy, and the Government recognised the problems that would have been created by this Bill. The jobs of 300 people in South Australia could have been jeopardised and something like 500 jobs in New South Wales could have been brought under the cloud of possible retrenchment as well. I think that enough has been said from this side of the House with respect to the matter. I am happy to support the amendment that has been proposed. I believe it will remove the concern from the minds of those employees in South Australia who were threatened by the original Bill that was presented to this House. 
I listened with interest to  Senator McLaren  talking about back pedalling and accusing the Opposition in this regard. I found that quite incredible because since the Labor Party has been in Government in this country it has done nothing but back pedal. I think the recent Terrigal conference illustrated this point quite clearly. At that conference many of the measures suggested over a period of 18 months or so by the Liberal and Country Parties were adopted by the Labor 
Party. We are showing some flexibility in our approach to this Australian Housing Corporation Bill. As far as I am concerned, the Bill is absolutely horrifying because it will provide the basis for the Government to expand centralised power in the area of housing. The Bill will duplicate housing trusts and housing commissions in the States and therefore, in my view, it represents an unnecessary and extravagant waste of public funds. It would be more acceptable to me if additional finance were provided for the housing trusts and housing commissions in the States to enable them to expand activities in the public sector, if that is the desire of this Government. 
I am opposed to the centralisation of power and the socialist objectives in this Bill which will tend to stifle the private sector by restricting the provision of land, the construction of houses and, indeed, inhibit the private purchase of homes. It must be remembered that currently the private sector is responsible for no less than 92 per cent of the demand and the public sector is responsible for 8 per cent of the demand. 
If this Bill truly encouraged building in all fields I would give it my wholehearted support, because anything that can be done to encourage the building industry in Australia would make a tremendous contribution to employment at a time when this country is faced with massive unemployment. As this industry is labour intensive, it would make a great contribution. The building industry is a massive user of materials. As such, when it is operating at a high level it stimulates other industries as well. We believe that the Government would be well advised to encourage home ownership, but the Labor Party has failed miserably in this field. It seems intent upon relegating Australians to being a race of flatdwellers and occupiers of rental homes. In spite of  Senator McLaren's  statement, home building in Australia is at a very low level. Finance has been hard to get, and interest rates have never been higher. Statisticians suggest that this year 180 000 homes should be built in Australia, but we will be lucky to get 105 000 homes built. Next year the position will be compounded; the discrepancy will be even worse. 
I believe that the building industry has a right to be concerned about this measure. In the absence of stated objectives for the Corporation, the concern of the industry must be considered in the context of other government initiatives, more particularly its actual performance in other critical areas of economic or policy management. I wish to mention a few. Firstly, the stated platform of the Australian Labor Party seeks, among other things, expressly the nationalisation of the housing industry. This Bill is a massive step in that direction. Secondly, the Government, although reputedly a low interest rate government, has presided over the highest interest rates that have obtained for housing in the history of this nation. Thirdly, the Government's intention to achieve a moderate abatement of demand in the private sector of housing has reduced the levels of activity below a level considered desirable for the maintenance of a viable and economic industry. Fourthly, the Prices Justification Tribunal, in its initial operation, has had the effect, among other things, of retarding investment in capital works, plant or equipment, to the detriment of future capacity and employment. Fifthly, the Trade Practices Commission has created a whole new body of corporate law in which traditional practices which have been accepted by public works authorities over many years appear to be placed in jeopardy. The Department of Urban and Regional Development has publicly sponsored the cause of discouraging home ownership as one method of inducing a different approach to land usage. That Department has mounted attacks against land development operations to the extent that there will be a critical short-fall of serviced land towards the end of this year. Also, it has been able to place its expenditure program beyond the control of the Treasury. 
I suggest that the proposed legislation goes much further than consolidating the present powers of the Commonwealth in that it assumes authority for areas of responsibility which previously were held to be the preserves of the States. It applies incidental powers under the Commonwealth Constitution in a comprehensive and exclusive manner. By complementary legislation amending the Financial Corporations Act or the savings bank regulations, it can institute controls in regard to financial institutions which serve the industry. It enlarges its role in housing from a limited area to total urban or regional development. It can be used directly to restructure the whole of the housing, commercial, industrial and civil engineering sectors of the industry. Indirectly, and together with the proposed land commissions it can erase effectively private enterprise and initiative in the industry. It assumes that technical, professional and managerial competence will be available for all these tasks when every arm of the Government, including those associated with land assembly and financial expertise in respect of housing, is directed against such competence. It affects urban land administration, housing construction and management. All of these are in short supply and under stress. The whole concept appears to be an expensive and expansive administrative exercise in an area in which both public and private initiative and competence have already been proven. It must be considered a major policy instrument to implement the restructuring of a society in which equal rights to housing, free choice or decisions are seriously endangered. I think that sums up pretty well the feeling of the building industry in Australia. 

 Senator Carrick quite properly said that the abolition of the home savings grant scheme was a retrograde action taken by this Government. That scheme was introduced by the LiberalCountry Party Government to provide some incentive for young married people to budget for home building. The young people of Australia would have been far better served if the present Government had pursued that course of action and provided further incentives in that direction. On the return of a future Liberal-Country Party government I would want to see that home savings program reintroduced. I believe that  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Martin  have represented our case very adequately. Although I am opposed in principle to this Bill, in the interests of not being considered obstructionist I will support the Opposition's proposed amendments which attempt to tidy up the Bill to a certain extent. To amend it fully and to my complete satisfaction would mean the total emasculation of this Bill. I look forward to the return of ' a Liberal-Country Party government. I am one who would be urging a radical re-examination of this Corporation. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that the Government of West Germany introduced a regulation earlier this year increasing the permissible limit governing mercury content in fish to one part per million? Is the Minister also aware of the fact that per capita the people in Germany consume far more sea-food than do Australians? In view of that and also in view of the recent scientific and medical findings which cast doubt on the validity of the 1971 recommendations of the National Health and Medical Research Council to limit the allowable mercury content in fish to 0.5 parts per million, will the Minister ask his colleague to recommit this matter to that Council so that it can reassess its recommendations in the light of more recent information on this subject? Also will the Minister be able to table for the information of the Senate the reasons behind the decision made in 1971 by that Council? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Defence inform me why the naval vessel HMAS 'Banks', which sailed from Port Adelaide on 3 March ibr Sydney on exercises, was diverted at Portland in Victoria to King Island where she met another naval vessel? Is it a fact that HMAS 'Banks' and the other naval vessel were sent there to be a backdrop for the Minister for Defence at a garden fete and that the original naval exercise to Sydney by HMAS 'Banks' was abandoned as a result? 
The purpose of the Australian National Railways Bill 1975 is to amend the Commonwealth Railways Act. It is a significant piece of legislation. The change of the name from the Commonwealth Railways to the Australian National Railways which is implicit in this measure will cost the Australian taxpayers more than Sim just for the reprinting of stationery. I dare say that repainting the rolling stock and traffic signs throughout Australia will involve a similar expenditure. At the outset I would like to ask why it is proposed to change the name Commonwealth Railways to Australian National Railways. It seems to me that the use of the words 'Australian' and 'National' is a duplication of terminology and that it would have been sufficient to use the title Australian Railways or National Railways. Perhaps doing so would have even saved a little of the expenditure of taxpayers ' money. 
The Bill proposes a number of things. The main one is that it will enable the Australian Government to take over State railway systems in Australia. The South Australian Government has already decided to take advantage of this measure. That State will hand over the control of its non-metropolitan railway system to the central Government. I understand that the Tasmanian Government also is contemplating relinquishing control over its railways to the Canberra Administration. Only yesterday the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  presented to the Senate a paper outlining the principles governing the transfer of the South Australian non-metropolitan railway system to the Australian Government. It is a pity that the Government has not seen fit to provide an opportunity for a proper parliamentary debate on that paper which lays down guidelines for what is a completely new concept governing railway transport in Australia. Perhaps there is a way in which the Minister could give us an opportunity to do so. I believe honourable senators should be able to express views on the principles that have been laid down in this document. The Government must be grateful to the Opposition for its intention to give this Bill a speedy passage, otherwise I suggest the document presented yesterday would be invalid. I shall refer to that document to highlight 2 aspects about which I am concerned. Paragraph 5 on page 2 of the document reads: 
The Australian Government will agree to construct and operate a rail connection to the container terminal at Outer Harbour and to improve and where necessary replace the main line to Murray Bridge in order to ensure a high standard service to the growth centre at Monarto, subject to evaluation by the Bureau of Transport Economics showing these to be economically desirable. 
For a start, this is a metropolitan railway and does not seem to comply with the heading on the front of the document which refers to principles governing the transfer of non-metropolitan railway systems. Another aspect of this document gives me some concern. Paragraph 6 reads: 
If the Australian Government requires new passenger services, they will be subject to application to the relevant South Australian transport authority. The State will to the extent of which it is necessary confer power to operate the services referred to in this paragraph. 
This seems to me to endanger private enterprise to a degree and I should like the Minister's assurance that that is not the intention of the Government. I was interested to note- I think it is quite proper- that any proposals involving the closure of lines, reductions in effectively demanded services or reductions in levels of employment at railway workshops shall not be implemented without prior agreement of the State. I think that is a fair provision which quite properly ought to appear in that document. 
I refer now directly to the Bill and to the Minister's second reading speech. In this speech the Minister could not resist the temptation to cast aspersions at the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. I remind the Senate that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government recognised the need to provide a more satisfactory railway link between South Australia and the Northern Territory. The Minister suggests in his speech that the previous Government bogged down nationally important projects such as the Tarcoola- Alice Springs line and the Adelaide standard gauge connection. I think that the Minister appreciates only too well the difficulties experienced by the South Australian Government, the Federal Liberal- Country Party Government and the present Government on decisions which should have been taken earlier by the State Government with respect to these proposals. 
Referring specifically to the Tarcoola-Alice Springs line I recall quite vividly the work that was done by the Liberal- Country Party Transport Committee in 1968. I was  Chairman  at the time when this project was considered by that Parliamentary Committee.  Mr Calder,  the honourable member for the Northern Territory, was naturally a very interested member of the Committee and was its Secretary at the time. The Committee worked on a submission trying to persuade the Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  and the Minister for Shipping and Transport,  Mr Sinclair,  that the Tarcoola-Alice Springs line was given a position of prominence in the works program of the then Government. The submission happened to be quite successful. It not only attracted the unanimous support of the Transport Committee but also attracted the support of the then Government National Development Committee. That Committee was chaired by  Mr Ray  Whittorn, the former member for Balaclava. I would like to pay a tribute to all the members of those committees- thirty in all who were responsible for impressing upon the Liberal-Country Party Government the need to press on with the Tarcoola-Alice Springs connection. It is well to remind the Senate that as a result money was allocated so that a proper survey could be taken of the route suggested for this particular railway line. I cannot be accurate but I think that survey took between two and three years to complete. 
In the Budget of 1972 the construction of the line was approved at an estimated cost of $54m. An amount of $3. 2m was allocated for the construction to commence. Of course, construction did not commence. As a result of 2 years delay by the Labor Administration the cost of the line will now approximate $154m. I suggest that if the present Government had carried on expeditiously with the work started by the previous Government, the line would be well on the way to being completed. I would suggest that at this time 1 50 miles of standardised railway line could have been completed reaching up towards the Northern Territory. 
This weekend there will be a ceremony to commemorate the construction of this line. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  will be the guest of honour. He will turn the first sod to commemorate this particular occasion. No doubt this ceremony will be carried out with a fanfare to trumpets and the Labor Party will claim complete responsibility for this project. I doubt very much whether the Prime Minister will admit to the tremendous escalation of the cost of this project caused by the delay of his Government in commencing the work. Regrettably due to an important commitment elsewhere I cannot be present at that function. However,  Mr Calder  from the Northern Territory and some of his parliamentary colleagues from that area will be attending the ceremony and I am quite sure they will represent the interests of the Opposition on that occasion. 
I would like to pay a tribute to the men of the Commonwealth Raiways who will be largely responsible for that project. I refer to men I know very well because I lived in the town of Port Augusta with them for a number of years. I refer to men like John Walker, who is the Chief Civil Engineer, and Jim Green, George Ryan and others who are too numerous to mention. In fact, I think a tribute ought to be paid to the Commonwealth Railways from the Commissioner down to the fettlers involved in the running of this important railway for the tremendous work they have done over the years in this important transportation area. I am concerned, as many of us are, about the State railway systems and the tremendous losses they incur. I think a glance at the financial result of the operation of government railways in Australia proves that this aspect of our economy needs to be given much attention. I refer to a document that was given to me by the Parliamentary Library. I ask the Postmaster-General General  (Senator Bishop)  whether he will agree to my incorporating this document in Hansard. 
-I would like to refer briefly to one or two aspects of it. First, the net operating result in Victoria was a deficit of $44,397,000. In South Australia the deficit was $17,289,000. These are the latest statistics that I have. I am quoting the 1972-73 figure for South Australia. 
It is the net operating loss. 
I know that. For example, was the honourable senator referring to interest payments? 
-In South Australia in 1972-73 interest paid was $8,595,000. In New South Wales in 1971-72 the interest paid was $2 1,929,000. That is a large sum of money and I can understand the problems the State governments have in this regard. I read an article in the Australian' of 3 March in which it was stated that New South Wales loses $3.80 per passenger on its railway system in country areas. Yesterday or the day before I noticed that the New South Wales Government has decided to increase its charges by 20 per cent. This sort of thing is not good. Governments should be looking towards providing public transport at a very reduced cost. I know this is an important aspect of this Bill. I agree in principle with what the South Australian 
Government has done although I can see some dangers, which I will refer to later, inherent in the Bill. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  A few moments ago, the honourable senator referred to a document relating to financial results, but the Chair has not seen it. Does he seek leave to have that document incorporated in Hansard? 
Yes, sir. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objections leave is granted to incorporate the document, if it is suitable for incorporation. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="063232197504103_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. As the decision to allow Australian Government intervention in this area is one for the States concerned, I should be interested to know whether the Australian Government has any plan to give financial assistance to railways in States that may, for one reason or another, choose not to hand over control of their railway systems to the Commonwealth and may opt to maintain direct control of the systems operating within their boundaries. 
Referring again directly to the Bill, I notice that, in his second reading speech, the Minister said that it would take 5 years to complete the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway line, and that within 3 years a railhead would be established to enable road-rail movement of goods. I think it is appropriate at this time for me to ask the Minister whether the Government has any plans to extend this line to Darwin and, if it has, whether he can tell me whether there are any estimates of costs and whether an assessment has been made regarding the construction time of this project. I want to refer now to the establishment of the new Commission and to the fact that a full-time Chairman and General Manager will be appointed, as well as 6 part time Commissioners. They will take over the existing system wherein the Commissioner has almost complete control. 
I am interested in the fact that the Minister has decided to appoint a prominent trade unionist as one of the pan time Commissioners. I hope that this person will have an adequate knowledge of the problems facing Commonwealth and South Australian railway employees, and that he will be able to represent adequately their interests on this Commission. We must ensure that Commonwealth and State employees are given adequate opportunities for promotion, and that nobody is disadvantaged as a result of the amalgamation of the 2 systems. I should like more specific details- the Minister may be able to supply them- regarding the remuneration that is envisaged for the General Manager, the  Chairman  of the Commission and the part-time Commissioners, and information as to the number of sittings that the Minister expects will be required. 
Finally, 1 express my concern at the implications of proposed sections 31a and 31b. In the other place the Government accepted our amendment to proposed section 31b. In its original form it read: 
Without limiting the powers of the Commission to transport passengers and goods on the railways, the Commission may transport passengers and goods for reward by land, otherwise than on the railways . . . 
Then it set out details concerning the movement of such passengers and goods. We were successful in amending that proposed section. For the benefit of honourable senators who may not have noted our amendment, which was accepted in the other place, proposed section 3 IB now reads: 
Without limiting the powers of the Commission to transport passengers and goods on the railways, the Commission may (as incidental or supplementary to, or in association with, the transport of passengers or goods on the railways) transport passengers and goods for reward by land, otherwise than on the railways . . . 
Then it sets out the places between which passengers and goods may be transported. I think it is important that the Australian National Railways have the capacity to deal with emergency situations, such as the one that presently exists in the Northern Territory. I think that at present the depth of the water running over the road at Newcastle Waters is about 12 feet. 'I know that this is not a problem confronting the railways, but it illustrates my point. There could well be washaways of the railway in this area, as happened repeatedly over the years. At present a large number of people are marooned on the road between Newcastle Waters and, I think, Rose River. It is likely that that section of the road will be cut for 1 1 or 12 weeks. This is the information that I have. 
Among the vehicles marooned there is a refrigerated transport containing $250,000 worth of prawns destined for Adelaide. Honourable senators know how much we need prawns in Adelaide. I realise that the Government appreciates that this problem exists. Perhaps the Minister, in the course of his reply, could tell me what is being done to ensure that supplies are reaching Darwin, because I understand that the people of Darwin are out of perishable foods at the present time. It is essential that the Australian National Railways have the capacity to use road transport and, if necessary, aircraft in those emergencies, and I heartily commend that. I again ask the Minister to give an assurance that this Government will not intrude unduly into the province of private road transport operators in Australia who have done a tremendous job in servicing these areas for so many years. I would be grateful if the Minister would give a positive assurance that it is not the Government's intention by this Bill to nationalise road transport throughout Australia. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I refer to a visit to South Australia recently by the Minister, when he was accompanied by about 70 conservationists, to inspect the Halletts Cove area and, in particular, the geological amphitheatre that is unique in the world. I understand the Minister intends to appoint a commission to study the adequacy of the reserve in that area. If this is so, when will the commission be appointed? Will the Minister inform me of the terms of reference of the commission and whether submissions will be invited from interested people? Will the Minister ask his colleague to request that a report be presented as a matter of urgency? 
I address my question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I refer to the Minister's statement yesterday that State government insurance offices have a better record of efficiency than private enterprise companies. Is it a fact that since its inception the South Australian Government Insurance Office has run at a loss of approximately $4m. Does the Government plan to establish an Australian Government insurance office mean that the operations of existing State government offices will be duplicated, or is it the Minister's intention to make a takeover bid for existing State instrumentalities? 
-Is the Minister for Manufacturing Industry aware that Parsons Ltd of Whyalla recently lost a contract worth $ 1 .6m to a Scottish firm due to tariff cuts applied by the Government? Is the Minister aware that, according to a Press statement today by the manager of that company at Whyalla, the work force of 1 15 will be halved in 6 months unless finance can be assured to bridge the period before the next major contract is obtained? As an approach has already been made to the Department of Manufacturing Industry for assistance, can the Minister say what action is being taken by his Department to alleviate the problem? If he is not aware of this approach, will he make urgent inquiries about this matter? 
-I think it is a matter of regret that the original motion was ever presented to this Senate. I support exactly the sentiments expressed by  Senator Wright.  In fact I could not but notice on reading the transcript of evidence taken by the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament what the  Chairman  of the Committee had to say to one witness. He said: 
 At the outset I want to make certain announcements. First of all, the authority to publish your evidence will be determined subsequently. I would like all concerned to understand that that is the position. Secondly, I should make clear to you that the terms of reference of this Committee do not allow it to become involved in a discussion as to whether any member of this Committee or any member of the Parliament is in breach of the Australian Constitution. We are concerned with inquiring into the desirability of there being a register containing the declaration of the interest of members of Parliament, what classes of pecuniary interest or other benefit should be disclosed, whether the register should be controlled or maintained, what arrangements, if any, should be made for public access and what class of person, other than members of Parliament, should be included in the register. We are not authorised and we are not competent to consider whether there has been a breach of the Constitution. 
I realise that section 46 of the Constitution comes into this as well. It is my view that it would have been fairer had the Government appointed a judicial inquiry into this whole matter embracing the whole Parliament. 
I have known  Senator Webster  for 8 years and I hold him in extremely high regard. I have met his family and I regard them as my close personal friends. I have met his friends. Wherever I go in his company or among his friends the story 
I get is that  Senator Webster  is a man of extremely high integrity and one who would never contemplate using his position in the Parliament for personal advancement. I am personally distressed that he has been put through such a shocking experience over the last few weeks which has caused him and his family irreparable personal suffering. In my opinion  Senator Webster  has been made a scapegoat in this matter. He is the unwitting victim of a technical breach of the Constitution, probably not as bad as, and certainly no worse than, those of other members of the Parliament who may also be unwittingly in technical breach of the Constitution. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  brought this point out last week in answer to a question posed by  Mr Anthony  concerning the leasing of houses in Canberra. The Prime Minister in his answer said: 
I have heard suggestions from time to time that those members- I have been among them- who have occupied government flats in Canberra might be disqualified under the Constitution from holding their seats or being elected. 
There is a case from the Prime Minister's mouth where other members may unwittingly be involved. 
It seems to me appropriate that this Government should set up a judicial committee to examine sections 44 and 45 of the Constitution in the light of present day circumstances and conditions with the object of formulating amendments to these sections and render them more fitting for 1975 and thereafter. However, this Parliament intends to subject  Senator Webster  to the test of the present provisions of the Constitution which were conceived in the wild colonial days. It has singled him out to be a sacrificial guinea pig on the altar of Parliament or the High Court. 
I am demonstrating a point of view that I believe is shared by many in this chamber. Following a judicial inquiry other members may follow  Senator Webster  and it is conceivable that they could be dealt with under the provisions of an altered Constitution. This is patently unfair to  Senator Webster.  I hope that the High Court will see fit to delay consideration of this case- I am not a legal man and it may not be possible for this to happen, but I hope it isumi! the report of the judicial committee is presented to this Senate. I would urge the Government to establish this committee as soon as possible as a matter of extreme urgency and that a report be requested as quickly as possible. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. The Minister will recall, I hope, that on 30 October last year I asked when the Minister expected the Toose Committee report on repatriation to be presented. At that time the Minister indicated that he hoped to have it ready by 3 1 March. As this time has long since passed and as  Senator Wheeldon  must agree that  Mr Justice  Toose has had ample time to prepare the report, can the Minister now say when the report will be tabled? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Has the Government decided to remove the office of the Australian Trade Commissioner from South Africa? Does this mean that trade with South Africa will suffer as a result? Is the Minister aware of the importance of South Africa to South Australia with respect to exports of motor vehicles and spare parts and the consequent damage that this action will cause this important South Australian industry? 
The Senate is considering a Bill for an Act to establish a Road Safety and Standards Authority. I am sure we all support the purpose of this Bill which has been outlined in the second reading speech of the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop).  Anything that can be done to reduce the tragedy of deaths on Australian roads due to the mounting number of accidents must be actively supported not only by members of Parliament but also, I believe, by every Australian citizen. It seems that despite police warnings, road safety council campaigns, automobile association encouragement to take more care on the roads, this tragic story of death on the road is being told. Day after day more lives are being needlessly lost on Australian roads. Last year, as the Postmaster-General said in his second reading speech 3571 people lost their lives on the roads in Australia. The awful fact that this is the fourth major cause of deaths in Australia and the major cause of deaths of males under 25 years must give us all grave concern. 
-That is perhaps one of the recommendations that could arise as a result of the establishment of this Authority. 
Sentor Durack- Ride a push bike. 
Yes, that is another possibility. I have maintained for a long time that we should have attempted to establish in Australia national standards governing traffic signs, traffic laws and so on. The Liberal Party in its platform points out that transport safety concerns all levels of government, and it must be given high priority by the Federal Government in its own areas of responsibility and in those areas where cooperation with the States is desired. Uniformity of driving codes, axle loads and other performance codes must be an early objective. 
I think this Bill will give effect to that. It was with that in mind that the Liberal-Country Party Government set up a special committee under  Mr Justice  Meares with many eminent people on it including  Mr Pak-Poy  from Adelaide. The Committee presented a report to the LiberalCountry Party Government in October 1972. The Government of the day accepted the recommendation to set up a national office on road safety. I believe this Bill gives effect to that recommendation. I think that the Meares Committee deserves the congratulations of this Senate as it has outlined many ways in which we can reduce driving hazards on Australian roads. The Bill goes on to mention some of the objectives of the Authority among them being the elimination of noise pollution and air pollution, which also give us a lot of concern. 
I should like to refer to the importance of visual efficiency with respect to road safety. Clear, efficient vision is an important requirement for accident free driving. Importance of vision in safe, accident free driving has been recognised in Australia by some organisations in the past. Over recent years the Australian Government, through the Department of Transport and the Australian Road Research Board, has provided a total of $250,000 for contract research investigations at the School of Optometry in the University of Melbourne. I think honourable senators will appreciate that some of the matters that have been researched are matters of great importance, matters such as the design and performance of visual screening devices; optimal cromaticity and luminescence of coloured signal lights; the effects of distracting information on visual recognition, and the visibility of roadside furniture. The results of these studies have been distributed to interested bodies such as the Standards Association of Australia, the International Committee on Illumination, the National Association of State Road Authorities and the Australian Committee on Road Traffic Devices. These are all significant authorities having the objective of reducing road hazards. 
I referred to studies being carried out at the University of Melbourne by the School of Optometry. The School of Optometry within the University of Melbourne also acts as consultant to the New South Wales Department of Main Roads, the Country Roads Board and the Road Traffic and Safety Authority in Victoria. The School of Optometry within the University of New South Wales has recently conducted research into the visibility of police motor cycles, visual standards for drivers and the illumination of the Cahill Expressway. 
In 1963 the Australian Optometrical Association Committee on Visual Factors in Transportation recommended a desirable set of visual standards for drivers. Despite attempts to have these standards adopted by the various State licensing authorities, the visual standard required to obtain and then to retain a driving licence varies considerably from State to State. In New South Wales it is possible to obtain a permit to learn to drive at 16 years and 9 months. At that time it is necessary to submit oneself to a simple visual acuity test. The important thing is that no further supervised visual check is required until one reaches his eightieth year. In my view this seems to be quite extraordinary. Licenced drivers who hold blind pension entitlements have also been reported on the roads of Australia, and others who would qualify for the blind person's pension have also been reported driving. There remains a great deal of investigation to be conducted in areas such as vehicle and pedestrian visibility. For example, reflective number plates are in use in the Australian Capital Territory, Western Australia and Tasmania. Royal Australian Air Force vehicles and Army vehicles use them. In South Australia the use of reflective plates is voluntary. I understand that in Queensland P plates are of a reflective type. There is ample evidence that the use of these plates increases vehicle visibility at night. I wonder why these types of plates are not used in all States. The Authority we are now discussing could well consider the desirability of setting a standard of such plates throughout Australia. It could also examine the matter of visual standards for drivers before they are permitted to have a licence. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2. IS p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was referring to the importance of visual efficiency in relation to road safety and I advocated this particular Authority giving some attention to making an assessment of this matter with a view to formulating certain national standards that could be recommended to the States for adoption, because I believe that this is an important aspect of the matter dealt with by the Bill. 
Finally, I refer to the attitude of other organisations interested in this Bill. I have had communications with the Road Safety Council in South Australia and with the Royal Automobile Association of South Australia, and they support the Bill. The Council maintains that the Bill is a progressive move and will be a major step in the national co-ordination of road safety work, particularly in the area of research which is badly needed. For many years the Automobile Association of Australia has been pressing for leadership and greater involvement by the Commonwealth in road safety matters. The Association says that the Government should establish a department of accident prevention with its own Minister to provide a more vigorous and coordinated approach to research into road safety and road accidents and their causation. I believe that this is worthy of the Government's consideration in the future. 
Although in recent years there has been a more uniform approach to road safety at the national level through special advisory committees to the Australian Transport Advisory Council, the increase in accidents seems to indicate that much more could be done in this area. There is a need for greater Commonwealth involvement in road safety and I believe that we ought to encourage all the aspects to which I have referred in the individual State areas. 
I know that the Minister has suggested an amendment to clause 15 (1). I believe that he has paid some regard to an Opposition  speaker  in another place, the honourable member for Parramatta,  Mr Philip  Ruddock. I commend the honourable member for suggesting that the clause ought to be amended. I believe that the Minister intends to comply with his request. I suggest to the Minister that perhaps some penalty should be prescribed in the event of a member sitting on a matter in which he has some pecuniary interest. There ought to be a nominal fine of, say, $20. However, if he wilfully sits on such a matter I believe the penalty ought to be higher- say, $500. I should like the Minister to consider that matter when replying. We support the Bill. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Departmental supply vehicles were used to transport freight to Darwin after Cyclone Tracy. 
Will the Minister provide details concerning the freight carried, where the journeys commenced and the time taken for each journey. 
Will the Minister open the Woomera Rocket Range road for the use of private hauliers who provide services to the north. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Treasurer aware of the grave financial difficulties being faced by private road hauliers, due to losses incurred as a result of Cyclone Tracy, as well as flooding in the Northern Territory in 1 974. 
Will the Treasurer give favourable consideration to (a) exempting from sales tax vehicle maintenance and tyres, (b) exempting from sales tax fuel for these hauliers, and (c) doubling the depreciation allowances on vehicles. 
Will the Treasurer provide loans to hauliers at low interest rates so as to enable them to remain viable during the Darwin reconstruction period. 
I present the following petition from 1950 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
1 ) Cause the loss of jobs and future prospects of employees and agents of the private insurance industry throughout Australia. 
Compete unfairly with private insurers. 
Require large taxation subsidies for a lengthy period. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 848 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will nationalise insurance industry: 
1 ) Causing widespread unemployment, 
Stifling freedom of choice and virile competition, and 
Making mendicants of former industry employees and policy-holders alike. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate reject completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I would like to take a moment or two to refer to a matter in the discussion on the Supply Bill (No. 1) 1975-76. 1 suggest to  Senator Cavanagh  that the Senate's responsibility is to examine very critically these items, particularly the one that has been referred to already by  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Wright,  namely the Advance to the Treasurer. The people of Australia seem to regard this Government at the moment as being irresponsible in the way it is frittering away the taxpayers' money. I think it is quite in order for the Senate to suggest to the Government that it ought to be providing some detail with respect to this item because, as I understand it, it is an Advance to the Treasurer to provide for unforeseen contingencies, and as such the advance ought to be a reasonable figure. We maintain that the sum of $ 120 m provided in this Bill and the sum of $ 120 m provided in the other Supply Bill that we will be discussing are quite extraordinary and quite excessive. I suggest that a figure of something like $62. 5m ought to be sufficient to cover the period of only 5 months which, I understand, is the period with which we are dealing. The Opposition is quite justified in delaying the measure so that it can get more specific detail on that matter. 
I want to take just a few more moments to examine a matter which has arisen in South Australia with regard to the Department of Education. This matter could well be typical of situations that face other schools throughout Australia which may be having similar problems. I refer to the Sacred Heart College at Somerton Park in South Australia. As a result of a grant of $74,000 made by the previous Government, that school entered into a contract to construct a library; but up till now that school has received only $25,000 of the $74,000 promised by the previous Government. I would have thought that a subsequent government ought to have honoured a promise made by a previous administration. The school concerned arranged finance to the extent of $49,000 from a bank on the quite reasonable assumption that the present Government would be providing the additional $49,000 in due course. A situation has now arisen in which this school has been offered a grant of $12,000 to assist in building a lecture theatre which is urgently required. It has been forced to refuse to accept that amount of money because it is almost bankrupt. 
I had hoped to ask a question on this matter during question time this morning. I hope that the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  will be in a position to give me some information on this very serious matter.  Mr John  Mathwin the Liberal member for Glenelg in the South Australian State Parliament, has a particular interest in this school. He informs me that the college headmaster, Brother Columbanus, wrote to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  early in April but as yet has not received a reply. 
-I was talking about  Mr John  Mathwin, as a matter of fact. This is a serious matter. No doubt  Senator Wheeldon,  being an avid reader of newspapers, would have noticed the headline in the Glenelg 'Guardian': Can't Afford to Accept a Grant'. The headline was referring to a grant from the Schools Commission.  Senator Wheeldon  nods. I take it that he has read the article and that he has some concern about the matter. I want to know why this amount of $49,000 has not been paid to the Sacred Heart College. I want to know how many other schools in South Australia are in a similar situation. I want to know what the Government is going to do to enable this college to take advantage of the $ 12,000 which is vitally needed for the construction of a lecture theatre at the college. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, once again relates to the Toose report. I have had many complaints about the long delays with respect to this report. Can the Minister say why the report has taken so long to complete, how much the inquiry has cost the Government so far and when he expects to present the report to the Senate? 
I think it is quite disgraceful that  Senator Donald  Cameron should try to shift the responsibility for the delay of this Bill on to the Opposition, because the Opposition has no control over the Senate business. The responsibility clearly lies with the Government to allocate priorities to legislation which it wishes to present to this chamber. It seems to me that the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  failed to get his colleagues to recognise the importance of this measure. That is clearly the reason why this Bill has been delayed.  Senator Donald  Cameron referred also to the fact that people are unable to obtain compensation until this Bill is passed. That is quite true. But I am concerned that to my knowledge there has been complete inactivity in Darwin with respect to the reconstruction program. This morning I heard a complaint on the radio program 'AM' that no building is being carried on in Darwin because the Darwin Reconstruction Commission has been bogged down by bureaucracy and that some of the best people in Darwin are leaving the city. It seemed doubtful to the complainant that Darwin would ever progress to a population of 50 000 people. It seems that people are opting to leave Darwin, are purchasing houses in other areas and are settling in other States. 

 Senator Donald Cameron also brought out a point that I would like to emphasise and that is that some people who wish to rebuild may be interrupted by the town planning in that area perhaps as a result of new roads going through their property. I think the delays will be quite lengthy until the Commission can get on with the job of town planning and reconstructing houses. 
I noticed in the national Press during the weekend that the Darwin Reconstruction Commission has advertised extensively a large number of positions. For example, the position of  deputy  general manager was advertised at a salary of $25,690. Twenty-one positions were advertised in that newspaper. The advertisements indicate that several positions will be available in some categories. Architects are being sought with a salary range between $13,000 and $18,000. Several positions are advertised for town planners carrying a salary of between $13,000 to $18,000. Several positions are advertised for engineers. It seems to me that the Government is developing a little National Capital Development Commission at Darwin. I hope ultimately that these people will be able to be employed somewhere else. I expect that the Government ultimately will give these people positions in other departments once their 5 -year term of service in completed. 
Debate interrupted. 
This Bill provides the mechanism whereby people will be able to claim for damage which occurred as a result of the cyclone at Darwin. I am concerned that the Department of Repatriation and Compensation was unable to extend its capacity perhaps to compensate for other contingencies. For example, I mentioned to the Minister for Repartiation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  the problems that were being experienced by a transport company. He told me that compensation was available for vehicles damaged in the catastrophe. I ask the Minister to explain why it is not possible to extend compensation benefits to cover loss of income as a result of this catastrophe. The company to which I have referred had lost, as a direct result of cyclone Tracy, $47,389 up to 6 March. I was disturbed that immediately after the cyclone the Government chose to provide 19 semi-trailers to carry freight from Adealide and other parts to Darwin. I believe that sort of work ought to have been left in the hands of transport hauliers who have been providing a valuable service to Darwin for many years. That action contributed to substantial losses sustained by these people to whom I have referred. I support what  Senator Drake-  Brockman has said about this Bill. We recognise that it is necessary to move some amendments which we believe will tidy up a few matters. I hope that at that time the Minister will give favourable consideration to them. 
We are considering in this cognate debate 3 Bills which will have a considerable effect on postal services and telecommunications in Australia once the Parliament has passed them. We have heard  Senator Durack  and  Senator Scott  outline the attitude of the Opposition to these Bills. We have supported, in effect, the principle behind the measures. We believe we should establish 2 authorities to conduct these services from now on. Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner and before  Senator McAuliffe  retreated to the anonymity of the chair, he enunciated certain views which were quite interesting. He suggested- this is important coming from a socialist supporter of the Government in the Senate- that the principle of providing a service ought to be that the people who receive the service ought to pay for it. The Government, since it came to office, has seemed to place every impediment possible in the way of the private sector making a profit. 
For  Senator McAuliffe  to enunciate this in great detail seemed to me to be quite significant. He raised the question of Medibank and compared it to the proposal in this legislation. When Medibank is established I think I shall be reminding  Senator McAuliffe  about his comments. Who will be paying for Medibank after it has been in existence for 12 months? I believe that at that time we will discover just who will be paying for that particular service. It will be the taxpayers of Australia. I was concerned initially, when examining the Vernon report, about the trade unions' attitude to this proposal. It seems to me that, according to the report of the Vernon Commission, the unions representing 5 1 000 employees in these particular organisations about which we are talking were against the separation of the administration. Only 32 000 employees, represented by their unions, supported the separation. I hope that we can be reassured by what  Senator Drury  has said that the unions fully support this proposal. 

 Senator Drury also mentioned the importance that we ought to place on the experience of overseas countries. I found it fairly difficult to get adequate data to substantiate the experience of overseas countries. I have observed that in the United Kingdom the Post Office Corporation is now responsible for both the postal and telecommunications services. The Post Office Corporation was established in October 1969 to replace the General Post Office.  Senator Drury  and I think  Senator McAuliffe  said that this type of operation would remove the Commission from the influence of politicians. I should like to mention that the results of the establishment of this Corporation in the United Kingdom show that it sustained a loss of more than £30m in the first 6 months of its life compared with an estimated profit of more than £ 100m. This loss has continued to rise. In 1973-74 there was an overall deficit of f 128m, with losses on all the post office's main services including £6 1.4m on telecommunications, £57. 5m on posts and £9. 7m on giro and remittance services. This gives an indication of what has happened overseas. I agree that it is difficult to compare because the Corporation is dealing with both telecommunications and postal services. 
I should like to refer to  Senator McAuliffe  's statement that the establishment of these Commissions will remove the influence of the politicians. I think that is what he said but he can check it in the Hansard record tomorrow. Again may I refer to what has happended in the United Kingdom. I would like to mention what  Mr Tony  Maiden said in the 'Australian Financial Review' about the establishment of the British Post Office Corporation. He said that decisionmaking by senior administrators of the British Post Office is subject to as much government influence as before and that there has been a corresponding reduction in the administration's own political strength and influence because it lacked direct access to the responsible Minister. I am sure that our Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  will make sure that some recognition will be paid to the amendments which will be put forward by the Opposition to ensure that the proposed authorities will be subject to ministerial influence and subject to the scrutiny of this House. 
In the United States of America there is a different system again. It is very hard to make a comparison with comparable countries which do not have a situation exactly the same as there is in Australia, but in the United States telecommunications services are run by private enterprise while postal services as from 12 August 1970 have been run by the United States Postal Service which is a corporation-style federal agency. I ask the Minister whether he has examined the method of financing postal and telecommunications services in the United States. He will undoubtedly know that financing of the United States Postal Service is by bond issue up to a limit of $ 10,000m with an annual ceiling of $2,000m of which $ 1,500m is for capital investment and $500m is to cover operating deficits. It may be that the Minister will derive some inspiration from that information because, as  Senator Durack  said, we in this country are concerned about the Vernon Commission report which has suggested that the increase in postal charges could be 1 5 per cent per annum and the increase in telecommunication charges could be 7 per cent. So at the moment I think we should be considering this matter on the basis of an increase in postal charges of about 20 per cent and in telecommunication charges probably in the order of 10 per cent or 12 per cent. We are naturally concerned about these increases in costs to the Australian taxpayers. I think it is quite proper that  Senator Durack  should have raised this in his speech. I, together with  Senator Durack  and other members of the Opposition, of course have some concern about the proposal to submerge the services of the OTC in a large organisation that will, I believe, to quite an extent destroy the efficiency of the OTC and the enthusiasm of the 2000 staff members who have demonstrated that they are opposed to this proposal. 
I should like to correct some of the statements that were made by  Senator McAuliffe  about payments that are made by the OTC to the Australian Post Office. Payments made by the OTC to the Post Office for the use of the latter's national network for international public communicating amounted to $9.5m in 1972-73. The Post Office has stated that at normal commercial rates this should have been $13m. The annual payment was increased by $4m for 1974-75, but still includes a contribution of only $500,000 to that part of the Post Office network which connects individual subscribers to their local exchange and which costs $ 1,000m to install. In 1972 the cost of a call to North America was $10.80 for 3 minutes. 
Just a moment. I just want to give the Senate an idea of what is flowing to the Post Office at the moment from the OTC. I will get on to your problem in a moment,  Senator. In  1 972 the cost of a call to North America was $10.80 for 3 minutes. The OTC paid 93.75c to the Post Office for the use of its facilities.  Senator McAuliffe  made an incorrect statement in his speech when he said that the amount of money paid by the OTC for the use of Post Office facilities was 30-odd cents a call. It is in fact in excess of 40c a minute and as overseas calls average more than 7 minutes  Senator McAuliffe  's assessment is incorrect by about 1000 per cent, so that completely explodes anything that  Senator McAuliffe  has said in his speech. 
My authority comes right from the horse's mouth and that is the OTC itself, so that when  Senator McAuliffe  gets on his feet in this place and makes extravagant statements about charges that are made in Australia he ought to be quite sure about his facts. It is very important for Governments to examine carefully the proposal to increase charges for postal services and telecommunication services. Any government in the world has a headache in this field of communications and this applies particularly in a country like Australia with its vast area, with its population distributed over the continent in very remote centres well away from the capital cities. People who are providing the impetus- or who were until this Government came to power- to the development of our mining industries in this country, the people in the northern parts of South Australia and in the Northern Territory who are increasing productivity in pastoral areas are entitled to some service from this Government. I do not think it is unfair to expect the people who live in metropolitan areas in Australia to offer some assistance to keep the costs of postal services at a minimum.  Senator McAuliffe  in his speech led me to believe that he could not care less about the people in the remote areas of Australia. He gave me the impression that he expected them to pay for the services and he knows very well that it costs a lot of money to deliver a letter to a person in Oodnadatta. 
-Yes, Birdsville. 
-Yes, or to Julia Creek. The productivity in these areas is of great consequence and provides a lot of support for and contributes to the sustenance of people like  Senator McAuliffe.  As far as I am concerned, as a city dweller I am prepared to help the people in these country areas and these mining areas to get better and cheaper postal services. I believe this is the altruistic aim of every Australian citizen. We on this side are concerned. I would like the Minister to tell me in his reply a little more about the aims of these commissions, how they propose to increase profitability without imposing great penalties on the people in these remote areas of Australia. I want the Minister to tell me and the people of Australia what research the Government has done overseas in countries which have a comparable situation to that which exists in Australia. I want him to say quite categorically that the proposals under this legislation are going to be in the best interests of the taxpayers of Australia. I oppose the proposal to amalgamate the OTC services into a great conglomeration consisting of about 60 000 people. I believe this would react against the efficiency of OTC services and I support the Opposition's attitude in this regard. 

 - Mr Temporary Chairman, I raise the question in respect of which you advised me earlier in debate. It relates to division 939- Capital Works and Services- and to item 3 which refers to an appropriation of $500,000 for payment to the Health Insurance Commission established under the Health Insurance Commission Act 1973 for the purposes of the Commission. I refer to the fact that a substantial building is being completed in King William Road, North Unley, South Australia, and to the fact that I have been informed that this building is being constructed for Medibank. Can the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  inform me- not immediately if the information is not available, but later- whether this building is being constructed for Medibank and, if so, at what cost? If the building is not being purchased or built by the Government, can the Minister inform me of the details concerning the rental of the building and who will be accommodated in the building? 
-I present the following petition from 1 160 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Nationalize Insurance. 
Accelerate the growth in ratio of Public Servants to others. 
Destroy private initiative and corporate enterprise. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate reject completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Defence aware of a report which appeared in the 'Sunday Mail' in Adelaide on 2 February and which indicated that the Minister for Defence would, as a matter of urgency, make a statement to the Parliament relating to the entire operations involving the use of poison gases, including experiments, trials, transportation and destruction of stocks of mustard, phosgene and lewisite gases during World War II? When can the Parliament expect this to be presented? How many poison gas experiments involving Australian servicemen were conducted during World War II? Where and on what dates did those experiments take place? How many persons were involved in those operations? 
I think it is quite proper that the Opposition has some concern about the inflation that is rife in Australia today. Certainly the Government itself has paid no regard to the constant suggestions of the Opposition that it ought to be watching public expenditure. I think that the presentation of this paper by the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  is justified because the Opposition made a request to the Government to give us some idea of the money that might be required to be spent by the Government in the next few months. I agree with  Senator Wright  who has said that this statement is so much garbage or dunnage, or whatever was the expression he used, because it fails really to give us anything specific at all as to what might be required. I think it is quite interesting to note that the Government is seeking approval in Supply Bill (No. 2) for expenditure of an additional amount of $569m as compared with last year, and $888m in Supply Bill (No. 1). I think it is quite incredible that in respect of Supply Bill (No. 2) the Government should say: 'Righto, the expenditure is substantially higher and as an amount of $60m was sought last year for contingent matters it is reasonable to expect that we need $122m at this time.' 

 Senator Guilfoyle referred to an amount of $335m being provided for Medibank. I have no details relating to this expenditure. No adequate details are provided in the item relating to Medibank- certainly nothing which satisfies me. I would like to know, for example, what the large building under construction in King William Road, North Unley in South Australia is for. I understand that the building is almost completed. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. I refer to investigations that have been carried out over a number of years by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board concerning the possibility of providing television facilities to serve Leigh Creek in South Australia. Is it correct that the Minister last week in answer to a question indicated that the installation costs would be very heavy in that area compared to more populous areas? If it is correct, can the Minister give the cost of such an installation? Can he also give any comparative costs to install a local video-tape type service similar to those provided by private companies in other mining areas remote from the capital cities? Has the Minister considered approaching the South Australian Electricity Trust concerning the possibility of its assisting the financing of such a facility? Could a facility of that type be used as a relay station in the event of a satellite television service being provided to Australia? 
I rise just to indicate that I cannot see anything wrong with the way in which the boundaries have been redistributed in South Australia. It is a marginal sort of redistribution; it is not a major matter at all. In fact, I envisage that if the next election is conducted on the proposed boundaries the Liberal Party will win the seat of Grey. Under the proposed redistribution it will be improved marginally in favour of the Liberal Party and, marginal though it may be, it will be sufficient to give the seat of Grey to that Party. 
I am discussing the proposal now before the Senate, which concerns South Australia. We are not arguing about the fairness of the redistribution in South Australia at all. We are just pointing out that it is unfair to consider this redistribution in isolation. We believe it is fair to consider it on a national basis.  Senator McLaren  seemed to me to have been insinuating that our attitude in this matter is dictated by the National Country Party of Australia. That is quite ridiculous and as far as I am concerned that has nothing to do with the issue. We frequently hear the opinions of  Mr Mackerras  quoted, and I suppose he has made a study of this subject. 
-That is quite true. I have heard him make predictions on election results early in the evening on polling day that have certainly led me to believe that he is not as accurate in some of his estimates as perhaps he thinks he is. In fact when I spoke to  Mr Mackerras  last year, I forget exactly when, he seemed to give me the impression that he believed that a redistribution at this time was premature, that it ought to be done after the next census. I think the next census is to be held next year; so a redistribution in about 1977 would probably be much better altogether because no doubt by that time we will require another seat in Queensland, one in Western Australia, and possibly there would be a need for a further seat in South Australia although the demographic predictions for that State would seem to indicate that the population trends are not moving forward at the present time. I can understand that too, because the present State administration under the control of  Mr Dunstan  is in a chaotic mess. I support the attitude outlined by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  and I look forward to the next election when we can deal with the Government and return to the treasury bench. I believe we can assert some responsibility in government once again. 
asked the Minister representing the Minster for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Have any measurements of methyl mercury in Australian fish been made; if so, what proportion of the total mercury is represented by methyl mercury. 
Has the National Health and Medical Research Council taken into account the proportion of mercury present as methyl mercury in the formulation of their standard; if not, do they propose to do so in the future. 
Since present data implicates methyl mercury as the principal health hazard in mercury contaminated fish and methyl mercury analysis is far more reliable than total mercury analysis, is any attempt being made to use methyl mercury as the basis for the standard. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has a survey been made in Australia to determine what are 'normal * and what are 'abnormal ' mercury levels in the population. 
Has a survey been made of the dietary mercury intake of people with abnormally high levels of body mercury to determine the source of the mercury. 
Have any toxicity symptoms attributable to mercury been observed in the Australian population. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact that the Everard Park cattle station in South Australia which was purchased by the Government for use as an Aboriginal reserve, I think some time last year or the year before, is in a bad state of repair and that, due to a lack of maintenance, most of the bores on the property are now nonoperative? Is it also a fact that as a result 400 cattle have died? Can the Minister tell me the present condition of the bores? How many cattle remain on the station? How many Aborigines are employed there? If it is correct that the bores are out of action, what is the Government doing to rectify the situation? 
I present 4 petitions identical in wording, from 32, 7, 473 and 1 1 citizens of Australia respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will nationalize the Insurance Industry: 
. Causing widespread unemployment, 
Stifling freedom of choice and virile competition, and 
Making mendicants of former Industry employees and policy-holders alike. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate reject completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received, and first petition read. 
I present the following petition from 86 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That because of the excessively high inflation rate, the Government decision to decrease the taxable allowance for education expenses from $400 to $ 1 50 per student will create unreasonable financial pressures upon many families and will cause great difficulty for such families to provide their children with an adequate education. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government restore the taxable allowance to $400. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Why was the HMAS 'Banks' which sailed from Port Adelaide on 3 March 1975, for Sydney on exercises diverted at Portland, Victoria, to King Island where that ship mct with another naval vessel. 
Were HMAS 'Banks' and the other naval vessel sent to King Island to be a back drop for the Minister for Defence at a pastoral fete; if so, was the original naval exercise abandoned as a consequence. 

 - Mr President, I wish to ask a supplementary question. 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the abortive $2,000m Middle East petrodollar deal which was initiated by the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor.  Can the Minister say whether the Monte Carlo Finance Company and the Globe Finance Company were involved with discussions in respect to this deal? Can the Minister say where these companies are based and what are the names and addresses of the principals of these companies? If he cannot provide the latter information will he give me some information at a later time? 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, 1 present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
1 ) Australian Government Centre at Parramatta, New South Wales; 
Road Safety and Standards Authority Facilities at Albury/Wodonga; 
Edgecliff Telephone  Exchange, Sydney, N.S.W. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
Did a Commonwealth arbitration inspector, who was a former endorsed Australian Labor Party candidate for the South Australian Legislative Council, attend a meeting of members of the Administrative and Clerical Officers' Association held in the Adelaide Town Hall during 1974 after the rejection of an ACOA pay claim. 
Did the inspector advocate strike action, and suggest that workers in transport and communications be urged to strike, and that a general fund be set up by ACOA members to finance strikers who were called out. 
Is this action compatible with the officer's position as a Commonwealth arbitration inspector. 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for Education recall that earlier this month I asked him about the outstanding balance of the grant promised by the Liberal-Country Party Government to the Sacred Heart College in South Australia, pointing out that $49,000, the balance of the grant, had been borrowed by the school for the construction of a library on the assumption that the remainder of the grant, which I think originally was $74,500, would be forthcoming? Does the Minister also recall that this school has been unable to accept a further grant of $ 12,000 from the Schools Commission for an urgently needed lecture theatre because of the present indebtedness? I pointed out that a number of South Australian Catholic schools are in the same category. Is the Minister aware that I wrote to the Minister for Education on 14 April, and subsequently on 12 May, asking him for sympathetic consideration and requesting payment of this money, and that as yet I have had no substantive reply?  Senator Davidson  shares my concern in this matter. Does the Minister remember admitting that the Government had a moral obligation in this matter? Will the Minister make further representations to his colleague on behalf of  Senator Davidson  and myself pointing out again the plight of the college and requesting a reply before the Senate rises this week? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many people are receiving benefits under the National Employment and Training Scheme in the following age groups: (a) between 55 and 60 years of age and (b) between 60 and 65 years of age. 
I present the following petition from 10 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
That while there is a need to establish in Australia a Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation for property damage and the losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established as in other countries, using the medium of the existing private enterprise insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October 1 974. 
That no reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office (other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurance and Australian Government competition with private enterprise) have been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45 life assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition from a Government Office would only be harmful. 
That the insurance industry is already faced with 
the effects of inflation, 
increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already in train or in prospect by the Government, e.g. the National Compensation Bill, a National Superannuation Plan and improved Commonwealth Public Service Superannuation. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than the $2 million initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed will be allocated) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask that leave be given to attach to the petition documents signed by 5370 citizens of Australia objecting to the establishment of an Australian Government insurance corporation. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the Press reports relating to  Mr Barnard's  recent diplomatic appointment, which state that  Mr Barnard  will be the Australian Ambassador to Sweden and Finland and that  Mr Petherbridge  has been the Ambassador to Sweden, Finland and Norway. Does that mean that a new diplomatic post has been created for  Mr Barnard?  Will  Mr Petherbridge  remain as the Ambassador to Norway? If not, what will be the position with respect to Australia's representation in that country? 
-I do not want to delay the Senate for too long but I want to raise a matter which I believe warrants the urgent consideration of the Government. I did give notice to  Senator Douglas  McClelland that I wanted to make reference to this matter tonight. I notice he is not in the Senate at the present time. 
I believe it is important because it concerns the plight of a  Mr Grubic  from South Australia, who is the owner, builder and skipper of a South Australian yacht, 'Anaconda II'. 
-I should have thought that  Senator Cavanagh,  being a South Australian, would be interested in this particular matter. I understand that this yacht is the only Australian entrant in the London 'Financial Times' Clipper Race to be conducted in August. 
In order to inform my friend from Victoria, the yacht is called 'Anaconda II'. I am informed by a prominent yachting man from South Australia that in order to participate in this race it is necessary for this vessel to be equipped with a world range radio transmitter. I am told the capacity of this transmitter should be from 2 megawatts to 1 8 megawatts. The cost of this radio is between $7,000 and $8,000. I am also informed that the ideal radio is the Marconi Bravo which, I understand, is available in Australia. I am told that  Mr Stewart  has been approached, as Minister for Tourism and Recreation, to determine whether it is possible to attract a grant so that this particular radio can be purchased and installed. 
The Government seems to be able to find an extraordinary amount of money for other sporting organisations throughout Australia- I gather to attract votes for a possible election in the future. It seems to be that there may be some motive behind this refusal to give favourable consideration to this particular request. I think that as this race has the blessing of the Australian Yachting Federation the Government ought to give some consideration to providing what appears to me to be a very insignificant sum of money so that Australia can be represented in this world recognised race.  Mr Grubic  suffered an unfortunate accident not long ago when the yacht slipped and crushed his legs, resulting in 2 broken legs and, I understand, some minor head injuries. Being a courageous person, he intends to go to London for this race and join the yacht, which will be sailing from Adelaide, I believe, on Sunday 15 June. 
My suggestion is that the Government, through the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, ought to give a grant to this gentleman so that he can purchase the radio. I believe that  Mr Barnard  was approached at one time about this and no action was taken on the matter. If it is not possible to make a grant, I suggest that the Government could lend a radio from the Royal Australian Navy that would help this person out of his troubles. I know that the Minister is a man interested in sporting activities, and I believe that he is also one who would recognise the importance of having Australia represented in this race. I ask him whether he will make some urgent representations to see whether a radio can be provided. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide details of the total grants made by the present Government to all South Australian Electorates through the Department of Tourism and Recreation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Have any measurements been made of selenium levels in Australian fish. 
What attempts have been made in Australia to standardise methods used by laboratories testing for mercury. 
Do present or proposed regulations include standardisation of analytical methods and require consistent analytical results from independent laboratories. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has a survey been made of the natural levels of mercury and mercurials in the Australian environment. 
Has a survey been made of the use of mercury and mercurials in Australia. 
What, and where, are the losses of mercury and mercurials to the environment in Australia. 
Is there any evidence of mercury accumulation in the Australian environment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide details of the total grants made by the present Government to all South Australian Electorates under the Australian Assistance Plan. 
-I should like to direct a question to the Minister for the Media. I think this comes under his responsibility, although it may have something to do with the PostmasterGeneral. I am not quite sure how many cricket enthusiasts live in Tasmania either. Is it a fact that the British Broadcasting Commission will not be telecasting the forthcoming test series in the United Kingdom because of the $ 1 35,000 fee required by the Postmaster-General's Department or the Broadcasting Control Board for this service? Will the Minister intervene and negotiate with the BBC with a view to reducing that charge and thereby make it possible for Australian cricket enthusiasts to view this important cricketing event? 
I would like to say a word on this matter. Originally I had some concern with the proposal to introduce the 65 years retiring limit into this Bill. I suppose I was influenced quite a lot by the large number of telegrams and representations that I have received from members of the Public Service. Most of these people have some selfinterest, of course. I can understand their attitude, because no doubt I would adopt a similar attitude. I have had many talks with younger members of the Public Service who will have to pay more, and I have had talks with people who have opted to retire at 60 years of age under the existing scheme. The people in the latter group are quite confused because they believe that they will be unable to continue with that objective. I have been able to assure them that they will be able to do so. I spoke only a few moments ago on the telephone to a friend of mine in the Commonwealth Public Service in South Australia who is paying $79.57 a fortnight for superannuation. He is a Class 8 public servant on a salary of $13,590.  His  take home pay is about half his gross salary. I can see the problem facing that class of public servant. 
Strangely enough, he recognises the responsibility of the Opposition in this matter and appreciates that our action is in the best interests of the community at large. I assured him that if he wished he would be able to come into the new scheme, under our amendment, and would receive a lump sum repayment of the excess amount that he has been contributing, provided he has been in the service for 20 years. If he retired at the earlier retiring age of 60, his Government financed pension would be 40 per cent, not the 50 per cent that he would receive if he went on to 65. I understand that under our scheme, for each year of service after 60 years, this figure of 40 per cent increases by 2 per cent. When I explained the position to this friend of mine he thought the proposition was fair. Several of his friends have been involved in the discussion as well. He has an ambition to go overseas. He would find this lump sum repayment very useful. He would have no difficulty investing it at 12 per cent. In his case, that has some attraction. 
I would like to think that a future LiberalNational Country Party Government would look at this clause. I am quite sure that the time for us to occupy the Treasury bench is not far off. I believe that under the management of a LiberalNational Country Party Government the inflationary problem will eventually be brought under control. When the economic climate is such that we can look at this clause again, I believe we ought to reconsider this amendment. I believe also that the Liberal-National Country Party Government ought to be looking at the question of a national superannuation scheme so that we can offer to the private sector something that is as good as or almost as good as the scheme which is being offered to the Public Service. I think that is an area of responsibility in which insurance companies might take up the challenge. I would like to think that when the time comes for our Government to take over from the socialists we will be able to offer to private enterprise a national superannuation scheme, based on private enterprise and something which will bring some equity back into this area of superannuation. For that reason I support the amendment at this stage, although initially I had my doubts about it. I have had an opportunity to discuss it with people concerned and to examine our responsibilities in the private sector. Bearing in mind what I have said about our responsibility to do something positive in future with respect to national superannuation, I support the amendment. 
-The Bill before the Senate seeks to amend the Health Insurance Act of 1 973. This is the culmination of many years of effort on the part of Australian optometrists for the inclusion of benefits for their patients under the national health scheme. The original national health scheme, of course, was conceived by  Dr Earle  Page and when it was drafted in the early 1 950s an anomaly existed because a benefit for a refractive examination was to be paid only to the patient of a medical practitioner. This clearly discriminated against the patients of a thousand registered optometrists in Australia who were performing almost 90 per cent of the refractive examinations in this country at this time. 
The Menzies Government wisely recognised this inequity and this resulted in an alteration of the Act, thereby preventing a benefit from being paid as a result of a consultation for the prescription of spectacles. From that time onwards, the Australian Optometrical Association has striven for a universal optometric benefit to be included in the Act. The Liberal-Country Party Government took the first step in this direction when the Gorton Government recognised the right of optometrists to refer their patients directly to an ophthalmologist, a medical practitioner, and allowed a full specialist benefit to be paid for such a visit. Since then members of the health committee of the Liberal and Country Parties have worked towards the inclusion of optometric benefits in the health scheme, and last May it formulated a policy to enable this to happen. So I believe the stage was set for the Opposition to welcome this Bill, and of course we support the measure before the Senate. 
The Australian optometric profession can claim a number of firsts in its history. The first statutory registration of optometrists in the British Commonwealth occurred in Tasmania in 1913. The first professor of optometry in the British Commonwealth was Professor Joseph Lederer of Sydney, and his Department of Optometry in the University of New South Wales was the first university school of optometry in the British Commonwealth. Since those earlier days many Australian optometrists have attracted overseas recognition in the scientific field. Men such as  Dr Barry  Cole and  Dr Barry  Collins, who are principal lecturers in the Victorian College of Optometry, are among these prominent optometrists. As a result of the work done by Professor Lederer, the Lederer lens for people with partial sight received world recognition. I should mention a South Australian who is distinguished in the optometric field, particularly in the field of scientific instrumentation. He is  Mr Don  Schulz, who is a very prominent optometrist. I mention also  Mr G.  Henry of Melbourne, who was one of the first Churchill Fellows to return from Cambridge University to join a team led by Professor Peter Bishop of the Australian National University. Currently this team leads the world in electro-physiology ofthe visual cortex. I could highlight many more examples of Australian optometrical achievement if time permitted. Suffice it to say that the profession is one of high ethical and academic standards, world recognised and well equipped to deal with its special role in the field of health care. 
I believe it is of interest to the Senate to know something more of the training of optometrists in Australia. I shall refer to aspects of the syllabus at the University of New South Wales, which is characteristic of the other 2 optometric training colleges in Melbourne and Brisbane, although the emphasis on some aspects of the course might vary slightly in each of these institutions. Optometry students receive part of their training from medical teachers. The amount of this varies among the different optometry schools, and it has not changed during the past 10 years or so. 
It is quite interesting to note who among the medical specialists deal with this type of optometric instruction. I shall refer by way of example to the University of New South Wales. There are 2 subjects in which these people participate. One is the indications for medical referral, and the other is physiology. Among the doctors and medical professors who deal with these subjects are men from the disciplines of pharmacology, dermatology, neurology, physiology, psychiatry, genetics and many others. It is interesting to note that prominent among these doctors is Professor Walsh, the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of New South Wales, who will personally organise a course for medical referral beginning in July 1975. In New South Wales, excluding those subjects properly taught by other schools, namely, general biology, physics, chemistry, mathematics, physiology and general studies, the professional core of the optometry degree course comprises 120 semester hours. Of these, 1 3 semester hours or about 1 1 per cent, are taught by medical teachers. In Victoria a little more time is spent on that subject. Ninety-five semester hours ofthe professional core comprise optometrical subjects and clinical optometry, which undoubtedly are best taught by optometrical teachers. The remaining 12 semester hours of the professional core, which comprise ocular anatomy and ocular disease, could well be taught by ophthalmological teachers. However, the Australian ophthalmologists have been reluctant to participate in this area. 
I hope that from now on the ophthalmologists will take more interest in this aspect of optometrical training because I understand that according to the by-laws of their society no member of that profession shall undertake to address optometrical organisations or undertake the teaching or instruction of optometrists, undergraduates or students in optometry without the express permission of the council of that college. I believe that the ophthalmologists are sympathetic or becoming sympathetic in this area. I suggest that it would be a good thing for the 2 professions if they were to co-operate in this important area. 
Optometrists, of course, are controlled under the State health Acts and there is a specific definition of the practice of optometry in the legislation of the States and, of course, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Again I refer to the New South Wales Act. It defines optometry as the means of doing or performing one or more of the following acts, matters or things, that is to say, the examination of the eyes, the measurement of their functions and powers with the object of determining whether there is any and if so the nature or degree of any abnormality or defect of sight, the correction, remedying and relieving of any abnormality or defect of sight by means of an optical appliance or orthoptic treatment and optical dispensing. It goes on to define other things, such as visual screening. It also provides for professional misconduct to be dealt with by a special board. I think that is an important aspect of the optometric profession. 
The optometric profession has also fulfilled a role of community service. Recognising that there was a need in Australia to provide a more adequate eye care service to the needy in our community, the Australian Optometrical Association in 1958 began the pensioner optometric service, which was a voluntary scheme by which optometrists gave their professional services at no cost in order to provide eye care to the group of people in our community who most need that service and who are least able to afford it. I should mention- I think it is quite important for the Minister to realise this-that estimates have been made that through the voluntary pensioner optometric service over 4 million members of our disadvantaged geriatric community have received eye care. 
In 1972 an appeal was launched among Australian optometrists for donations towards the establishment of a national centre for research into clinical aspects of visual science. Australian optometrists responded to this appeal to which they each donated about $150, and the National Vision Research Institute is now in existence. I should like to suggest to the Minister that he ought to transmit this message to his colleagueand I should like to emphasise this- because the Australian Government has not yet seen fit to make funds available for the technical equipment and research staff that the Institute requires to achieve its full potential. I think, now that the profession has come of age- I believe that is the correct term to use- and is blossoming as a profession in its own right quite properly in Australia, the Government ought to support that Institute. 
I just want to mention one or two other aspects, and I realise that time is rather short. The optometric profession is the only profession working in the field of health care which overlaps the medical profession in the services provided. Although refraction is the fundamental specialty of the optometrist, the ophthalmologist or oculist, the medical and surgical eye specialist, conducts refractive examination as a substantial section of the service he provides to his patients. For this reason there has been some antagonism between the 2 professions with respect to the inclusion of a non-medical optometrical benefit in the national health scheme. Since I have been an elected member of Parliament I have never promoted optometry in isolation. On the contrary, whenever this subject has arisen I have tried to demonstrate as clearly and as fairly as I can the role of ophthamology and optometry in health care. I have always pointed out that although the optometrist has the prime function to correct vision by means of spectacles, contact lenses or by orthoptic methods, he is trained to recognise departures from the normal that could originate from other causes, and in such instances a medical opinion is always recommended to the patient, the interest of the patient being of paramount concern to the optometrist. 
The medically trained oculist, of course, has the capacity to diagnose and treat ocular disease by medical and surgical means. Australian ophthamologists have an international reputation of being among the best in the world. It is my opinion that the 2 professions are now working closely together politically as the majority of their members have been, over many years, clinically. I trust that this will continue in the interest of providing the highest possible standards of treatment for the people of Australia who require eye care. 
I want to refer now to some aspects of the Bill that we are considering. I should like to draw the attention of the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  to one or two points that were made in his second reading speech. It is well to remind the Senate that this Bill provides for a benefit to be paid in respect of professional attendance only and it is not a benefit, of course, for the provison of spectacles. I was rather anxious for the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation who is in charge of the Bill in the Senate to inform me of the role of the Minister who will be administering the legislation, in respect to proposed new section 23A. 
It is clause 8 which seeks to insert a new section 23A in Part II of the principal Act. Proposed new section 23A (2) reads: 
The common form of undertaking shall provide for the following matters, as well as any other matters that the Minister considers appropriate: 
a specification of such of the premises owned by, or in the possession of, the optometrist at which he provides services of a kind to which the undertaking relates as are covered by the undertaking; 
I ask the Minister whether this means that the Minister can determine the plan of consulting rooms and facilities that should be provided. I also ask whether the provision applies similarly to doctors' rooms. 
In his second reading speech the Minister says: 
Participating optometrists will undertake to accept the assignment of benefits for most consultations with persons with pensioner medical service entitlement, any other low income groups . . . 
I would be grateful if the Minister could define more precisely the term 'any other low income groups'. 
-Senator Wright draws my attention to another aspect of the matter. Further on in his second reading speech the Minister refers to another matter which gives people some concern, and that is the matter of the number of consultations that a patient ought to have. The Bill recognises that, generally speaking, a patient who wants optometric treatment would require only 2 consultations a year. However, the second reading speech does mention that 9 per cent of optometric patients may require more than 2 consultations and that the optometrist has to certify that in his professional opinion further examinations are necessary. I believe that is quite a proper provision. I am quite certain that the Australian Optometrical Association is very concerned that the profession does not over utilise this scheme. I have the assurance of the  President  of the Australian Optometrical Association,  Mr Ley,  and his colleagues on the executive that they are anxious to ensure this does not occur. 
Another aspect of the Bill about which the Opposition is concerned relates to the categories, which have been described, under which contact lenses will be approved. The Opposition believes that this sort of restriction should not apply. We believe that the additional cost of contact lenses would be sufficient deterrent to over-utilisation of that service and that this in itself would be sufficient to protect the interests of the taxpayer as regards benefits of that nature. I am a little worried about the type of patient, for example, who is described as having myopia greater than 4.0 diopters in the dominant eye. A young girl of, say, 1 8 years of age who requires a myopic correction of 3.0 diopters could find this restriction somewhat of a psychological disadvantage. In my opinion, this could well be allied to a medical surgical operation, for example, cosmetic breast surgery. This can be a psychological problem. In my view, that type of case ought to be included. I suppose that it could well be allied- perhaps my medical friend on my left can help me with the technical term- to the operation which reduces one 's abdominal girth. 
In my view and in the view of the Opposition, these things are important and perhaps in future they might be the subject of reconsideration by the Government. I would like some advice on another part of the Bill. The Minister said in his second reading speech: 
The common form of undertaking will also state the amount that a participating optometrist may charge, in addition to the normal consultation fee, for a domiciliary visit made at the request of the patient. 
Of course, this also applies where the optometrist conducts an examination away from his surgery. The Minister goes on to state: 
In a situation where an optometrist with a principal practice in one town visits outlying areas periodically, higher charges are necessarily made to offset the additional costs involved. 
I had personal experience of this situation in my own case years ago when I lived in Port Augusta and serviced a large part of northern South Australia. I want to ask the Minister whether any formula has been considered for additional charges in these particular cases. I would appreciate it if he could give me some information on that subject. I was also concerned that mention has not been made specifically of a review of fees for optometric services, although I notice that the Minister in his second reading speech says: 
The Bill also provides for the establishment of Optometrical Services Committees of Inquiry and Optometrical Services Review Tribunals. 
Apparently, they function in a similar way to the committees of inquiry of the medical profession. So I ask the Minister in addition whether this particular committee will be working in a similar way to the committees of the medical profession and whether there will be a review- I think it is an annual review in the medical profession- in line with the medical fee reviews.  Mr President,  I have one or two other matters with which I wish to deal. I am afraid that they will take me beyond 
I I o'clock. I suggest that I may be permitted to continue my remarks. 

 -Mr President, I am very pleased that - 
I am glad that  Senator Missen  has raised the subject of the change to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation because concern has been expressed to me by people who are employed by the CSIRO in South Australia over the decision by the Government that this Organisation be absorbed into the Department of Minerals and Energy, or whatever that Department may be called at this time. I believe that this action has been taken in flagrant disregard of the wishes of the staff of the Organisations. I can understand the apprehension of the people who will now be embraced by the strangler, as the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has been aptly described. 

 -Mr President, I did notify - 
-I tried to get the attention of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  by way of interjection earlier so as to save time. Earlier I raised the question of some incentives for the shipbuilding industry. I specified these in my previous speech. I should like the Minister to have a look at that question and see whether he can reconsider these matters in the interests of the shipbuilding industry. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate supplementary to that asked by  Senator Baume.  Who is  Mr Khemlani?  Where are his headquarters? Who or what organisation does he represent? Has he been associated with Dolmac Consultants? What commission has he been paid for the loan investigations he has carried out so far on behalf of the Government? 
I agree with the Opposition's attitude in respect of this amendment. In doing so I certainly cast no reflection on  Senator Steele  Hall, whom I regard quite highly. I think he is a competent member of the Senate. He exerts his influence here in no uncertain manner. He very fairly condemns the Government on many issues which I support. Occasionally I have some doubts about the way he castigates the Opposition but nevertheless I have some regard for his competence. What I am going to say is in no way a reflection on him as a senator but I do - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)- Senator this  is not a time for confessions; it is a time for debate of the amendment. 
I just want to remind the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  of what he said. He said that the Liberal Movement should have representation on the delegation. However, the Liberal Movement already has representation at the Convention in the person of  Mr Millhouse,  the leader of that relatively minor Party in South Australia. I dare not use the word 'splinter' because I know how offensive it would be to  Senator Steele  Hall. However, I do remind  Senator Hall  that 33 and one-third per cent of his Party's parliamentary representation will be in attendance at the Convention. If we give him a place it will mean that 50 per cent of his Party's parliamentary representation will be at the Convention. 
I want to indicate to the Senate and to the South Australian electorate that in no way are we denigrating  Senator Hall  by moving this amendment. We think it is fair to insist that the Liberal and National Country parties have a greater voice on this delegation. The Leader of the Government in the Senate referred to the Democratic Labor Party. The Democratic Labor Party is a Party of a quite different character to that of the Liberal Movement and it did contest elections in every State. As such it had some claim to be represented on the delegation from this Parliament. Not only that, it had four or five members in the Senate which is quite different from the single voice from the Liberal Movement we have bleating here occasionally. I repeat that this is not an action by the Opposition in denigration of  Senator Hall;  it is merely a fair request and I believe we ought to insist on it. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Senator Withers')  be agreed to. 
The Senate is discussing the Ship Construction Bounty Bill 1975 which authorises the payment of a bounty to shipbuilders who are engaged in the construction or modification, at registered premises, of vessels for use in Australian waters or for use in the overseas trade as vessels registered in Australia. This Bill is of particular interest to me, as it is to the Australian shipbuilding industry as a whole. I have a particular interest in it because it affects, of course, the shipbuilding activities of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd at Whyalla, upon which that community depends very much for its economic well being. There are a number of aspects of this Bill which perhaps ought to be discussed in fairly great detail. 
I think that  Senator Cotton  who led for the Opposition in the debate on this Bill has indicated that he has had representations from shipbuilders and has taken note of their concern, so I will not elaborate to any great extent in that respect. The matter of the date of the keel laying or the date of the beginning of construction which is mentioned in the Bill has apparently been dealt with fairly adequately in the legislation. The Bill, as tabled in the Senate, really makes no specific mention of a keel laying date but refers to the commencement of construction. This seems to overcome some difficulties which have worried shipbuilders. 
Another point which is not mentioned in the representations that were made to  Senator Cotton  but which has come to mind following a study of this Bill relates to clause 6 of the Bill. This clause confers wide discretionary powers on the Minister whereby he may disregard any part of a vessel price for the purpose of determining bounty. The original policy statement of December 1973 enumerated several specific items. For example, it mentioned that insurance would be excluded from price for determination of the bounty. However, the last paragraph of clause 6(1) is not specific and could be interpreted to mean that the Minister may adjust the bounty on the basis of factors such as the vessel design features or selection of particular items of machinery or equipment. For example, the Minister may consider that a vessel needs only 6 hatches instead of 7 hatches or that the speed of 16 knots for the vessel is unnecessary and that 15 knots would be sufficient. On the basis of such judgments it seems that the Minister would have the power to reduce the bounty price and hence the bounty itself. If the discretionary powers are likely to be used in this way it will add to the uncertainty already existing in the minds of owners and builders in the whole matter of bounty determination. 
I think that the shipbuilders misgivings about the policy and the legislation may be summarised by saying that there is nothing to encourage capital investment in new facilities. Such investment is badly needed if the industry is to achieve the efficiencies needed to offset the effects of reducing bounty in the face of world competition. Inducements to shipowners in the form of credit facilities and accelerated depreciation have been suggested but apparently the Government has rejected these proposals. Incentives to the shipbuilders themselves could be in the form of an investment allowance for taxation purposes, or perhaps special loans. But again, these proposals have not been favourably considered by the Government. I think the Government has rebutted this with the argument that the shipbuilding industry should receive no concessions that are not available to manufacturing industry generally. 
Another matter on which I would like the Minister's comment is the case of a shipbuilder in Australia who may build a vessel for an Australian enterprise. What would happen if that enterprise, through unforeseen circumstances, no longer required such a vessel? I understand that there is a problem here if the shipbuilder sells the vessel at a loss. I believe that the recapture of the bounty in such a case should be waived. I support the Bill. 
I wish to intrude for a moment or two and comment on the remarks of the previous  speaker, Senator McLaren  I think it is quite extraordinary for him to defend  Mr Dunstan  in this way because I recall that in 1970, I think it was, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in a speech at the Australian National University suggested that all Australian Labor Party State members of Parliament and State premiers were working towards their own dissolution. I find it quite incredible for our friend from Murray Bridge in South Australia to defend his Premier here. I suppose I can understand that the Premier of South Australia is ashamed of being associated with the Labor Party. I want to draw the Senate's attention to an advertisement that appeared in the  Advertiser  today in which  Mr Dunstan  asked people not to vote for the Labor Party but to re-elect the Dunstan Government. I find that an extraordinary about-face by a man who has been encouraging the Federal Government in its centralistic legislation. He has pulled out from under and is ashamed to be associated with the Labor Party. 
I believe this advertisement condemns not only the Federal Labor Government but the State Labor Party as well. I condemn  Mr Dunstan  for his dishonesty in advertising in this incredible way throughout South Australia in an attempt to hoodwink the people of South Australia into supporting in that State a socialist government which is dedicated to the ideals of the Labor Party in eliminating not only State governments but also the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that people living at the opal mining town of Coober Pedy in South Australia have to pay 84.4 cents per gallon for supergrade motor spirit, 81.7 cents per gallon for standard petrol, 41 cents per gallon for diesel fuel and on credit 42.S cents per gallon (duty free) and 72.7 cents per gallon (not duty free); if so does the Minister realise that because of such high costs many miners are unable to afford to use much of their equipment. 
Will the Minister give favourable consideration to reintroducing the fuel equalisation scheme to reduce the cost of fuel, in view of the serious financial problems facing the miners, as the cost of petrol increased by 12 cents per gallon when the subsidy was discontinued. 

 Senator Cavanagh: The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) 1 am aware that the termination of the Petroleum Products Subsidy Scheme has resulted in an increase in the cost of some petroleum products, including petrol and distillate, in certain country areas. The amount of subsidy payable on petrol sold at Coober Pedy was 11.6 cents per gallon, and on distillate 7.6 cents per gallon, when the Subsidy Scheme ceased operation on 1 August 1974. 
While fully appreciating that the increased fuel costs which followed abolition of the Subsidy Scheme are significant in some more remote areas, the Government is convinced that there was no overall economic or social justification for continuance of the Scheme. 
Whilst the Scheme partly subsidised the transport costs of some petroleum products in particular areas of Australia the community in general bore the cost of this subsidy. The community does not bear the costs of transporting other essential products such as building materials, food, clothing, machinery, liquefied gas and so on, and there is no special reason why it should do so in the case of petrol and other petroleum fuels. 
If the subsidy had not been removed the Government would have been obliged either to set taxation at a higher level or to make corresponding reductions in other, better justified areas of expenditure. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did any servicemen die as a result of poison gas tests conducted during World War II; if so, how many. 
I present the following petition from 102 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
That while there is a need to establish in Australia a Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation for property damage and other losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established, as in other countries, using the medium of the existing private enterprise insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October 1974. 
That no reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office (other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurance and Australian Government competition with private enterprise) have been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45 life assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition from a Government Office would only be harmful. 
6) That the insurance industry is already faced with 
the effects of inflation, 
b ) increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already in train or in prospect by the Government, e.g. the National Compensation Bill, National Superannuation Plan. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than the $2 million initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed will be allocated) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
As the petition exceeds 250 words I ask that leave be given for the petition to be read by the  Clerk. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Agriculture and refer to the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the superphosphate matter. I have not yet discovered the report in my office, but I take it that it is now a public document. Is the Minister aware that more than 1000 employees of the fertiliser industry in Australia have been retrenched and that unless an adequate bounty is provided further unemployment will occur? Is he also aware that there are fertiliser factories in Australia which are inoperative at present and that many are working at a very low capacity? Can the Minister say when he intends to make a decision on this matter? Does the Minister intend to allow the industries concerned with superphosphate the opportunity to make further representations once they have been able to examine the report? 
I was very interested to hear the speech of  Senator Coleman,  who has just resumed her seat. She would seem to me to be somewhat of a latter day Germain Greer because she has been expounding the cause of women. 
I support the view that there are some areas in which women are discriminated against and I believe that those matters ought to be corrected. 
Thank heavens I married my wife because she believes in being a wife and regards her husband very highly. We have a very good partnership and I have looked after my wife very well as far as insurance is concerned. I have looked after my wife as any husband ought to look after his wife. There is nothing to be ashamed of in being a woman. I have a high regard for women. I believe that women have a very important role to play in Australia. Obviously honourable senators on the other side do not regard women as I regard them. 
I was interested in the comments of the lady senator who has just resumed her seat. She might prefer to be referred to by some other term. I am not quite sure what the senatorial term for  Ms is.  She spent a lot of time in complaining, as other government senators have complained, about the money spent on the campaign by insurance companies in defending their position with respect to this Bill. I believe very strongly that the 8 million policy holders, many of whom would be women, would be very anxious to preserve the capacity of those insurance companies to invest their money in order to provide policy holders with the bonuses to which they are entitled. Honourable senators on the government side do not worry too much about spending money with reckless abandon on the propaganda machine of the government when they want to advertise Medibank, legal aid or the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. They do not worry about squandering the taxpayers' money in that respect, but they have the infernal impudence to suggest that the private insurance companies should not spend some money to protect the interests of the 8 million shareholders in their companies, who would be the average working people in Australia- the people whom Government senators purport to represent. I believe that those people have been let down very badly tonight by the speakers from the Government side. This Bill is completely unacceptable to me. 
It is unacceptable not only to me but to all members on the Opposition side because it presents a threat to the policy holders of the insurance companies in this country. The insurance industry in Australia employs about 50 000 people. Not only does it employ 50 000 people, it also provides an economic service to other private industries throughout Australia. I believe that the editorial in the  Age  of 15 May sums up my feelings and describes the attitude of the Government fairly well. Part of that editorial states: 
The plan for the AGIC seems to be based more on Labor ideological prejudices and unbounded ambitions than on any clear cut national necessity. Even if AGIC should not be condemned for being as potentially dangerous as its vehement opponents fear or pretend; even if it would compete without unfair advantage over private enterprise or undue risk to taxpayers; even if it were to perform a useful social function, there is still a strong case  against  establishing it now. At a time when business confidence is at a low ebb, when fears of greater unemployment are already rife and when serious inflation is aggravated by excessive Government spending, to embark on yet another Government enterprise, to commit yet more public funds and nurture yet another nest of bureaucracy, is political and economic madness. 
That really sums up my feelings and the Opposition's feelings on this Bill, but it is in keeping with the Labor Party policy which was read out, I thought very properly, by my colleague  Senator Carrick  earlier in this debate. He referred to the ideological prejudices of the Labor Party. This Bill is quite in keeping with the philosophy of the ALP which seeks to exert socialistic control over finance, distribution and exchange. The Labor Party greedily looks upon the insurance industry, particularly the life assurance section, as a juicy plum ready to be eaten by it. That seems to be typical of the attitude of the Government of today. The life assurance industry provides long term security for millions of Australians. As I said previously, 8 million policy holders have a direct interest in these companies. These policy holders or shareholders have a vital interest in the development of Australia. 
I was referring to the mutual offices. 
They were partners in the development of Australia until this Government came to power. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  Senator Jessop,  I  think that if you were to pursue your speech we might find clarification of the point that  Senator Wheeldon  is trying to raise, but 1 hope that the opportunity will be given to  Senator Jessop  to be heard in reasonable silence. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I respect your judgment. I suggest that I am making the speech. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  That is the point which I am acknowledging. 
1 was about to say that the policy holders in these mutual companies are shareholders in the development of Australia. I believe that that is a fact. Until this Government came to office that was the fact. Now the development of Australia has slowed to a crawl. I believe it is almost stagnant at this stage. The investments of the insurance industry represent 10 per cent of the total capital formation in the private sector. The industry, including the superannuation funds, has assets of $ 1 5 billion which seems to me to be quite a substantial investment in Australia. It represents more than 20 per cent of Australian private institutions. 
Many petitions objecting to the establishment of the AGIC have been presented in the Senate. They were signed by hundreds of thousands of electors who object to the introduction of this Corporation. I notice that there was some miserable attempt by the Government to conduct a campaign to counteract this. Petitions were presented from 13 people here and 10 people there to support the Corporation. Public opinion polls have been carried out. 
It seems to me that the evidence is, as the Minister acknowledges, that a substantial number of Australian citizens- a majority- are against the proposal. I took part in a march in South Australia. 
-I am glad to know that the Minister was at least sufficiently interested to watch the television on that occasion and notice that I took part in that performance. 
He has been calling me the underwriter ever since. I am not ashamed to be associated with people in this industry. They have done so much for Australia. The Minister tends to deride these things. I do not lie down in the street, as the former Treasurer did the other day in an attempt to regain his popularity among the people of Australia. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I  think you should direct your comments to the Bill, if you do not mind. 
I was describing my involvement in what I believe to be a genuine - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I had hoped that your remarks had some relationship to the Bill and that you would tie up those comments to the terms of the Bill. If not, desist from that line and return to the Bill, if you do not mind. 
I agree very happily with your suggestion,  Mr Acting President.  I was describing my happy involvement with a peaceful demonstration. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I think we have dealt with that point. I ask you now to return to the Bill, if you do not mind. I would appreciate it if honourable senators ceased interjecting so that  Senator Jessop  may be heard in silence. 
-With due respect,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I think I am devoting my attention to the Bill. This demonstration had something to do with the Bill. I was supporting the 12 000 people who were demonstrating against the actions proposed by the Government. It was very difficult for the Labor Party to attract a  speaker  on that occasion. In fact, several people refused to attend that demonstration. But I must pay some tribute to the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  who was prepared to front up and try as best he could to excuse the Government or to defend the Government for its action in wanting to introduce this statutory authority which threatens the employment of 50 000 insurance workers throughout Australia. 
I am sure that that is quite true as well. I shall indicate to the Senate one or two aspects that I believe have been ignored by the Government. The Minister confidently suggests that he can set up the Australian Government Insurance Corporation at a cost of about Sim. He suggests that that is all that is required to introduce this bureaucratic government instrumentality. I suggest that his estimate would be sadly amiss and that the cost of establishing such an organisation would be far greater than he suggests. The cost of the necessary systems and computers alone would exceed the figure which the Minister has suggested. I suggest that a minimum staff of fifty would be required to introduce and establish this Corporation. The cost of that staff in one year would exceed the authorised capital that the Minister suggests is required. The Life Insurance Commissioner has estimated that if the AGIC were to obtain only one per cent of new ordinary sums assured it would require a fund of $ 18m to administer that business. Further, no proper feasibility study has been carried out which would enable the true cost and probable benefits of such a corporation to be assessed. 
I was interested in the attitude that was adopted by the trade unions that are associated with the insurance industry. As the Minister knows, or as he should know, they have changed their attitude to this measure. I should like to quote some decisions that were taken at various meetings which have been held in recent times. The following decision was taken at one meeting: 
That Federal Executive, having given consideration to the following factors: 
Decisions taken at meetings of members in all States on the matter of AGIC. 
Decisions taken by Branch Committees of Management in relation to AGIC. 
The failure of the Australian Government to take positive steps to convene a public inquiry on certain aspects of the operations of the proposed AGIC as requested in the Federal Executive resolution (No. 83/ 75) of 14 April 1975. decides that the Federation shall adopt a position of opposition to the formation of the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
Federal Executive further notes that the legislation to establish an AGIC has already passed the House of Representatives and resolves to take all possible steps to ensure that, if an AGIC is formed, the interests and employment prospects of AISF members are fully protected. 
In addition, Federal Executive calls on the Australian Government and the insurance industry to urgently examine ways of protecting the Australian people against loss arising from catastrophe and natural disaster. 
That is just a summation of the views of the trade union movement on this Bill. It indicates quite positively to me that the trade union movement is opposed to the Bill. 
I do. As a matter of fact, earlier in my career I was a member of the trade union movement. I know something of the machinations of the trade union movement. The Government has placed great store on the question of natural disasters, and I must say that that question gives me some concern, too. I share the view of the  Deputy  Lender of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  who said that we will support responsible measures taken by the Government alone or by the Government and the industry in co-operation to provide insurance cover for losses which are not now recoverable by commercial insurance. In every real sense, the 
Queensland flood and the Darwin cyclone disasters have highlighted the deficiency which now exists. 
I acknowledge, as does the Opposition, that there is a national need for government involvement, but the legislation before the Senate goes far beyond the boundaries of national need. In fact, it uses in a quite cynical way the concept of national need as a lever to justify government participation in all forms of commercial insurance, general insurance, life insurance, superannuation and reinsurance. The Minister must be aware of the contribution that has been made by the insurance industry with respect to natural disasters in the past. For example, for the Adelaide earthquake in 1954, $10m was paid out by insurance companies in South Australia. For the Hobart bushfire tragedy in 1967, $15m was paid out by the private insurance companies. The private insurance companies paid out $3m for the earthquake in Western Australia in 1968, $5m for the Victorian bushfires in 1969, $25m for the Townsville cyclone in 1971 and $90m for the Brisbane floods in 1973. They have already paid out $220m for the cyclone in Darwin in 1 974, and it is suggested- the Minister will know this as well as I do- that probably the eventual cost will be $230m. 
The honourable senator is quite right. This question involves the Darwin Reconstruction Authority that has been established. It has been inert, inactive and demonstrably inefficient, in my opinion, with respect to the rehabilitation of Darwin. 
I am not suggesting anything; I am just stating the facts. We have heard a lot about reinsurance, foreign investment and that sort of thing. But the facts surrounding the Darwin cyclone are that approximately 85 per cent of the $230m that will be paid out by the private insurance companies will be recouped from reinsurance companies overseas. I think that is a commendable thing and it shows the business-like approach of private insurance companies in Australia that they are able to attract no less than 85 per cent of foreign capital to deal with the disastrous situation in Darwin and only 1 5 per cent of the money has to be found from within Australia. I know in his heart the Minister agrees with me, that this is good business to attract money from overseas to pay our own natural disasters. 
I suggest that the Government ought to look at the proposition that has been put forward by the private insurance companies in Australia. They are prepared to co-operate with the Government in this respect and to enter into what would amount to a partnership with the Government to overcome this problem. I cannot see anything wrong with the proposals that they have put forward.  Senator Cotton  referred to this earlier in the debate, and I endorse what he said. I condemn the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation and the Government for not paying sufficient regard to the suggestions put forward by the insurance companies. I respect the delicate position that the Minister occupies at the present time. I know him personally and I believe that in his heart of hearts he has some compassion and some concern for the economy of Australia. I wonder what pressures have been brought to bear upon him to refuse to go to the insurance companies and say: 'How can we get out of this mess? How can you help us?' 
I see that what I say excites the Minister's interest to a hysterical degree. I hope that he will pay regard to the fact that we are going to reject this Bill. I feel sorry for him; he has an ideology with which I do not agree. 1 suggest that after we throw this Bill out he ought to go to the insurance companies and work out some proper, respectable and economic way of dealing with national disasters. I would support such moves. I wish him luck if he cares to follow my advice in that regard. I totally support the Opposition in rejecting this Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) How many motor vehicles, trucks, vans, etc are held and awaiting disposal by the Central Storage and Transport Authority in South Australia and the other States. 
What is their accumulated value to date, by States. 
What is the method of disposal. 
By whom are the vehicles disposed and what is the estimated reserve price of the vehicles held. 
Are these vehicles disposed of monthly; if not, why not. 
What is the method of purchasing new motor vehicles, trucks, vans etc and from whom are they purchased. 
Is preference given to Australian motor vehicle manufacturers on a rotation basis. 
How many new motor vehicles, trucks, vans, etc are currently held by the Authority in South Australia and the other States pending their transfer to other Departments. 
What is the length of time new and used vehicles are kept in store pending disposal or transfer to Departments. 
I present the following petition from 1892 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
. Shrink the flow of funds to the private sector. 
Add to the Taxpayers burden. 
Trade unfairly. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 citizen of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Nationalize the Insurance Industry. 
Increase bureaucratic control over the Nation's financial resources. 
Lead swiftly to total socialization and complete subjugation of all the citizens to the State. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate reject completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 1 citizen of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Nationalize Insurance. 
Accelerate the growth in ratio of Public Servants to others. 
Destroy private initiative and corporate enterprise. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate reject completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition from 2 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
That while there is a need to establish in Australia a Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation, for property damage and other losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established as in other countries, using the medium of the existing private enterprise insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October 1 974. 
That no reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office (other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurance and Australian Government competition with private enterprise) have been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45 life assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition from a Government Office would only be harmful. 
That the insurance industry is already faced with: 
the effects of inflation, 
b) increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already in train or in prospect by the government, e.g. the National Compensation Bill, a National Superannuation Plan and improved Commonwealth Public Service Superannuation. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than the $2 million initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed will be allocated ) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition from 27 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: . 
Destroy the Free Enterprise Insurance Industry, and thereby 
Jeopardize the livelihood of not only those who work in the Industry itself but countless others from almost every trade and profession who depend upon the Industry or upon finance from the Industry for their living, and 
Lead to mass degradation of a large cross section of the Nation 's workforce. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate reject completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the following petition from 346 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
. Cause the loss of jobs and future prospects of employees and agents of the private Insurance Industry throughout Australia. 
Compete unfairly with private insurers. 
Require large taxation subsidies for a lengthy period. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 300 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
. Nationalise the Insurance Industry. 
Make for mass unemployment in the Insurance Industry. 
Greatly increase taxation. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate reject completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 53 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Nationalise the Insurance Industry. 
Reduce the flow of funds to Industry and Commerce from the Private Sector and increase their dependency on Government finance. 
Endanger the economy by undermining confidence in Industrial and Commercial Company Shares and by thereby causing share prices to tumble. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate reject completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 39 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Lead to the nationalization of the Insurance Industry. 
Divert a substantial flow of funds from the private to the public sector. 
Depress the private sector still further and create unemployment both within the Insurance Industry and elsewhere. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 49 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will nationalize the Insurance Industry: 
. Causing widespread unemployment, 
Stirling freedom of choice and virile competition, and 
Making mendicants of former Industry employees and policy-holders alike. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate reject completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the following petition from 224 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
Our concern that the proposed Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975 does not serve the best interests of the Australian Public. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should not assent to the proposed Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1 975. 
Alternatively, your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should not assent to the proposed Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975, without first referring the proposed Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975 to a Parliamentary Committee which Parliamentary Committee would hold a Public enquiry into the proposed Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975 and accept submissions from interested parties and report to the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate with recommendations. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that the Australian Golf Union Council recently voted unanimously to send a team to South Africa in November- in company, of course, with teams from many other countries- but decided not to proceed because of opposition from the Australian Government? Does the Minister know that there are representatives of the black population on the South African Olympic Games Council and that in golf tournaments in South Africa the number of black Africans who play is higher than the number of black people who play in golf tournaments in the United States of America? In view of the South African Government's policy which is encouraging integration in sport, and of the obvious desire of Australian golfers to send a team to play in that country, will the Australian Government give its approval for the visit? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that a Supreme Court libel action involving two professors of zoology was settled out of court in Adelaide on 3 June 1975. 
Is the Minister also aware that the University has agreed to pay the reasonable costs of both professors and that this is estimated as being more than $20,000. 
Does the Government intend to allow universities to meet the bills for private libel actions. 
Are there any other instances where Australian universities have paid such personal legal costs; if so, what are the details. 
-Is the Minister for Labor and Immigration aware of the imminent lay-off of 4500 workers at Chrysler Australia Ltd at Lonsdale and Finsbury in South Australia, due to a Vehicle Builders Union strike at No Sag Springs, Geelong, and the consequent inability to obtain supplies of seat springs? I also ask whether the Minister is aware that the  Deputy Chairman  of the Chrysler organisation,  Mr R.  C. Rainsford, has said: 
It is only a matter of time before other shortages will make it impossible to continue our assembly operations. 
In view of the critical outook for Chrysler in South Australia and for its 4500 assembly workers, can the Minister say what has been done to overcome the difficulties in Geelong? Can he report as to the progress in this regard? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation been drawn to conflicting statements made by the former Minister for Housing and Construction,  Mr Les  Johnson, and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development,  Mr Uren,  concerning the nomination of a representative of the Returned Services League on the board of the Australian Housing Corporation. Is he aware that  Mr Johnson  announced in  Hansard  on 4 
March this year a firm commitment to provide on the board of the Corporation a representative of the Returned Services League so that the interests of ex-servicemen would be effectively safeguarded? I ask also whether he is aware that on 19 August, in an answer to the shadow Minister for Housing,  Mr McLeay, Mr Uren  said: 
The Government has no commitment in this respect. The nomination of the Returned Services League of Australia was considered by Cabinet. It made its decision. At no time was there any commitment by the Government to the RSL. 

 Mr Uren suggested that that was 'a falsity'. Can the Minister inform the Senate which statement was correct? If  Mr Uren's  statement was correct will the Minister take action to see that the RSL is represented on the Corporation to protect the interests of ex-servicemen? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Do the Minister and the Government still agree with the compulsory collection of student organisation 's fees from students at every Australian University; if so, for what reasons. 
What appeal mechanisms are available to students who do not wish to join university student associations. 
What specific appeal mechanisms are available at each university to such students. 
Is there any transgression of personal civil liberties and any inconsistency in (a) the Government 's 'evenhanded' approach to the Middle East, and (b) the Government's support of total compulsory membership of the Australian Union of Students and therefore of the revolutionary Palestinian Movement. 
Did Australian university students in 1974 reject, by a majority of approximately 80 per cent, proposed support by the Australian Union of Students for the revolutionary Palestinian Movement. 
If the answer to (5) is in the negative, what was the case. 
Does the Minister see any fairness in students being forced compulsorily to support the revolutionary Palestinian Movement, with Government assistance, when they voted overwhelmingly to reject support for that Movement. 
Has the Minister and the Government made any endeavours to initiate the necessary legislative and other steps to make membership of university student associations voluntary; if not, why not. 

 - Senator Poyser's speech was typical of that of members of the Labor Party during this debate. They have to resort to personal attacks on people. 
-I heard  Senator Poyser  denigrate the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  That was typical of the low strategy employed by members of the Government and their supporters during this debate. I deplore it and frankly I am disappointed in  Senator Poyser.  In a moment I will refer to a part of his speech with which I agreed. For the honourable senator to denigrate the National Country Party as he has done tonight purely and simply indicates that the Government has a very guilty conscience. When this Government took over from the partnership that had run this country for 23 years the inflation rate was less than 5 per cent. The policies adopted by the former coalition government, the partnership, served to elevate the rural industries to a high status and to a level which contributed very greatly to the economy of this country. This Government succeeded in destroying that situation in a matter of two or three years by poor and absolutely unpardonable administration. 
I want to get down to one part of  Senator Poyser's  speech with which I agreed. I refer to his remarks about overseas posts. I fully endorse that constructive part of his speech. I think it is disgraceful that we should allow $86m to be spent on overseas posts without some form of scrutiny of the plans. With respect to the Public Works Committee, I think  Senator Poyser  - 
I am a member of that Committee and that is why I support what  Senator Poyser  said. I thought he made a useful contribution. He mentioned that extensions costing $ 15m are to be carried out to our embassy in Japan. He also mentioned that $ 19.2m is to be spent on an embassy and flats in Paris. These are large sums of money and they ought to be scrutinised by a committee of this Parliament. I think it appropriate that the Public Works Committee should be responsible to look at these things. 
I believe there is some merit in that suggestion. All honourable senators who have travelled overseas and visited our embassies will recognise that people here in Canberra who design these buildings do so without real knowledge of the conditions which exist in other countries and therefore may well make mistakes. For example, I visited the Australian Embassy in Manila last year and the bedrooms were like little dog boxes. In a country like that you need ventilation. I think one has to inspect these houses to appreciate the conditions in which people live. I think there is great merit in a committee visiting these countries to examine the conditions that prevail. 
-I believe that is so. I think that on the last occasion when we debated the Public Works Committee Act in this House I mentioned the need to look at statutory authorities. An extraordinary amount of money is being spent by these bodies without the expenditure receiving proper scrutiny by this Parliament. It is obvious to me that the Public Works Committee ought to look at this matter. I recall that  Senator Wright  was one who advocated this extension of the Public Works Committee activities on that occasion. I referred to the National Capital Development Commission which had spent $98m in the preceding year without examination by the Public Works Committee. I think that if random selections were made by the Committee of various departments and statutory authorities, including overseas posts, there could well be a deterrent to departmental excesses which would assist in economies and I believe economies are needed in those areas. 
Getting back to the Budget, the subject matter of this debate, I suppose there are a few people who would say that they will receive some benefit from personal taxation concessions. If one considers the case of an average wage earner on about $8,000 a year, with a dependent wife and 2 children, one of school age, that man will benefit on the face of the Budget by about $2 15 a year. A man of the same marital status on $15,000 a year could say, perhaps, that he will save about $377 a year. Of course, that is until he puts the microscope over the Budget and realises that if a man happens to enjoy a glass of beer and has 4 glasses of beer after work- I think that would be a reasonably average intake for a strong, hard-working man- they will cost him an additional 80c a week. If he smokes a couple of packets of cigarettes a day, they are going to cost him an additional 84c a week. 
I agree with the honourable senator, but it is not possible to persuade the average working man in this country, or in fact a lot of other people, that smoking is a health hazard. I recognise that it is and I think  Senator Mulvihill  does too. Nevertheless, in spite of what we try to do to discourage such people from smoking they will do it, and it will cost the average person at least 84c or $ I a week extra. If a man buys a few bottles of beer to drink over the weekend that will cost him another 60c. If we look, too, at the postal charges, the petrol increases, and the additional pharmaceutical charges that have been suggested we will see that these tax concessions, reductions or rebateswhatever they are called- will be quickly eaten away. 
I suppose the most frightening aspect of this Budget would be the anticipation of the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  that wages in Australia will increase by about 22 per cent. This is significant because it implies a very serious situationthat the income tax also will rise by about 40 per cent. I thought that  Senator Wright  and others pointed out very clearly just what revenue is being raked in by the Government through taxation. I refer to a point which was highlighted by  Senator Wright  recently, that is, that pay as you earn taxation revenue will increase from $6,07 lm last year to an estimated $8,683m this year, an increase of nearly 30 per cent or $2,6 12m. It seems to me that this Government is reaping a colossal harvest from personal taxation and since coming to office has squandered much of this in a headlong rush to develop a welfare state. I submit that this is being done at a tremendous cost to the private sector. 
Last year after wages and taxes were paid- I am glad that  Senator Davidson  agrees with me- the private sector lost no less than $500m. Probably the Government is very proud of this. We certainly feel very strongly about it. As many as 3000 small firms went out of business last year. I think this is an indictment against the present Government. I was interested in the editorial appearing in the  Australian  on 3 September, which described the interdependence of small businesses and large corporations. It referred to the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, a firm that is not thought very highly of by the Government. The article stated, in part: 
This interdependency has been brought home by two reports. BHP says that its performance in the first few months of this financial year has been 'disappointing', with falling sales leaving the company with $417.9 million worth of steel on its hands- an increase of 47.6 per cent. 
This is where the small dependent businesses have suffered indirectly. Another part of this article states: 
A survey by the  Australian,  also published yesterday- 
That was 2 Septembershows  that at least 3000 firms, mostly small, have gone out of business this year. They are not, of course, all connected directly or indirectly with BHP, but clear links exist. Many of the failed firms were in building and construction, and it is the slump in that sector which did most to cause the collapse in the stainless steel market that is of such concern to BHP's directors. 
The interdependence of big and small businesses is obvious. The thousands of small Australian firms, often described as the lifeblood of a competitive mixed society, comprise much of BHP's domestic market. When liquidity and confidence fail them, when independent ownermanagers find themselves earning no more than a salary equivalent, the hurt they feel is quickly reflected in the BHP board room. 
The editorial goes on to explain the pain caused to these people, having gone up to the top then to go down to the bottom. It describes as well how the small businesses prosper while the big corporations prosper. It points out that an economy measure which BHP had to adopt with respect to maintenance caused supporting industries to be put out of work. 
This is indicative of the way in which  Senator McLaren  and his colleagues have failed the business of Australia. They do not believe that profits are important and this is where they have got into so much trouble. They have written about $ 1,600m worth of treasury notes this year to try to get themselves out of their economic dilemma. I think that when we were in government $ 100 m worth of treasury notes was considered to be an extraordinarily high amount when we had to resort to such a course of action. Government senators have no right to question the businessmen who dare to run their businesses at a profit. The Government is a classic example of incapability to run anything at a profit. 
I should like to suggest to the honourable senator that if he were interested in the working people of Australia he would be interested in the private sector making a profit. Last year 140 000 jobs in the private sector were lost because of the disincentives and the disregard that the Government has imposed upon the private sector; during the same period no fewer than 70 000 jobs were created in the public sector. That is why we on this side of the House suggest that the Government's business management is haywire. Such evidence demonstrates the 
Government's complete incompetence to run the business of this country. 

 - Sir Robert Menzies has nothing to be ashamed of. He succeeded in bringing this country to a very high level of economic stability. Not only that, he was successful in bringing our image overseas to a very high level. This has been effectively destroyed by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  He goes overseas, insults the United States of America and makes flambouyant statements. I believe he is a disgrace to Australia. Forgive me,  Mr President,  for being distracted by my colleague from South Australia. He succeeds sometimes in getting under my skin. I am glad to say that in responding to his remarks I can point out a few of his own irresponsibilities. 

 - Senator Young makes a very wise interjection. Among the 3 000 firms that I mentioned were many building firms. This is of very great concern to members on this side of the House. I should like to refer briefly to the current housing situation. I suppose it is fitting to remind honourable senators opposite of one of the hundreds of promises given by our Prime Minister. In a radio broadcast on 5 June 1972 he said: 
We intend through our program of land, housing and interest rates, to reduce the average cost of home ownership by between $4,000 and $6,000. 
I have seen no evidence at all of this. In fact, I think the converse is true; that is, that housing costs have increased by at least that amount. Outlays for housing in this Budget have been reduced by $69. lm, or approximately 10 per cent of the actual expenditure on housing last year. The reduction in housing outlays will affect directly low income earners, the underpriviliged and most of those whose interests the Labor Party claims to represent. 
On 9 July this year the new Minister for Housing and Construction,  Mr Riordan,  addressing a branch of the Real Estate Institute of New South Wales, stated that the Prime Minister had also indicated to the States that the Government would maintain at least the same level of expenditure under the States housing program as in 1974-75. Advances to New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia certainly are unchanged, but the advance to Queensland has been reduced by $ 12.8m and the advances to Western Australia and Tasmania have been reduced by $4m each. On the basis of last year's completions and allocations and allowing for a 20 per cent inflation factor- which I think is a conservative estimate- the loss in dwellings as a result of the Budget reductions will number 2000 in the case of the State housing authorities and 4500 in the case of the low income home builders. The total housing commencements currently are averaging 10 000 a month, which is 4000 a month less than the figures for the previous 2 years. In previous years the industry has demonstrated a capacity to produce about 160 000 homes in a full year, but the accumulated shortfall of dwellings by the end of December this year is expected to be about 80 000. A half-year's production has already been lost and many contractors and tradesmen will never return to the industry. Average employment in the building and manufacturing support industries normally is 20 per cent of the total average employment. It follows that of the total Australian work force 50 000 people are at present unemployed in those industries. The availability of accommodation will become even tighter. The Budget will not alter at all the inflationary situation in the housing area, and it will produce more unemployment and further hardship to the people of Australia. 1 now turn to the rural sector which, I think, will be among the hardest hit by the provisions of this Budget. It would be as well to remind Government senators of another statement by  Mr Whitlam  in 1972. He said: 
A Labor government will ensure the economic viability of primary industry with the emphasis on financial stability, security and confidence in the future. 
I think that is about the biggest laugh of all. 
I think it is a big laugh, because what has happened since Labor came to office is that no sector has been more adversely affected by Labor's policies than has the primary industry. The removal of the superphosphate bounty- information in respect of which this Government has chosen to use in a despicable way in recent times- the removal of taxation incentives for soil conservation, water conservation, pasture improvement and plant investment, and the inflation which is raging in this country and is being fanned effectively by this Government illustrate just a few of the impositions that have been applied to this important industry. I think this Budget king hits the people living in country towns and the farming areas of Australia. It was bad enough when postal and telephone charges were increased by up to about 80 per cent in some areas- the country people will be among the main ones who will be hurt by those imposts- but above all I think the fuel price increases will cause the most hardship to country people. The Government, in my view, should never have discontinued the fuel equalisation program, which was of great benefit to people living in country areas and in particular the remote areas of Australia. 
It depends on what  Senator Hall  is talking about. He has probably been sucked in by the Labor Party's propaganda. I thank him for the interjection. It will enable me to enlighten him on this matter. If the honourable senator is talking about the misconception which arose during the election campaign when he was elected to Parliament, I think that if he studies the statement which was made he will get a different view of what was intended. I believe that  Senator Hall  will agree with me when I say that the fuel price increases will be very damaging to country people. I suggest that the Government could well consider waiving the additional excise on fuel used in operating farm machinery such as tractors and so on. I think that would be some recognition of the importance of the rural industry to Australia and the need to do something to revive it from its present disastrous state. I also think that some consideration ought to be given to reintroducing the superphosphate bounty, which I believe would be of great help. 
I would also like to refer briefly to the increased air navigation charges, which again have placed a burden on the third level aircraft operators. These increases will create a problem for many of these operators and I would not be surprised if many of them went out of business as a result of the increases. They also have been hit by other costs. I understand that air navigation charges amount to about $1,900 a year on an 8- passenger aircraft and about $1,000 on a 5- passenger aircraft. These increases are estimated to be between 15 and 20 per cent. These increases, in addition to other costs which have risen substantially over the last 12 months, are unfair to those aircraft operators. Pilots' salaries, taking into account annual leave and so on, have increased over the last 12 months by 28 per cent; clerical salaries by 24 per cent; engineers' salaries by 33 per cent on average and fuel costs by 14 per cent. I understand that the cost of spare parts increased by 10 per cent in July this year and further increases are expected very shortly. I am concerned also about the effect the increase in the price of fuel will have on the operations of the Royal Flying Doctor Service. I mentioned ' this matter last year in my speech on the Budget, which also increased air navigation charges. At the moment this Service, probably more than any other, is suffering as a result of inflation, the increased fuel costs and the navigation and postal charges that have been imposed by this Government. I recognise that last year the Federal Government gave $2. lm to the Flying Doctor Service over a 3-year period to assist in running this essential service for the people who live in the outback. I am concerned that, unless something further is done to assist this Service, it will be unable to continue to operate its 22 aircraft throughout Australia and will be in a very difficult position in respect of employing its 1 1 full-time doctors and about 130 full-time ancillary staff in all the States. It seems that the Government can find extraordinary amounts of money for Medibank but its appropriation in this area indicates to me that it is completely disregarding and discriminating against the people who live in the remote parts of Australia and who rely on the services of the Royal Flying Doctor Service of Australia. 
I had not noticed that. I suggest that  Senator McLaren  may well take notice of what I have said and try to do something to assist the people at Coober Pedy, Andamooka, Oodnadatta and other places who rely solely on this service for their medical treatment. Of course the honourable senator blithely disregards these things and seeks to introduce another subject to distract the Senate from the guilt which he has with respect to this matter. 
-That is an excellent idea. I think  Senator McLaren  and his colleagues should urge the Cabinet to give serious consideration to increasing assistance to the Royal Flying Doctor Service when it meets the Government in January next year. I want to refer to the fishing industry for a few moments. I suggest that in South Australia it will be affected if the Government proceeds with the decision which was foreshadowed some weeks ago in relation to the mercury level in fish. I realise that the Government acted on the advice of the National Health and Medical Research Council whose findings were made in 1970-71. The Council believed that it was acting in a proper manner. If the Government proceeds with that recommendation I fear that many fishermen in South Australia will, as a result, suffer financially. I know that the Victorian Government has seen fit to establish 0.5 parts per million as a standard for mercury in fish. I believe that that is a retrograde step. There will be a damaging effect on the fishing industry of Australia. I have written to  Mr Hamer  asking him to review that decision in the light of more recent scientific and medical evidence. I forwarded to him and to the Prime Minister a copy of a report which was made recently in South Australia by a medical biologist. I add that before he compiled this report and made his inquiries overseas he was of the view that one part per million of mercury was a reasonable proposition. Having checked with Sweden, Japan, Norway, Canada and other places like that and having gone into the matter in a scientific way he decided that one part per million was quite safe. I know that the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  who is at the table at the moment recognises that this is a serious matter for South Australia. I know that the Premier of South Australia has made representations on this matter. The South Australian Cabinet not long ago reduced the level of allowable mercury in fish from 5 parts per million to one part per million. I have received a reply from the Prime Minister in response. to representations I have made. He said that he has deferred a decision pending further examination by the Minister for Science  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and other Ministers concerned in this matter. 
It was 5 parts per million as the acceptable level in South Australia until a few months ago when the Government decided to reduce the level to one part per million. I believe that Italy accepts 7 parts per million as not being a health hazard. I know of 2 deaths which have occurred as a result of mercury poisoning. Fish, contaminated in that way, was ingested. 
I can understand that too. These deaths were as a result of chemical industrial pollution in Minymata and other parts of Japan. There is no other evidence to support the contention that one part per million is a health problem. 
If the honourable senator studies the World Health Organisation recommendations he will find them interesting because one part per million is acceptable. Usually, a sample of fish is taken. If 5 fish in a sample of twenty-five demonstrate a mercury level of one part per million that becomes a suspect area and the matter is gone into a little more carefully. If honourable senators look at this document they will find it interesting. I think they will find that if we establish one part per million it will be quite a safe standard. 
There is no evidence to suggest that. A lot of work has been done by the person to whom I referred as submitting the report. He is a medical biologist working in the Adelaide Hospital. He is an expert in contaminated food. As a matter of fact, I understand that his wife is on the staff of  Mr Don  Dunstan. So I suggest the Government ought to pay some regard to his report. The economic desperation of this Government has been revealed, I think, by the lengths to which it was prepared to go to raise funds from Arabian sources not long ago. I understand that the Government still would not be averse to pursuing that source of revenue. I also understand that Don Dunstan, who tried to wash his hands of the Federal Labor Government during the State election campaign, was anxious to get some money from overseas for his own purposes. He could not raise this money constitutionally. I understand that he certainly is by no means snow white in the whole exercise. He was anxious for money to be raised overseas by the Federal Government. It is quite obvious that the Federal Government attempted to do this through South Australian contacts. 
-I could tell honourable senators a bit about  Mr Karidis  too, if they wanted me to. 
I left that to other people whom I thought knew a bit about the matter. I am afraid that I did not have a chance to be here at that time. 
-Yes. I understand that the so-called gentleman attempted to whitewash  Mr Connor.  I suppose he was a little bit scared of his own position, in any case. I would have liked to ask him a few questions about his house building program around West Lakes. 
I might do that, but I am not going to go into that any further. I suggest that the Government is still on pretty sticky ground in that area. I remind the Senate of the technique used by communists in undermining Western civilisation. Firstly, they endeavour to disrupt the economy basis of Western democracy. It seems to be coincidental that this has happened in Australia during the last 3 years. 
I am talking about Australia which concerns me vitally. I think that a large amount of trouble with our economy is caused by disruption from communist dominated trade unions in Australia. I shall refer to an article which I received from  Mr J.  H. Leard, the managing director of Australian National Industries Ltd. I shall read a little of the article for the enlightenment of government senators. 
-Have you? Well, it is very interesting to listen to it. I have found it most interesting. The article is not so old. I think it was issued only last week. It states: 
A number of commentators have observed recently that many of the trends presently apparent in the Australian economy show a close similarity to the economic difficulties being experienced in Great Britain. 
This was referred to earlier in the debate by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. The article continues: 
Whilst there may be a number of causes of the current problems in Britain, there is a general agreement that one major cause of the difficulties in that country is the extent of industrial muscle being used by a section of a powerful Trade Union leadership which is not always concerned with, nor receptive to, the national interest. 
There is general agreement that the proper functioning of a Government/free enterprise mixed economy requires a responsible and co-operative attitude between the representatives of capital, management, labour and Government. 
I am interested in the honourable senator's comment. I think the Press ought to be concerned about these matters. I am certain that the members of the Press gallery will give this the appropriate currency in national headlines. The article states that there is general agreement. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! There are too many diversions and digressions. I ask  Senator Jessop  to address the Chair. I ask that we do not have so many interruptions. I call  Senator Jessop. 
I go on, despite the justified interruptions. The article states: 
There is a general agreement that the proper functioning of a Government/free enterprise mixed economy requires a responsible and co-operative attitude between the representatives of capital, management, labour and Government in order to achieve the maximum economic prosperity for all citizens in any country . . . 
There is, of course, a proper place in our society for a responsible Trade Union movement. 
I recognise that, as we all do on this side of the House. The article states further: 
We recognise this and support it. We also recognise that the vast majority of Australian employees and Unionists recognise the interdependence of labour, management and capital in the important process of creating the wealth of the Nation, lt is also clear that many of the Trade Union leaders in Australia today are responsible men. 
It is becoming increasingly clear that in this country, there is a powerful and vocal minority within the Trade Union movement leadership which is attempting to use that movement for radical political, rather than industrial, ends and, in this regard, is quite irresponsible in its disregard for the laws of the land governing industrial relationships. 
I think that the article which accompanies the preamble is worthy of incorporation in Hansard. It was written by a leading socialist intellectual,  Mr Paul  Johnson, for the  New Statesman,  of London, in which it first appeared on 16 May 1975. 
I am sorry that I did not hear  Senator Hall  quote it. I find it quite interesting that  Senator Hall  and I agree completely on the value of this article.  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to incorporate the article in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Jessop,  will you give me a brief outline of what you are seeking to incorporate in  Hansard? 
I am seeking leave to incorporate an article written by a leading socialist intellectual,  Mr Paul  Johnson. The article is entitled  A Brotherhood of National Misery.  It appeared in the  New Statesman  of 16 May 1975. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is it capable of being reproduced in  Hansard 
-There are no 4-letter words, or anything like that. I believe it is quite capable of being reproduced in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Jessop  is seeking leave to incorporate material in  Hansard.  I am satisfied that it is capable of being incorporated in  Hansard.  Is leave granted? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Hall,  I asked whether  Senator Jessop  was granted leave to incorporate material in  Hansard  and leave was not granted. Do you wish to address yourself to a point of order following the refusal of leave? 
asked the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Australian Government intend to close the Australian Tractor Testing Station at Werribee in Victoria: if so, where does the Australian Government propose to test roll-over protection safety frames and cabins. 
Who does the Australian Government propose should finance such tests. 
When the Australian Agricultural Council set up a committee of inquiry into the ATTS, why was evidence not sought from either the officer-in-charge of tractor testing at Werribee or the testing officer. 
Does the Australian Government expect the States of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, where tractor testing is required under State legislation, to set up safety testing facilities, although adequate facilities already exist at Werribee; if so, will the Australian Government provide finance to the States concerned for this purpose. 
Does the Australian Government not adhere to the view of overseas countries geared to primary production, such as Canada, that tractor testing is of vital importance and existing facilities ought to be expanded. 
Will the bounty paid to Australian tractor manufacturers be continued without an authorised tractor testing station. 
Has the Minister for Labor and Immigration seen a statement that is reported to have been made by the National  President  of the Communist Party of Australia,  Mr Laurie  Carmichael, who is also the Assistant Secretary of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, to the effect that the Government is applying unworkable guidelines with respect to wage indexation? Can the Minister suggest why  Mr Carmichael  should have made such a statement? Does the Minister agree with the oil industry observers who say that  Mr Carmichael  could well determine the future of the Government's wages policy? 
asked the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation upon notice: 
1 ) Have  Mr Justice  Toose and the staff assisting him received salaries and allowances since the expiration of the last authorised extension of time to submit the report on repatriation on 31 March 1975. 
If the answer to (1) is in the affirmative, by what governmental or parliamentary authority are such salaries and allowances being paid by the Government. 
Has the Government continued to pay rent for premises occupied by  Mr Justice  Toose and his staff in Sydney since 31 March 1975; if so, by what authority. 
What rental is being paid for the premises occupied by  Mr Justice  Toose and his staff. 
Will the Minister table in the Senate, (a) a complete list of staff made available to  Mr Justice  Toose, (b) a statement incorporating the total costs of the inquiry to date, including a list showing salaries and other expenses paid to  Mr Justice  Toose and his staff, and, in particular (c) the salary and other allowances paid to  Mr B.  J. F. Wright, Q.C. 
Will the Minister also inform the Senate as to whether the original terms of reference of the inquiry were extended by the present Government; if so, will he provide details. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Extension to the podium of Canberra Hospital- stage I Australian Capital Territory. 
The last time the Senate discussed this Bill was just prior to the winter recess. I think honourable senators will recall that concurrently the Railways Agreement (South Australia) Bill was being debated by the South Australian House of Assembly. In my speech on that occasion I indicated that the Opposition would support the Bill as it was the constitutional right of any State to request the Federal Government to take over its railway system or any part thereof. However, the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  will recall that at the time I suggested that my colleagues in the State Liberal Party Opposition would be quite justified in having some reservations about handing over the State rural railway system to Canberra. So it was not surprising to me that the Opposition in the South Australian Legislative Council sought to have the matter referred to a select committee. I believe this action was quite proper in the circumstances because the States have witnessed blatant attempts by this Government to weaken their position and to transfer more control to the central Government. So it is no wonder that the Opposition required much more information and guarantees with respect to this proposal. 
Although the Premier had no mandate from the people of South Australia to effect a transfer of the rural railways to the Australian Government, he used that request by the Liberal Party Opposition for the reference of the proposal to a select committee, which I believe was a quite logical request, as an excuse to hold a premature election. I have no doubt that he welcomed the excuse because he was embarrassed by the Federal Government in Canberra. The people of South Australia gave him a sound rebuke because there was a considerable swing against Labor on 12 July. The vote throughout the State in favour of the Government was about 47 per cent and on a preferred basis it was less than 50 per cent. No fewer than 2 country seats were gained by the Liberal Party- Millicent and Mount Gambier. I understand from residents in those areas that one of the reasons for the swing there and for the success of the Liberal Party was that the local attitude to the intrusion of the Aus.tralian Government into the rural railway services in those areas was adverse. The same would have applied to Port Pirie which has always been one of the blue-ribbon Labor seats in South Australia. 
The honourable senator misunderstands. Obviously I can excuse him because  Mr Wallis  is in the Federal Parliament. The seat of Port Pirie has always been a blueribbon Labor seat. Now we find that there is an independent member in place of the endorsed Australian Labor Party candidate.  Mr Dunstan  is now in a Stott situation and has to rely upon the whims and the fancies of his new  Speaker  to give effect to his legislation. I venture to suggest that the result of the election of 12 July reflected the thoughts of the South Australian people on the matter before the Senate tonight. 
In the House of Assembly debate last month the Leader of the Opposition,  Dr Tonkin,  said that the South Australian Government was selling the State's asset at a bargain price and pointed out that that will have a general effect on transport in South Australia, particularly road transport. He feels that this will be manifested in increased freight charges and that country people in South Australia will suffer most as a result. Last week I visited various parts of Eyre Peninsula. I went as far as Ceduna. A rumour is current in those parts of the State that after the Australian Government assumes responsibility for the rural railways the people living there will be forced to use that system and will be denied the right to choose private road transport for the carriage of their produce and supplies. It was pointed out to me that this would add considerably to their costs, particularly their costs with respect to the transportation of refrigerated foods. I understand that those transportation costs could treble if they have to use that railway system. I would like a categorical assurance from the Postmaster-General that the freedom of choice as far as transport is concerned will prevail after this railway transfer is effected. 
The South Australian Government will receive $10m before the date upon which this Agreement comes into force and the balance will be paid according to the Sixth Schedule on page 1 5 of the Bill. On looking at the debate on this matter in the House of Representatives I noticed that the Honourable Peter Nixon drew attention to the extraordinary interest rates set out for the repayment of the debt to South Australia up to July 2005. Apparently that is because of the variable commencement dates of the loans. I gather that the Australian Government will be taking over existing loans that were raised by the State Government. The Postmaster-General might care to elaborate upon that particular point for the benefit of honourable senators. The total financial commitment of the Australian Government is $ 134m, which is a quite large amount for the Australian taxpayer to find for this project in South Australia. 
I turn now to the subject of the administrative changes which will be necessary as a result of this railway amalgamation. I refer to a statement by  Mr Charles  Jones in South Australia not long ago. In the South Australian  News  of Wednesday, 20 August, he was reported as having said that South Australia would become the centre of the Federal Government's proposed national rail system. That, of course, has caused some uncertainty among the people working at Port Pirie, Port Augusta and Peterborough in particular. When I visited Port Augusta recently people were quite concerned that a significant number of Australian National Railways employees would have to move to Adelaide. I expressed the personal view that this would not occur. I feel that, on the contrary, there ought to be a steady expansion of railway activities in Port Augusta as a result of this Agreement. 
The Postmaster-General may recall that in my previous speech on this Bill I asked him where the headquarters of the railways would be located. I do not think he answered that question effectively. I suggest that the headquarters ought to be at Port Augusta as it seems to me to be the logical place for the centre of the national rail system. I have noticed that  Senator Laucke  expressed some concern about the possibility of the downgrading of the various railway workshops that are servicing the railway system in South Australia and that in his reply to a question asked by  Senator Laucke  on the subject on 3 September the Postmaster-General said: 
I do not know of any such proposals. The only matter which arose from the legislation concerning the transfer to the Australian National Railways of the South Australian railway facility, as the honourable senator will remember, was the question which I think had to be considered of the likelihood of the relocation from Melbourne to Adelaide of the headquarters of the Australian National Railways. 
I point out to the Postmaster-General that he mentioned in his reply to that question that Adelaide would appear to be likely to become the headquarters. In answering the question the Postmaster-General went on to say: 
I have not heard any rumours in relation to the capacity of the workshops. I think it is most unlikely that at present the capacity of any South Australian railway workshop - 
The Postmaster-General went on to say that he presumed that  Senator Laucke  was referring to the Islington facility-  will in any way be downgraded because of the new arrangements. 
The Postmaster-General went on to say that he thought that Islington would probably in fact achieve a higher percentage of activity resulting from the new arrangements. He then referred to the fact that it was his personal opinion that the Port Augusta workshops are in fact fairly restricted. He went on to say that attempts have been made to reach agreement on upgrading them but that agreement has not yet been reached. He said also that there has been some improvement there. The Postmaster-General went on to say. 
So I think that overall there is no possibility that any such downgrading might occur in respect of the capacity of the Adelaide facility. However, I shall direct the honourable senator's question to  Mr Jones  - 
I do not know whether the Postmaster-General has had an opportunity to clarify that matter. 
Apparently he has. I look forward to his further comment on that aspect. I am also concerned about the difficulties that might be presented as a result of the confusion with the dichotomy of the 2 railway administrations. On the one hand we have the South Australian metropolitan railway service, which will be owned by the State and administered by the State transport authority with State employees and on the other hand we will have the rural railways, which will be under federal administration with Australian Government employees. It seems to me that this will create some serious difficulties, particularly as the State authority also has to administer the Adelaide Municipal Tramways Trust. 
There are other areas of concern that I have in relation to this Bill. I refer to the definition that applies to the particular Bill that we are discussing. I understand that according to the definition railways' includes all land and so on - 
Yes, wharves. The definition includes all lands and, as  Senator Laucke  has reminded me, wharves and so on that carry railway lines and concludes with the words ' matters and things used, associated, or connected with or appurtenant to the railway system vested in the SAR Commissioner*. Of course, it has caused grave concern- I think quite properly- in the farming community in South Australia that this definition could place in jeopardy grain installations on railway property owned by the South Australian Co-operative Bulk Handling Ltd of which farmers are shareholders. They fear that their particular investment could be handed over to the Australian Government. It was with that in mind that the Honourable Arthur White, M.L.C., moved to exclude such land from the influence of this Bill. Unfortunately the amendment seeking to exclude such land and other amendments were defeated, regrettably with the support of the Liberal Movement. The value of these installations is currently estimated as being in the vicinity of $80m. The definition also includes wharves, as  Senator Laucke  has properly reminded me. A typical example of this is the grain exporting wharf at Wallaroo. A railway line runs alongside that particular facility. This raises some questions in the minds of local inhabitants as to whether they will be able to use this wharf as they have in the past or whether some restrictions will be placed upon them by the Australian Government. Some rural councils, of course, are concerned about the substantial rates paid to them by South Australian Cooperative Bulk Handling Ltd. I should like the Postmaster-General to assure me that equivalent ex gratia payments in lieu of rates will be paid to these councils which are dependent to quite an extent upon some of the installations to which I have referred. 
Clause 8 of the agreement refers to rates and charges. At the moment there is a favourable rate for the transportation of primary produce in South Australia. It is feared- I think, not without foundation- that this advantage could be lost by the Australian Government assuming control of the rural railways system. That is another matter on which I should like the Postmaster-General to give me his assurance that such favourable rates for transportation will continue. The agreement appears to give authority to the Australian National Railways Commission to introduce new services or to extend present road freight and passenger services, presumably with Australian Government law superseding any State law. Further to this it is feared that private enterprise would be at a competitive disadvantage, as sub-clause (5) of clause 13 of the Agreement frees the Commission from any fees, taxes or charges.I remember that when we last debated this measure in the Senate I asked the Postmaster-General a question about this. I do not think he really gave me any satisfactory answer. When I said 'competitive disadvantage' I was referring to the road taxes that are applied in South Australia to private road transporters. If the Commonwealth is going to take over the railway system I want the Postmaster-General 's assurance that these road hauliers are not going to be disadvantaged as a result. 
In summary, the inhabitants of South Australia are concerned, firstly, about the centralist control from Canberra of all transportrail and road- in that State under this agreement. Clause 10 of this Bill is the operative clause with respect to that matter. Secondly, concern is held by the primary producers of South Australia about the validity of the present agreement and the terms of future agreements involving Cooperative Bulk Handling Ltd installations on railway property. Finally, they are concerned about loss of preferential freight charges now existing and the possibility of closure of some country lines. I should like the PostmasterGeneral's assurance and comment on these particular matters. 
There are one or two points to which I should like to refer as a result of a perusal of the explanatory notes. I quote from page 3 of those notes, under the heading 'Clause 9- Application of State Laws': 
This clause relates to clause 2(2)(c) of the Agreement and overcomes difficulties created by section 52 of the Constitution concerning the application of State laws to Commonwealth Places. 
In the event that a State law purports to have effect in relation to railway land (a Commonwealth Place) after the commencement date but cannot have effect by virtue of section 52 of the Constitution, the law shall have effect pursuant to the Commonwealth Places (Application of Laws) Act 1970 as amended. 
Section 52 of the Constitution gives the Parliament exclusive power to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to places acquired by the Commonwealth for public purposes. 
This issue was brought out to me quite forcefully when I recently attended the Northern Local Government Conference in South Australia and the question arose with respect to the application of the South Australian Bushfires Act to railway lines taken over by the Commonwealth- or by the Federal Australian Government- under this particular agreement. I wrote to the  Chairman  of the Australian National Railways Commission with respect to this matter and he replied to me on 1 5 September in the following terms: 
Legal opinion obtained indicates that the Australian National Railways Commission would not be liable for any damage caused to a property by a fire started without any negligence on the part of the Commission or its employees. This is an exception to the normal rules which impose a strict liability where fire escapes from land and does damage. This is because the Commission has statutory authority to use the railway line, under the Australian National Railways Act, for railway purposes. 
It is not considered that the Bushfires Act, 1 960 - 
That is, in South Australia-  applies to the Commission. 
-That is quite true. But this illustrates some of the confusion. As a matter of fact,  Sir Magnus  Cormack raises a very interesting matter. I have received a complaint about a fire that occurred in that area only recently- I think in December last year. The person concerned is still negotiating with the  Chairman  of the Australian National Railways Commission with respect to damages that he believes ought to apply as a result of this particular fire. But  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has illustrated just how confusing it is. The letter from the  Chairman  of the Australian National Railways Commission goes on to state: 
It is not considered that the Bushfires Act 1960 applies to the Commission - 
This is what I want the Postmaster-General to consider very carefully-  and there is no other provision to assist a party claiming damage (such as section 99 of that Act) which could apply. 
Under the Statutory power afforded by the Australian National Railways Act, the Commission's liability for damage which occurs would not be absolute, but would be dependent upon negligence being proved against it or its servants. 
Claims in respect of damage caused by fires which are alleged to have started on the Commission's land and all available associated information are submitted to the Commonwealth Crown Solicitor's Office - 
This is the operative part of the letter-  in the State or Territory concerned, for legal opinion whether the outbreak of fire could be considered to be caused through negligence of the Commission or its employees. 
Although the incidence of bushfires alleged to have originated on the Commission's land has been slight on the occasions when legal opinion has indicated that the Commission (then Commonwealth Railways Commissoner) would be considered liable for fire damage through negligence, compensation has been made to claimants on the basis of fair valuation of damage as assessed by the Australian Taxation Valuer. 
That letter was written on only 15 September in response to concern that is felt by the people in South Australia who are associated with local government with respect to the application of State laws touching that agreement. 
I quote from page 12 of the explanatory notes, under the heading 'Clause 13 of the Agreement- - Services Associated with Non-Metropolitan Railways ': 
This clause relates to Principle 6- set out below. 
Services that are incidental or supplementary to or are operated in association with the railways are to be transferred to the Australian Government. 
The Commission will also be able to introduce new road freight and passenger services or extend existing services. 
In the event the Commission wishes to introduce new road passenger services which would normally require the approval of the Transport Authority, Australia or the Commission will similarly seek approval for the introduction of the service. In the event that the application is refused the matter will be referred to arbitration. 
This brings me to the question of the legality of the Agreement. Some legal authorities maintain that the South Australian Government does not have a legally enforceable agreement now and that it will not have one. They say that the Commonwealth cannot be compelled to carry out any of its promises. The authority for this proposition which has been cited by a prominent legal identity in South Australia - 
I am not going to mention his name. 
-That does not matter. The source of the information is beyond reproach. He has cited the example of the rail standardisation case which turned, among other things, on the 1907 agreement which South Australia made with the Commonwealth to hand over the Northern Territory on a specific agreement which included the building of the AdelaideDarwin railway from Oodnadatta and Pine Creek. When the Premier of the day,  Mr Tom  Playford, sued to compel the Commonwealth to honour its agreement he was met by 2 defences. The first defence was that it was only an agreement to make an agreement and, secondly, that the High Court had no jurisdiction because it was a non-justiciable matter. Some of the justices decided for the Commonwealth on one ground and some on the other ground, but neither group disagreed with the other group's reasoning. So the end result was the same in either case- a victory for the Commonwealth. The decision is usually treated in the textbooks as authority for both propositions. The first argument that it was only an agreement to make an agreement depends on the well known fact that any agreement such as this has to be carried on over a period of years. I hear  Senator Davidson  trying to interject. Have you read the judgment, Senator? 
-That is good. The honourable senator might like to reinforce what I say. This is a very important matter which ought to be reinforced by every honourable senator from South Australia. I repeat: The argument that it was only an agreement to make an agreement depends on the well known fact that any agreement such as this has to be carried on over a period of years. So the Government in carrying out the work had to appropriate public money each time for the new work. Of course this experience is not peculiar to the Liberal Party in South Australia. As honourable senators on the Government side will appreciate  Mr Ken  Bur.dolph the Labor member for the Legislative Council found out in his fight with the New South Wales Government that the courts have no power to compel any Parliament to do this or to agree at any specific time to do any item of work. So there has to be a subsidiary agreement each time to block in- to use the words used in the argument in  Mr Burdolph's  case- a new section ofthe agreement. Accordingly, it is only an agreement to make an agreement and unenforceable at law. 
-Is the Minister for Labor and Immigration aware that the Coober Pedy Progress Association was promised a grant of $40,000 by the Government under the Regional Employment Development scheme? Is he also aware that this Association made arrangements to purchase a building from Maralinga for reerection at Coober Pedy for community use on the assumption that the Government would honour its obligation to provide this finance? Is it a fact that the Department has now informed this body that the grant will not be forthcoming because the well has run dry? Can he say how many other organisations throughout Australia have been placed in a similar position which has created serious financial embarrassment for the organisation to which I have referred? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Minister has stated that recent studies have shown that the proportion of methyl mercury present in Australian fish varies from 46 per cent to 99 per cent of the total mercury present; if so, does the high proportion of methyl mercury occur only in certain species and do these species have total mercury levels. 
What was the most commonly occurring percentage of methyl mercury within the range of 46 per cent to 99 per cent. 
Have the studies referred to by the Minister been published; if not, when and where will they be published. 
Is the Minister aware that, although a considerable amount of knowledge of the human toxicology of mercury poisoning is available for use in establishing acceptable limits of dietary intake, much of this knowledge has come from studies of the Minamata and Niigata incidents in Japan, that is, from situations where gross pollution had occurred, and where other metal pollutants such as lead, copper and arsenic were also present and the possibility of a synergistic effect having occurred exists. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports from Finnish scientists who have studied the blood and hair content in fish consumers and have been led to conclude that the actual risk of mercury poisoning from fish seems to be remarkably lower than expected. 
Is the Minister also aware of the results of research published overseas which indicate that the toxicity of even comparatively high levels of naturally accumulated mercury in fish from non-polluted environments may be considerably modified and reduced by natural protective mechanisms in the fish, to the extent that Japanese scientists, working on the problem of mercury in fish, now consider such naturally occurring mercury to bc non-toxic as distinct from that occurring as results of high levels of pollution. 
Has any work been done in Australia to determine the actual danger to the population from eating fish containing mercury. 
Are any studies anticipated in view of the need to have a better understanding of the safety of the food being consumed by people in Australia. 
Is the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence aware of the concern expressed by the national  President  of the Exservices Action Association,  Mr Hunter,  relating to the storage and disposal of poison gas weapons used for experimental purposes during World War II? Has the Minister read the latest report in the Press yesterday in which a former Royal Australian Air Force sergeant,  Mr Alick  Stocker, claimed that during World War II a leakage occurred on an RAAF train carrying mustard gas in drums during a 100 mile journey in the Blue Mountains? I understand  Mr Stocker  was a chemical warfare instructor. He says that the mustard gas retains its deadly properties for decades. Is it a fact that the cargo on this train was stored in a disused tunnel near Glenbrook? Is the Minister aware also that  Mr Stocker,  who still suffers from gas injuries, stated that the last 100 miles of track to Glenbrook could still be contaminated? In view of the public controversy that has occurred since this matter was raised, will the Minister table in the Senate as a matter of urgency all defence and Commonwealth police documents and reports pertaining to this important subject so that honourable senators can be informed on it? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that his Department recently conducted a survey of people receiving unemployment benefits which revealed that over 30 per cent of these people were not entitled to receive this social welfare payment? Can the Minister say which area or areas were surveyed? Was the percentage indicative of the national pattern? What is the Minister doing to prevent what seems to me to be a continuation of a blatant abuse of taxpayers' funds? 
-Does the Minister for Agriculture propose to implement the $152m scheme to assist the beef industry in accordance with the plan suggested by the Industries Assistance Commission recently? If so, when is he likely to take some action with respect to that assistance? 
-Did the Leader of the Government in the Senate hear the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio program  AM  today in which he said that the Government is prepared for an election and in which the  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Hawke,  in his usual dulcet and endearing tones, said that the Australian Labor Party is not prepared for an election? Will the Minister inform the Senate which statement is correct? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Minister recall his answer to Question No. 544 asked by  Senator Jessop  concerning student organisations in which he said: ' I am not in a position to provide the honourable senator with the information sought in question (2),(3),(5)and(6)'. 
Why is the Minister not in a position to answer questions (2) and (3) which said: '(2) What appeal mechanisms are available to students who do not wish to join university student associations, and (3) What specific appeal mechanisms are available at each university to such students'. 
Recognising that universities, except the Australian National University, are creations of the Crown through the States and that the Commonwealth's role is financial, what Acts of the States and in particular which sections of those Acts relate to the compulsory collection of fees by universities for student organisations for every university in Australia, excluding the Australian National University. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as Minister representing the Treasurer. Has he seen figures released this week by the Australian Bureau of Statistics showing a major decline in local consumption and exports which has rocked the wine and brandy industry? Does the Minister now believe that the action of the Government in increasing excise and applying other imposts on the industry has had a detrimental effect? Is he aware of the particular damage this action has caused to the South Australian wine and brandy industry which is a major contributor to the economy and to employment in that State? 
I direct to the Minister for Agriculture a question which deals with the dairying industry and which is in 2 parts. Is the Minister aware of a judgment in a recent case involving milk produced and processed in Victoria and supplied for sale in New South Wales through sources other than the New South Wales milk authority? Can he say what effect this judgment will have on the orderly marketing of dairy produce in Australia? Secondly, has he knowledge of progress being made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its inquiry into assistance which may be required by the dairying industry resulting from reduced Government assistance? Can he say when the report will be presented? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Were conflicting statements made by the previous Minister for Housing and Construction,  Mr Johnson,  on 4 March 1975, and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, on 19 August 1975, concerning the nomination of a representative of the Returned Services League of Australia to the Australian Housing Corporation, if so, did  Mr Johnson  announce a firm commitment to appoint such a person and did the Minister for Urban and Regional Development deny this statement. 
If the Cabinet has decided against this proposal, will the Minister have the matter reconsidered so that the Returned Services League of Australia may be suitably represented on the Corporation to protect its members' interests. 
asked the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Australian dairy industry experiencing difficulty in disposing of its production. 
Has a satisfactory scheme of industry equalisation been agreed upon following the abandoning of the dairy industry bounty by the Government recently. 
Has the Industries Assistance Commission reported upon the Government's reference concerning the effect of the removal of the bounty, and Government assistance which may be required after 30 June 1976. 
Will the unilateral removal of table margarine production quotas in South Australia as from 1 January 1976 aggravate the problems of the Australian dairy industry; if so, what will be the effect on South Australian producers and manufacturers. 
In view of changed conditions in the industry, is it the intention of the Australian Government to abandon its plan to remove the margarine quota in the Australian Capital Territory on 30 June 1976. 
ls the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture aware of the very serious financial position currently facing the canned fruit industry in Australia? This subject has been raised on previous occasions by my colleague  Senator Laucke.  Will the Minister say what approaches have been made to the Government by the industry? What action has been taken by the Government as a result of the industry's representations? Can the Minister indicate when an announcement is likely to be made in regard to the Government's attitude to the industry's proposals? 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows similar questions that have been asked concerning the Regional Employment Development scheme. I have received many inquiries following the Minister's reply concerning the phasing out of this scheme from local government authorities and other organisations in rural and industrial areas of South Australia. Is the Minister aware that the Premier of South Australia has asked the Prime Minister to reconsider the decision to discount this scheme? Has the Prime Minister or the Treasurer replied to the Premier? If so, is the Minister able to give any details concerning this reply? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that employees of some departments have been told that their salaries will cease after their next pay and that some are in danger of being retrenched? Is it not a fact that he Government is assured of Supply until the ;nd of November and that the amount of money assured for the 5 months period to that date is 49 per cent more for Supply Bill (No. 1) and 1 10 per cent more for Supply Bill (No. 2 ) than for the same period last year? 
It is quite clear to me that anybody who read the report that has been produced by the Royal Commission on Petroleum would be anxious to have further inquiries made into the activities of certain people to whom we have referred this afternoon. I would have thought that the Special Minister of State  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  who has just resumed his seat, would have been only too anxious to clear the allegations that have been made, based on what I believe to be significant evidence if one cares to read the document to which I have referred. It is interesting to note the red faces of and the silence from Government senators during this debate. I believe it is a mark of their guilt in this whole sordid affair. Obviously they are condoning the practices of the Australian Council of Trade Unions in this ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd deal. In my opinion, the debate has highlighted again the path of deception that has been traversed by this Government ever since it came to office. The debate has compounded the deceit of the loan scandal and brought into focus the way in which the ACTU has behaved in this ACTU-Solo affair. I believe it is one of the reasons why  Mr Dunstan  put on the Pontius Pilate act during the last State election campaign and washed his hands of the Australian Labor Party. He did not want to be identified with a discredited Federal Labor government. 

 Mr Souter, a prominent member of the ALP, has claimed that he has been maligned by the interim report of the royal commission and that the Government has been whitewashed. Yet another scapegoat has been sacrificed on the altar of  Mr Whitlam  or the Government. The Commission's finding of deceit and misrepresentation by  Mr Souter  and other directors of ACTU-Solo relied substantially on evidence that the former Minister for Minerals and Energy and his Department had not been aware of a second supplementary agreement with respect to the purchase of crude oil. The Minister claimed that he granted approval for the sale of crude on the basis of the government approved price of $2.10 per barrel and that he was ignorant of the second arrangement which lifted the price to $5 per barrel. Where does the  President  of the ALP and Managing Director of ACTU-Solo,  Mr Hawke,  fit into this picture? This sordid situation is a repeat of the Whitlam-Connor overseas loans affair, lt is quite clear that if  Mr Hawke  were an efficient managing director he would have known about this deal. He is as much to blame as his co-directors, if not more so, I believe, and can be lined up with the Prime Minister in this regard because the Prime Minister is as responsible as  Mr Connor  for the loans affair. 
-I did. Reverting to the question of  Mr Hawke,  I draw the attention of honourable senators to that part of the transcript of  Mr Souter  's evidence which appears at page 4356. It reads: 
Did you relate your understanding of these matters to  Mr Kelty  in the executive offices of the ACTU and to the other directors of the company, ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd?Yes, I did. May I point out, too, that in the transcript it says, ACTU executive'. It should have said 'executive officers'. 
But you related to the ACTU executive officers and the ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd directors that that was your understanding of what you were entitled to do?- Yes. 
At page 4357 this evidence appears: 
Is it correct that you passed it on first to  Mr Kelty  and secondly to the executive officers of the ACTU and thirdly to the other directors of the company ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd your understanding of the Minister's requirements, is that right?- My understanding of what I considered was the requirement. 
Yes. It was in the context of you having passed on to these people your understanding of what were the Minister's requirements that the negotiations proceeded and the deal proceeded and the documents were drawn?- Yes. 
No one can tell me that  Mr Hawke  can escape the clear evidence that has been placed before us in this transcript. I believe that he has something for which to answer. As far as  Mr Connor  is concerned,  Mr Souter  has said in sworn testimony before the royal commission: ] strongly object and deny that any Minister of the Crown has been misled by the ACTU. 
When asked why we did not inform the Government of the second part of the agreement he said: 
Because as I indicated to you it was my firm impression in discussions with the Minister that the question of the sale of the crude was at the government approved price, and the commercial contract in relation to the refined products is a matter between the parties. 
When  Mr Fisher  put it to him that it was entirely misleading to write to the Minister without mentioning the fact that there was a supplementary agreement he said: 
No, I do not accept that it was entirely misleading at all because, as I repeat to you, my clear understanding of the concept and the basis of the sale of the crude was that the commercial sale was distinctly not a matter for government approval. 
When speaking on a television interview,  Mr Ian  Sykes,  chairman  of XL Petroleum Pty Ltd, claimed that the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  knew that ACTU-Solo was paying more than the Government fixed price for crude oil. He said that he had written to  Mr Connor  advising him of the deal and had received an oral reply from Labor M.P.  Mrs Child  to the effect that the Government had allowed higher prices to be paid in previous shipments. To simple laymen, such as myself, and I am sure to the electors of Australia, that is quite odd and I am quite sure that  Mr Hawke  and indeed  Mr Connor  ought to come forward and front up in relation to those matters to which we have referred today. 
I sum up by saying that it is quite clear from the debate that has ensued this afternoon that Opposition senators have put down clear irrefutable evidence that the whole deal ought to be gone into in far more detail. That is why we have brought on today a matter of urgency in these terms: 
That in the opinion of the Senate, the following is a matter of urgency: 
The need for further inquiry into whether: 
there was any agreement between the former Minister for Minerals and Energy and/or the Government and ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd to grant benefits or advantages contrary to the Government's indigenous crude oil policy to ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd. 
there was undue benefit, information or advantage given to ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd or to any of the Directors thereof. 
I believe that the Labor Party, the ACTU and this company of which  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Labor Party, is managing director have something more for which to answer. At this stage I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act to provide for the supervision by the Parliament of appointments by the Government to certain public offices and for other purposes. 
This debate has been rather tedious because this is the third time that the Senate has dealt with the matter. I think it is pretty important that we get back to basic issues with respect to the question of the Appropriation Bills and the course of action which has been taken by the Opposition. It seems quite clear that many red herrings have been drawn across the path of the electorate in this general matter. The Opposition has established quite clearly that there is no constitutional argument at all about this. The Senate has every right to defer the Budget, as it is doing at the present time. The Senate has the right to reject any Bills. There have been precedents in the past to which honourable senators on this side have referred, and in this course of action the Opposition has interesting company.  Mr Whitlam  and the then  Senator Murphy,  now  Mr Justice  Murphy, advocated the throwing out of a Liberal-Country Party Budget, and in fact pursued that course by voting against the Budget in the House of Representatives and by voting against the same measure in this chamber. Had it not been for the fact that a few Australian Democratic Labour Party senators did not agree with their course of action, undoubtedly the Leader of the Liberal-Country Party Government at that time would have had to go to the GovernorGeneral's residence and resign. Of course, this is precisely what the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  ought to do. 
I hope he does. Let me also make this point: Not only did the Australian Labor Party vote against the Budget in 1 970, but  Mr John  Gorton suggested on the television program  Federal File  in September 1973 that this was a proper course for a Senate to take if the government was running the country as badly as this Government undoubtedly is. Of course,  Senator Hall  is another interesting companion whom we have in this strategy. In July he suggested very clearly to the Senate that if he were the Opposition he would adjourn the Senate until 1 January 1976 and let the people decide the matter. That provides clear evidence of  Senator Hall's  political acrobatics, because he is now adopting an entirely different attitude. 
I want to take honourable senators back to the reason why this whole episode started. I have been consistent in what I believe to be correct. We have to go back to the enforced resignation of  Mr Connor.  This completely destroyed the credibility of the Government in my eyes. It destroyed the credibility of the Prime Minister because I suspect very strongly that he knew about this whole business. As the managing director of Australia, surely he knows or ought to know what his other directors are doing. If he did not, he should resign because he is incompetent. That really destroyed his credibility in my eyes, and that is why I have given my support to deferral of these measures in order to present to the Prime Minister the opportunity to go to Government House, hand in his resignation and ask for a double dissolution. 
I cannot tell what is in the mind of the Prime Minister. Anyone who could read his mind would be a complete genius, in my opinion, because he changes his mind so often. He has become known throughout Australia as a man who breaks promises, as a man who has encouraged his Party to plunge the nation into a situation in which we have unusually highalmost record high- unemployment. Certainly, the Government has created inflation that has caused distress to many sections of our community. References were made earlier to the pensioners. 1 am certain that the pensioners are not too happy about the grocery bills which they have to pay now and which increase month by month under the influence of this Government's mismanagement. 1 believe that the Government is employing scare and intimidation tactics throughout Australia. 1 wish to point to just one or two areas in which this has been brought to my attention.  Senator Maunsell  referred to the employees of some government departments being told that their wages will not be paid after the next pay. In fact, in Adelaide the Department of Administrative Services has informed members of its staff there that that is the case; that is, that the Department will have only $23 left after the next pay. This clearly indicates to me the inefficiency and mismanagement of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr Daly).  I have assured my secretary that if that is the case she will receive my cheque to ensure that her pay is guaranteed. 
Let me cite another example: A young woman telephoned me the other day. She was greatly disturbed because she had been informed that her husband would not receive any more money after the next pay and that 10 000 people were in danger of losing their jobs in the department concerned. She tried to contact  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia. She told me that she had tried again and again to get in touch with him but he was not available. She ultimately contacted the home of the new Attorney-General in South Australia,  Mr Duncan.  I am afraid that he was not home, but his wife said that it was quite true. She said that the department would not have any more money and that this woman's husband was likely to lose his job. This was the inference that came through. She suggested that this lady ought to gather together all the other wives who were being intimidated in this way and demonstrate against Opposition senators. That is the sort of scaremongering tactics that are being employed by the Australian Labor Party. 
Another thing that disturbs me particularly is that there are some members of the Government Party who have been running around Australia suggesting- they have been suggesting it even in the Parliament- that violence could occur. Only the other day I read a report of an address delivered by the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  to a gathering of railway workers during a lunchtime meeting. He suggested that violence would follow what is happening in Canberra. He suggested that it could reach the stage, as in overseas countries, at which senators could be killed in order to alter the balance of power. That is very amusing! I see that it tickles  Senator McLaren's  fancy. This is an example of the irresponsible actions that are being taken by honourable senators opposite. This certainly could encourage a violent minority into a violent demonstration at some time in the future. That, in my opinion, is irresponsible in the extreme. 
Let me return to dealing with the inefficiency of this Government. I could talk for an hour in listing what this Government has done to the people of Australia. It has created high interest rates. It has created in Australia a situation in which young people are unable to afford to build a home.  (Honourable senators interjecting) 
-Is the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation aware that accounts rendered for nursing home care of repatriation patients at some homes in Adelaide for the month of September have not been paid? In view of additional Supply granted earlier this year under Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and (No. 2) for increased funds over last year of about 49 per cent and 110 per cent respectively to 30 November, will the Minister explain why his Department is now unable to pay its way? Is the Minister in agreement with a statement made by the Prime Minister recently that the Government has funds sufficient to enable it to carry on until the end of November? Is the Repatriation Department unable to meet its obligations through overspending and lack of supervision or are payments being withheld to blackmail the public and the Parliament? Is this also an attempt to cover up for the Government's mismanagement of the Australian economy by falsely blaming the Opposition? Will the Minister bring to the Senate a statement certified by the Treasury as to the actual financial position of the Department at this date? Will he present such a statement to the Senate tomorrow? Will the Minister agree that if such a statement reveals either an unaccountable shortage of funds or unexpended funds for the payment of outstanding accounts he should resign? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. In view of substantially increased funds provided by the Senate in appropriations earlier this year for the period to the end of November, can the Minister say why the Department of Repatriation and Compensation is unable to pay nursing home accounts for repatriation patients for September? Is it a fact that the Prime Minister stated that the Government had sufficient funds to the end of November? Will the Minister table in the Senate this week a statement certified by the Treasury indicating the current financial position of his Department in order that the Senate can determine whether the Department is unable to meet its obligations through overspending or unnecessary spending? Does the Minister agree that if there are no funds this is indicative of the Government's economic mismanagement? If there are funds available, is there not a continuation of the scaremongering campaign which has been directed by this Government against various sections of the community? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Police and Customs. I ask the Minister whether he recalls that on 12 June 1975, the then Minister for Manufacturing Industry,  Senator James  McClelland, said: 
In any event we have the spectacle of  Sir Frederick  Wheeler conducting his secret investigations of  Mr Khemlani. 
The former Minister said that  Sir Frederick  Wheeler was unable to come up with anything damaging to  Mr Khemlani.  He further said: 
I may add, by the way, that the Government has made its own inquiries about  Mr Khemlani. 
He went on to say: 

 Mr Khemlani is a reputable member of the firm of Dalamal and Sons, an old Pakistani firm centred in London. 
I refer to the Minister's statement at question time yesterday in answer to  Senator Mulvihill: 
I am querying whether  Mr Khemlani  's statutory declaration is truthful. 
Is this an indication that the Minister has doubts about the veracity of his own Government in June 1975? In answer to the question yesterday the Minister said: 
From reading the statutory declaration, I think the thing which my Department must be interested in is the contradiction between what is stated in the statutory declaration and the statements made by My Karidis who was on oath when he appeared before the Senate. 
Does the Minister intend instructing his Department to make further inquiries with respect to  Mr Karidis? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the maritime union ban on shipping to Indonesia. Can the Minister report to the Senate what the state of that situation is at present? Is it a fact that the Indonesian Government has retaliated by banning cargoes to be carried to Australia? Does the Minister agree that trade unions should interfere with foreign, affairs matters such as this? Will he deregister those unions which are involved in these affairs that do not concern them and which are obviously dictating foreign policy to the Government? 
The Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications will be aware of the measures announced recently by the General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to effect necessary economies within that body. I refer specifically to the proposal to disband the Adelaide Singers. Is the Minister aware that this choral group is unique in Australia and has a national reputation as being of world standard? In view of the large number of representations which I have been receiving and the public concern expressed through the media, will the Minister ask his colleague in another place to discuss this matter with  Mr Duckmanton,  with whom I have already raised it, with a view to retaining this body of musicians who number, I think, only thirteen? 
-I should like to direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to the statement made yesterday by the Minister with respect to future arrangements at Woomera. The statement indicated that Woomera will be reduced to a care and maintenance level over the next 4 years, and I understand that this is consistent with a decision made by the former Government. When does the Minister expect a report to be made by the Australian Services who are currently examining the possible uses of the area for Army and Air Force tactical exercises? Will that report be made available to honourable senators? Is the Minister able to provide a list of all the categories of the 700 personnel who are to be transferred? Owing to the importance of the Defence Research Group at Salisbury and the need to preserve this expert unit, what does the Government intend doing to ensure that this important section of the defence establishment is kept occupied and intact? If there is insufficient defence work for these scientists, will the Minister investigate the possibility of using this source of expertise for research and development into domestic scientific matters such as solar energy and wind energy? 
-Where is that area? 
Might I make a brief reference to Angola, because when we are discussing the Indian Ocean we cannot ignore what has happened in Angola. The Soviet Union with its agents or lackeys, as it used to refer to anybody who supported the United States, has taken over Angola. I have been waiting to hear from some of my colleagues opposite some cries for self determination for the people of Angola because they are so keen about people in other parts of the world who may be under threat from non-communist powers. The takeover of Angola is an ominous sign. It is the first time in history that the Soviet Union has been able or willing to exert its influence in areas far removed from the Soviet Union. This situation can only increase instability in the whole of Africa and intensify the Soviet-Sino conflict. Already China is reacting to recent events. Angola will provide the Soviet Union with naval and air facilities in the South Atlantic from which it could threaten the Cape route. May I say also that perhaps we should be keeping our eyes on 
Mozambique, on the other side of Africa, which is closer to the Cape route and on the Indian Ocean. 
One wonders at the recent extraordinary emotional outbursts by  Mr Beazley  denigrating such bases and casting doubts upon their value, while the Russians obviously consider such bases and facilities vital to their operations. The Opposition has attacked the provision of facilities on Diego Garcia and accused the United States of America of threatening a naval arms race in the Indian Ocean. The plan by the United States to develop Diego Garcia into a modest facility is no more than a response to the rapid build-up of Soviet facilities in the Indian Ocean region, not to forget of course the buoying facilities that the Russians have in the Seychelles and other parts of the Indian Ocean. All that the Diego Garcia base will do is enable the United States to operate in the Indian Ocean if it needs to operate there. It is no more than a facility, but it gives the United States a capacity to operate and to resupply should the need arise. 
I wonder also why some of the non-aligned states which are so loud in their condemnation of Diego Garcia are silent when it comes to the Russian developments at Berbera and Aden and the use of ports in other so-called non-aligned nations. There is no question that unless Diego Garcia is developed Russia will have a major strategic advantage in the Indian Ocean. Any move to decrease the influence or will of the United States can only create a decided imbalance in favour of the Soviet Union, and one about which we should be concerned. 
It is tempting to believe that goodwill and noble rhetoric can solve any problems. But cold national interest is the only criterion on which nations in the world operate. For those who fear United States-Soviet escalation, I point out that competitive escalation is better than single escalation by a non-sympathetic power. 
Finally, may I refer briefly to the development of HMAS  Stirling.  This has been a need for a long time to enable Australia to deploy if necessary a 2 -ocean Navy. It is necessary for the protection of our north-west coast and in view of the instability in the Indian Ocean that we should have a presence there and that that presence should be available to those navies of friendly powers should they require to use it. There is also a need, I believe, for a patrol base along our north-west coast to protect that coast against drug smuggling, fishing offences and possible urban guerilla activity on our inter-continental shelf and indeed the whole north-west coast from which are to be found vital areas of development. 
The Soviet has already used its power in the Indian Ocean, during the Somali crisis in 1970, during the Bangladesh war and in the course of the Arab-Israeli war in 1 973. Common sense demands that we support the development by the United States of Diego Garcia and the use by friendly powers of a newly developed HMAS  Stirling,  which I hope will be developed rapidly. Regarding the emotional nonsense spoken by  Mr Beazley  that HMAS  Stirling  would be a nuclear target, I think this is a contemptible attempt to create fear. The industrial development around Kwinana and the Perth area would be a far more tempting nuclear target than a small naval facility. Defence is as much a part of the machinery of security as is a fire brigade or a police force. It is part of the recurring price of sovereignty. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer to the lack of forward orders at Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd shipyard in Whyalla in South Australia. Is the Minister aware that the general manager of the shipyard has stated that financial assistance by the Federal Government is the only way out of present difficulties? Is it a fact that the Minister undertook to present a submission to Cabinet and that high priority would be given to this matter? Has he made this submission? If not, will it be presented as a matter of urgency? Can the Minister state what plans the Government has to prevent a phasing down or even possible closure of that shipyard? 
In the short time before the dinner adjournment I should like to take the opportunity to congratulate  Senator Laucke  on his elevation to the very high position of  President  of this exalted chamber. I should also like to say how pleased I have been with the compliments that have been paid to him by Opposition senators as well as by senators on this side of the chamber.  Senator Laucke  being a South Australian, of course, we are all proud of him. He has earned a reputation for being thoroughly gentlemanly and very fair in every respect, and I am sure that he will do credit to his predecessors in the position of  President. 
Everything is resolved now,  Senator Mulvihill  will be glad to know. Let me say for the benefit of honourable senators that the cricketers are back at work and looking forward to defeating New South Wales at the first opportunity. But please allow me not to be distracted by  Senator Mulvihill.  I continue my congratulatory remarks with respect to  Senator Tom  Drake-Brockman, whom I have come to regard as a good friend and a very competent member and former Minister of our Government. I congratulate him on his appointment to the position of  Chairman  of Committees and I know that he will fill the office particularly well. I believe that the new senators who have come into this chamber and who have already made their maiden speeches have shown themselves to be a credit to the chamber. I refer particularly to my colleague  Senator Messner,  who last week gave us a very informative address on the problems associated with small business and taxation matters, on which he is an expert. My colleague  Senator Kilgariff  from the Northern Territory also demonstrated his capacity. I welcome also the new senators on the Opposition benches and wish them well in their maiden speeches, if they have not yet made them. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
Before the sitting was suspended,  Mr President,  in your absence I was extolling your virtues and extending congratulations on your elevation to the high office that you hold. Now that you are in the Senate chamber in person, may I very briefly congratulate you in that respect. 
The previous  speaker, Senator Coleman,  continued with the vitriolic type of speech that we have heard from Opposition senators following the presentation by the Governor-General of his Speech in this chamber last week. She said how those people who elected the Australian Labor Party felt cheated. I wonder how the honourable senator can sustain an argument of that type when the people of Australia, many of whom voted for the Australian Labor Party in May 1 974, decided in December last that it was time to return to true democracy and gave the Liberal-National Country Party resounding support. The arguments that are put forward by Opposition senators on this occasion are hollow and certainly fall on deaf ears as their former supporters in the electorate consider the activities of the Labor Party in this place and in the other place nothing short of childish when they continue to attack the integrity of the GovernorGeneral. 
I will not say anything further in this vein other than to add that the people of Australia realise that this Government has inherited from the previous Government a pretty shocking state of affairs. I do not suppose anybody in Australia is surprised that we are faced with a deficit approaching $4,500m. The Budget that we inherited from the Labor Government and its Treasurer,  Mr Hayden,  in essence assumed that the wages of Australians would rise by 22 per cent. Inherent in that assumption is the fact that taxation receipts from Australians would rise by 43 per cent. I recall very clearly that in 1974 the Labor Government presented a Budget for which the estimated deficit was $570m; it ended up being approximately $2, 600m. On this occasion, the Budget which we inherited contained an expected deficit of approximately $2,500m. Now, well before the end of June, we face a deficit which by the middle of the year could certainly be approaching $5,000m. This is why the people of Australia opted for a LiberalNational Country Party administration. We have a proven record in business management. The people recognise that we were the appropriate Parties to get the economy of Australia back on the rails. 
The Speech by  His Excellency  does recognise in broad terms the areas upon which we must concentrate. Immediately after the election, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  indicated some of the measures that would be taken, and acted immediately upon them, to try to curtail the expenditure that was occurring in the publicsector. Our policies as enunciated in the Governor-General's Speech imply quite definitely that we aim to revive the private sector upon which the Australian economy depends. It is all very well for the Opposition, as it has done in the past, to go about its program of social welfare while denigrating, in effect, the private sector. We on this side of the Senate recognise that the private enterprise part of our economy is responsible for 75 per cent of employment. Because of this, we have set on a path of revival and of re-creating incentive in that important sector of our economy. This will be to the ultimate advantage of all Australians, including pensioners. 
I heard  Senator Coleman  refer to some of the actions taken with respect to the removal of certain privileges received by pensioners. I support her to the extent that I do not agree entirely with some of the decisions that have been made. I do not wish to see pensioners deprived of the funeral benefit. I have recorded my protest in the appropriate manner and I hope that the Government will pay regard to my protestations in that area. I also was a bit disappointed about the $1,000 provision with respect to the 40 per cent investment allowance. I have made my protestations about that aspect. After all, the private sector is of great importance. Small businesses in Australia suffered under the previous administration to the degree that approximately 1 50 000 such businesses went broke. This occurred especially as a result of the policies perpetuated by the previous administration. I believe that we must revive confidence. An allowance level of $1,000 would be important in my view to a person in an accounting business, or perhaps an accountant with a small operation, who wanted to acquire an item of equipment such as an electric typewriter. 
My basis is fairly sound. I have regard to the records that are available from the various chambers of commerce and industry bodies. A figure of 150 000 may be an over estimate but the figure is in excess of 130 000. It is still a lot of small businesses, which the Labor Government purported to represent. It is our job to see that those businesses are reinstated in the community. Therefore, I have some criticisms of that provision. I hope that, as soon as the economic climate improves, the Government will review that decision. 
This Government has inherited the effects of mismanagement by the Labor Government. I suppose we must suffer for that. The unemployment level has increased. It is not our fault that it has increased. Whereas I believe that the concept of the National Employment and Training scheme and the Regional Employment Development scheme in essence was good when the Labor Party introduced those schemes, I think that the guidelines were wrong and that abuses occurred with respect to those schemes which cost the Australian taxpayer dearly. I can think of examples in South Australia where wives of doctors have been able to attract a grant of $80 or $90 a week so that they can be retrained under the NEAT scheme. That retraining was to the disadvantage of people in industry who were forced out of their jobs by the policies of the previous Government and who were genuinely looking for some assistance to re-inject them into industry, perhaps in some other area, so that they could contribute to the economy. Basically the concept is fine, but I think that the experience of the people was that the Labor Party was incapable of proper management. The Regional 
Employment Development scheme is another concept which met with my approval in its basic terms. Again, many examples can be brought forward which show where this scheme has been abused. I believe that the Labor Party set out with the right thought in mind, but it allowed itself to be carried away with vote catching gimmicks and excessive expenditure and this has resulted in the economic state which we are facing at the present time. 
Unemployment benefits were overemphasised by the Labor Government. I recall the example of a mechanic in South Australia who was able to find a job at a garage in that State. He was paid $20 above the award rate by the employer. He worked conscientiously with the business. A fortnight after he was employed he was given another $10 because he happened to be an expert tradesman in that field and the employer was well satisfied. But 6 weeks later this chap tendered his resignation. He said to his employer 'I cannot stay with you any longer because it is my turn to go on unemployment benefits. I am living with three or four friends and it is my turn to have a month off'. Those are the things which we believe are bad. There has been an insufficient follow-up procedure with respect to that type of case. We hope to examine very carefully the administration behind unemployment relief. Plenty of jobs are available in Australia today. I have friends in industry who can offer employment. But a person will not accept employment because the job may not be related to his sphere of expertise, or he may not like the work because it is to heavy or too dirty, or perhaps he wants to have an outside job and the job for which he applies is inside. These are things which concern me and the taxpayers, who I believe are paying inordinate amounts to keep people who could be employed, albeit temporarily, until some other job comes forth which appeals to their expertise. I believe that such people in all conscience ought to be able to take a job which is offering at the appropriate time. These things worry me and they certainly worry former supporters of the Labor Party. 
Only last week I received representations from the Coober Pedy Progress Association in the opal mining area of South Australia. This is a tragic case. These people were led to believe that they could attract a benefit under the RED scheme to purchase a community hall worth about $45,000. They purchased the hall in good faith, only to learn, towards the end of the last Government's administration, that the money was not forthcoming because that Government had run the country almost into a state of bankruptcy. I took up the case with the former Minister for Labor and Immigration only a few weeks before the election. I asked him to see what he could do for that organisation. It is now discovered that the $1,500 which was forthcoming has to be repaid. I believe in all sincerity that we have to look after that community. I hope that representations which I have made with respect to the Coober Pedy Progress Association will be recognised by the present Government and that the repayment of $1,500 will be waived. I know that we have to be extremely careful about the money which we spend at this time. No doubt everybody in the chamber has some example similar to this in his own area. Cumulatively, I suppose these examples could amount to a lot of money. I believe that those cases in which there is genuine hardship as a result of the extravagances and misleading policies of the former Government ought to be considered on their merits. I hope that we recognise that we have some obligation in this regard. 
As I mentioned at the outset, the GovernorGeneral's Speech was in fairly broad terms. I have been somewhat critical of one or two things mentioned in the Speech. I shall direct my remarks largely to an area of great importance to the future of this country. I shall spend a few minutes of the Senate's time in pointing to the need to recognise that our future depends largely on energy. This is a subject that I have raised in this place on many occasions. We have to recognise that our resources are plentiful when compared with those of countries which are less fortunate than ours. We have to recognise that there are other forms of energy upon which we have to concentrate rather than the accepted or conventional forms of oil and coal. I hope that after what I say here tonight the Government will recognise the urgency of the matter and of providing research and development facilities so that some co-ordination can occur in this important area. One of the things that escape us when we think of energy is that practically all forms of energy come from the sun. There is only one exception to that, and that is atomic energy which originates from the earth's interior. Of course, industry has exploited the coal and oil resources of the world and, in particular, of this country. It is the easiest and most vulnerable form of solar energy. We know that this accumulation of the sun's energy takes millions of years to form. This is the obvious area which industry has to exploit first. But we have to look at the present rate of consumption in Australia and in the world. We have to look ahead. This is one criticism which I have of the former LiberalCountry Party Government. I do not think it looked far enough ahead. Certainly, the Labor Party had no foresight with respect to these matters. We have to consider the present rate of consumption. The fact is that by the middle of the next century the conventional forms of energy as we know them today- that is oil and gas- will probably be exhausted. 
I am being conservative in my estimate and  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack may well be right. 
-I have already told  Senator Mulvihill  that the South Australian cricket team is back at work.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack could well be right. But if  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has a look at the coal resources in this country I think - 
I accept your kind rebuke,  Mr President,  and I will endeavour not to offend again. Anyway, I have made an estimate. I think it is subject to argument. The conventional forms of energy might be exhausted by 1985, but I think that my estimate may be more accurate. Let us be conservative and say that they might be exhausted by the middle of the next century. Nevertheless, whatever figure we look at or whatever time interval we look at, it is in my view a crisis point. Not only has the demand for power created problems with respect to resources - 

 - Senator Young has intervened in a somewhat facetious vein. Nevertheless what he has said is perfectly true- the previous Government had its sights set on power in a different way. We believe that we have to look after the future power resources of this country. When I was interrupted by my colleague I was about to put the point of view that, apart from the depletion of our resources, we have another problem, that is, the question of pollution. Anyone who lives in Sydney will realise that the emission of gases from the conventional sources of power is creating a problem in that city. 

 -Mr President, I have suggested on previous occasions that Sydney is a classic example of pollution in the environment. 
It happens to be one of the worst polluted areas in the world. 
-It behoves us all not to treat this matter lightly, as  Senator Mulvihill  appears to be treating it. We have to come to grips with the problem irrespective of what State government happens to be in power. I can tell  Senator Mulvihill  about what happens at Port Augusta in South Australia. You know the area very well,  Mr President.  In fact, you visited there on an occasion when you were a member of a committee dealing with air pollution. The power station at Port Augusta is emitting extraordinary amounts of pollution into the air. I lived there for fifteen or sixteen years and I know how irritating it was to get up on a Sunday morning, having cleaned my car the previous evening, and see the scum that had settled upon it. I can understand the distress that would be experienced by the average housewife because she could sign her name on the piano at any time of the day. 
I believe that the Government of South Australia, under its progressive socialist Premier, ought to have done something about this a long time ago. I am glad to say that as a result of pressures that have been brought to bear upon that Government by the Opposition in the South Australian Parliament, which is under the capable leadership of  Dr Tonkin,  something is going to be done about the precipitation of a station which is causing the offensive pollution in that city. I will applaud that move. I pay some regard to the fact that through persistent effort we have been able to persuade the State Government to become more progressive in that way. 
To get back to the subject matter of my speech, the only alternative source of energy that has been put forward as an answer to the world 's energy problem, due to the ever increasing demand for power, happens to be atomic energy. In my view it is only a temporary measure. We have to look forward to other alternatives that will be less pollutant- I am sure that this will appeal to 
I can imagine that  Senator Mulvihill  would have an interest in water pollution. In my opinion the question of nuclear power, nuclear fusion, brings with it problems of pollution. I speak of highly radioactive wastes. Therefore, in my opinion, it is a transitory form of energy to overcome our problems in the immediate and perhaps middle-distant future. 
Obviously Australia has many energy resources. Each must be exploited under various headings, bearing in mind the economics associated with the operation, the quantitatives and qualitative aspects of the source of energy, the life span of it, the environmental effects of the continual use of it and the need for an on-going program of research into the development of alternative sources of energy before our conventional methods are exhausted. It is with this in mind that I fully support the establishment of an energy resources authority whose role ought to be to allocate priorities with respect to the best use of our existing resources and to establish a co-ordinated program of development of the less conventional methods of providing energy. 
To do this effectively it is desirable that a body be established with personnel who are able to bring to bear practical as well as theoretical influence on the subject. It is also highly desirable to avoid people who may be unduly biased towards any particular energy source and who might unduly influence a particular technique without due regard to the need for a sensible allocation of priorities. It seems obvious that the existing resources I have mentioned- coal, oil and gas- must be developed and exploited first of all because it is quite clear that economics dictate that we have to do that. Bearing in mind our limitations in oil and gas it would be my suggestion that we ought to establish within reasonable accuracy the quantity and quality of coal deposits in Australia and send samples of each to either SASOL- the South African Coal, Oil and Gas Corporation- or West Germany for an assessment as to the cost-benefit of liquefication and gasification and the production of various by-products associated with this type of technology. 
I understand that some work already has been done on this matter by the Department of National Resources, as it is now called. I notice that last year, I think it was, the Premier of Victoria, being a very progressive Premier, suggested the appointment of and, I think, appointed a committee to investigate this subject overseas. I believe that this is a matter for the Federal Government to have a look at because of its national implications, but I do pay a tribute to Premier Hamer for his foresight in recognising the particular need in this respect as far as his State is concerned. 

 -Senator Sir Magnus Cormack reminds me that  Mr Hamer  has some special expertise in this area. T. would suggest that the Minister concerned consult with him in the true spirit of federalism to attract any information and support that  Mr Hamer  might have in respect of that energy technology. In Australia we have a large quantity of coal. For example, in South Australia we are still producing the cheapest power in Australia at Leigh Creek. We have discovered quite large quantities of coal in South Australia in the Lake Phillipson area up near Coober Pedy. 

 - Senator Young reminds me about Balaklava and Moorlands. However, the magnitude of the deposits in the Lake Phillipson area would be considerable. I believe that we should be looking towards the establishment there of a SASOL plant. I know something about such plants and I believe that you,  Mr President,  have some information about them also. At present in South Africa low grade black coal is being processed in this way. Low grade brown coal also can be similarly processed. The coal is being liquefied and sold in the pumps in that country at prices comparable with prices for oil obtained from overseas sources. 
-I am glad that  Senator Primmer  mentioned cheap black labour. I would suggest to him that he examines the economy of South Africa. If he does so, he will realise that the black people of that country are far more affluent than the people of any black African state. 
-We are talking about South Africa and I am "ot frightened to talk about it. I believe that that country is working towards the ultimate goal of providing its black people with complete autonomy, complete independence.  Senator Primmer  will find that on 25 October this year there will be a prime minister of the independent State of the Transkei which will have the capacity to maintain diplomatic posts from China and Russia. That will appeal to my friends in the Opposition. The country will have a defence force in its own right and will be trading with the Republic of South Africa. I believe that is an aim that ought to be recognised and applauded by the Opposition senators who are very quick to applaud what is happening in Angola where the Russians are exerting their influence and where the communists have some supremacy at the present time. I would be very careful about criticising the motives of South Africa. While I am on that subject, I would like to suggest that one of the best ways of understanding people in other countries is to go and talk to them and get to know them as I have done. 
-Senator Mulvihill, why do not you go over there and look for yourself; why do not you go over there and talk to the  President  of the Olympic Games Council in Johannesburg? Why does  Senator Mulvihill  not discover that there are black people on the Olympic Games Council? Why does he not discover that in that country whites are playing sport with the black people? Why does he not understand the reasons behind the evolution that is going on in that country? Why does not he understand that as a result of the policies, some of which I do not agree with - 
I am not qualifying anything. Why does  Senator Mulvihill  not understand that behind every nation's internal policies there is a motive. I know that the black people in South Africa happen to be very satisfied with their economic situation. 
Let me get back to my subject matter and disregard the interjections from my environmental friend on my right. Let me return to the SASOL plant that is the real subject of the point that I am trying to make. Whether members of the Australian Labor Party like it or not, they have developed the most sophosticated method of liquefaction of coal in the world. I happen to know a little of the company in 
Orange Free State which is engaged in this process. It will appeal to the socialists on my right as it is government owned. I do not like that. I reckon that it ought to be privately owned. It is intended to build a factory with twice the capacity of the present plant. That will be done by way of a private enterprise-government partnership which will be far more efficient. They will be able to sell the product far more cheaply if that method is employed.  Mr President,  let me say to Opposition senators, through you, that at the present time 8000 people are employed in that area. Four thousand are black people and 4000 are white people. The company makes available this facility to all employees: They can borrow money to build a home at an interest rate of about 4 per cent. The black people are being housed in very pleasant circumstances at a very low rate and are able to pay for it. So I say to  Senator Mulvihill:  Please do not start talking about things you do not know anything about. I would like to redirect  Senator Mulvihill  's attention to the subject with which I was dealing. Because of the environmental and emotional aspects related to uranium mining- transport, processing, storage of wastes and ultimate long term problems associated with the obsolescence of plants- I place a lower priority on this sort of energy than on others. I have stated already that in my personal view- this does not reflect the opinion of my Party- uranium ought to be used as a bridging source of power to give us a chance to develop other technology which even  Senator Mulvihill  would applaud. I suggest that solar energy is the most attractive environmentally.  Senator Mulvihill  is trying to interrupt me again. He should not, because I am saying things upon which we ought to be in agreement. 
-I invite  Senator Mulvihill  to listen to me in silence. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! Interjections are out of order. 

 - Mr Deputy President, now that you are in the chair, I would like to congratulate you personally on your appointment to the important positions of  Deputy President  and  Chairman  of Committees. I was in England last year and I took the trouble to talk to people in the environment department which is fast becoming an octopus enveloping practically every other department in Great Britain. Probably that is the reason why the socialists in that country have the biggest inflation rate in the world. No doubt the pressures applied from within the trade union movement are dragging that once great country down to its knees. While I was there, as a matter of fact, I had a counter lunch in an hotel- an old pub. For lunch I had bangers and mash- the traditional meal over there- with a pint of bitter. While I was eating I became engaged in a conversation similar to those which I am sure my friends opposite have had on similar occasions. The hotel owner came up to me and said: 'My name is Michael Donellan'. I said: I am Donald Scott Jessop.' He said: 'What do you do'. I said: 'I happen to be a member of Parliament'. He said: 'Where do you come from?' I said: 'I come from Australia '. He said: 'I notice in the Press that you are having problems out there with your trade union movement. We are having troubles in the UK as well'. He said: 'Do you know the best thing you can do in Australia?'. I said: 'No'. He said: 'Ban every communist trade union leader you have in Australia because they have been - 
I notice how this excites the members of the Opposition, but these remarks came from a small businessman in the UK. Honourable senators opposite may be interested to know that taxi drivers with whom I was able to talk- I know many have glass screens in their taxis which they close- had a similar view, and they said that the reason Britain has been dragged down to its knees and is suffering almost impossible inflation is the undue influence of the left wing trade union movement in that country. Let me go further and say a little more about this subject. While I was overseas I went to Paris for a day. I did not go to any nightclubs, unfortunately, but I managed to speak to the  Chairman  of the Finance and Development Commission in that country who- I may be a bit ignorant about this- I think would sit on the front bench as he a prominent member of the Government party. He said that he was very worried about the situation in the UK because the people who are running the country happen to be trade unionists who are trained by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Let honourable senators opposite work that one out. I would imagine that the intelligence section of the French Government would be working pretty accurately. The European Economic Community has a real fear of the insiduous influence, the dragging down influence of the union element, the wrong union element in the UK. I was a trade union member at one time. I was in the Miscellaneous 
Workers Union. I believe that the trade union movement is an essential part of our society. I think the majority of the trade union movement would recognise that. I also believe the majority of the trade union movement would recognise the need to replace some of the militant people who act quite contrary to the interests of their members. They ought to be replaced with people who are responsible. That is the reason, of course, that we have brought out a policy whereby we advocate that the trade union movement ought to be provided with a facility to have secret ballots for the election of union officials. 
I agree with the honourable senator- our friend who talks about Timor with such expertise and who has made some quite extraordinary statements about Timor which are completely ignorant in their basis as far as I am concerned. The honourable senator ought to be ashamed of himself for saying some of the things he has said. What the honourable senator said then I agree with; the facility is there. I know a lot of trade union people who are genuine and I know a lot of people who have got sick and tired of being manipulated by the minority. 
Let me answer the question that has been posed by my honourable senatorial friend from New South Wales. The reason the members do not go along is that they happen to be sick and tired of being intimidated by some militant union officials. 
-That may be rubbish to the honourable senator but I have heard from Transport Workers Union members that they have been threatened and intimidated at meetings and that their families and their homes have been attacked by militant members of their union. That is why we believe some responsibility ought to be injected into the union movement. I know that people over the years have got sick of this and they ask themselves: 'What is the use of our going along to trade union meetings with respect to strikes, because the same people are pressurising, the same people are intimidating'. I was talking to a chap at Whyalla only a few months ago who said: 'I did not go to a meeting, I was at home mowing the lawn'. He said that he felt ashamed to say that. I said: 'You ought to be. You are one of the responsible members of the trade union movement who ought to be sticking up for your mates and making sure that members get a better deal than they have been getting in Whyalla recently'. At the time wives of trade unionists were demonstrating against the inordinate and irresponsible - 
This gives me an opportunity to suggest that the Labor Party ought to be very careful about the retention of the seat of Grey. The gentlemen on my right will recall that the 1969 election, when I happened to be the member for Grey, was held under a redistribution that was introduced by my Party which excluded no less than 8000 votes from one of my blue ribbon rural areas. I was able, with the support of my Party, to be defeated on preferences when the present member for Grey was saying that I was going to be beaten by 7000 votes. We went to preferences. I am glad the honourable senator reminded me of this. The present member for Grey won the seat by about 550 votes. That is the rough figure. A swing of 0.6 per cent will mean that the present member for Grey will be history. I believe that will happen in 3 years time. The honourable senator should not talk about Grey to me because I know just how dissatisfied the electors were with the Labor Party administration. 
Let me refrain from being distracted any further by these unruly, disorderly interjections. I will go back to my subject which I am sure  Senator Mulvihill,  the shadow Minister for the Environment, must applaud, and that is that solar energy is the most attractive environmental source of energy. In my view it is the long term answer to our energy needs and indeed could form the basis of an energy exporting industry for Australia.  Senator Cavanagh  interjected when he was a Minister while I was making a speech on this subject. Obviously he did not know much about it but he has probably studied it a bit more since then and knows that what I say is true. 
-I am glad  Senator Cavanagh  has become educated since he last interjected on this subject. In my view this is very important. The amazing part about it is that domestic solar energy can be introduced immediately. This, of course, would mean a tremendous saving on the requirement for energy in Australia. In fact, I suggest that our Government ought to do everything in its power to encourage the installation of domestic heating and cooling solar units in houses throughout Australia. It would save about 25 per cent of the demand on our conventional sources of power. 
How can we do it? We ought to be looking at a proposition to waive the sales tax on such appliances. We ought to get State governments to look at ways and means by which they can encourage the use of solar energy. It was not long ago, of course, that the South Australian Government was penalising the people who put in solar energy units by depriving them of the off-peak tariff rating. I think it was called the J tariff rating. I am glad to be able to say that last year the Electricity Trust of South Australia altered its policy. It is now allowing these people to attract that low tariff rate. I do not know what the situation is in New South Wales or Victoria. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood),  who is in the chamber, may be able to tell me whether the Victorian Electricity Commission pays regard to that aspect. If it does not, it ought to.  Mr Hamer,  being a progressive Premier, will probably announce such a decision during the current campaign, if he has not done so already. Perhaps  Senator Wright  will inform me whether the Tasmanian Government has any regard for that aspect. Some States may not be as well endowed with sunlight as the Northern Territory. 
-That is a point that ought to be looked at by the Tasmanian Government because I am sure that  Senator Wright's  State would profit by it.  Senator Kilgariff,  who lives in Alice Springs, knows very well that the average number of sunlight hours a day there during the whole year is about nine. As a matter of fact, I intended to advocate later the establishment in that area or the northern part of South Australia of a solar farm that would provide energy resources for the whole of Australia. I hope that at some future time  Senator Kilgariff  will give me some support for that project. Knowing his foresight, I am sure that he will. 
That is good. I am am advocate of it. A significant point is that we can introduce domestic solar energy in a very short time. We ought to be looking now towards the long term development of energy from the solar source. In South Australia some useful work is being carried out by several organisations and institutions. Members of the staff of the Institute of Energy Conservation at Flinders University in South Australia have been working along the lines that I have suggested. They have been directing their attention towards the long term development, of the conversion of this energy source. The work is confined to a very modest grant from the general revenue of the University and local industries. It is interesting to note that that institute has recognised the need to bring private enterprise into its research projects. 
The Australian Mineral Development Laboratories, established some years ago as a combined Commonwealth, State government and private enterprise institution, is not being fully utilised. The staff is becoming restless and frustrated because of lack of activity in research work. Therefore, the Commonwealth Government ought to examine its commitment in respect of the original agreement. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the scientific section of the Weapons Research Establishment at Salisbury, which my colleagues opposite will realise is experiencing difficulties now due to the phasing out or caretaker policy which was advocated by  Senator Bishop's  Party and has been pursued by our Party, are worried about their future. They ought to be engaged on this type of research work. 
I would like to dwell for a few moments on the Flinders University which has, I believe, an ideal set-up. It has an Institute of Solar and Electrochemical Energy Conversion. The last occasion on which I visited that institution was earlier this year. I had discussions with scientists associated with meteorology and physical sciences in all categories. They emphasised, above all, the need for co-ordination in research and development of solar energy conversion on a national scale. This nation's unique wealth in energy, minerals and even in more abundant replenishable energy resources- that is, the sun, wind and possibly tide- demands the establishment of a long term energy policy. Such a policy must give high priority to the introduction of a national research plan to exploit alternative energy resources. The scientists indicated a willingness to assist in and contribute towards the definition of this policy and the establishment of a national plan. I was given the opportunity to see some of the current projects and was given an explanation of some of their planned activities. 
Firstly, the Institute provides testing facilities for industrial interests developing alternative energy devices, for example, the Dunlite 2 kW wind generator, Philips silicon solar cells and Exide storage batteries. The Institute has plans to establish an environmental energy testing laboratory. I was shown a model of this circular building. The Institute in the past has made attempts to establish a solar energy conversion laboratory with funds provided by industrial interests. However, in the absence of government involvement in this project all attempts have failed. I recall that Professor Bockris was most loud in his condemnation of  Mr Connor  and his lack of interest in this particular area. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that the Australian National Railways Commission has decided to cut out Budd car services to Woomera from 12 March? Is he also aware that the aircraft services will be reduced from five to three a week from tomorrow? Has the Minister been informed that I have already written to his colleague requesting that the decision to cut down or phase out passenger services in the northern part of South Australia be reviewed? Can the Minister say what action the Government proposes to take to ensure that adequate public transport is provided to Woomera? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, concerns the alarming spread of water hyacinth in the tributaries of the Darling River in New South Wales. This is presenting a serious threat to the River Murray in South Australia, following sustained flooding in the upper reaches. Can the Minister say whether large scale efforts are planned to eradicate this monster weed? 
I know. I also happen to be interested in this matter. Will the Government examine the need to provide financial and technological assistance to the Government of New South Wales or to some other authority in order to see that this work proceeds without delay? 
This Bill, the purpose of which is to amend the National Health Act, has 3 aspects. We have heard references made to these aspects. These measures have been rendered necessary in the interests of the economy and as a result of the introduction of Medibank. This is one Bill of many which will not be popular with every section of the community. But at this time we must consider good and strong management decisions which cannot be expected always to win a popularity poll. 

 Senator Coleman, who has just resumed her seat, referred to the fact that the Labor Party had to increase the basic pharmaceutical prescription fee from $1 to $1.50. I would suggest that that action was taken bearing in mind the economic circumstances at that time, and for that reason it was necessary. Had that type of action not been contemplated and put into effect the economy would have been in a much worse state as a result. I would be one who would object, as the Opposition objects, when any of these increases in charges come about. We all recognise that what has been said by  Senator Coleman  is quite true to a degree. We have to make a judgment on these things. We have to take decisions which, at the present time, may not be palatable to all of us. The average price for a non-pensioner prescription is now in the area of $3.20. The increase in these charges has gone on over a period of years. I note that 10 years ago we were paying out something like $50m for prescriptions in this category. At the present time the estimate happens to be something in excess of $ 100m. During that time the population has increased by 20 per cent so the thought in everyone's mind seems to be: Why have costs for these prescriptions increased by over 100 per cent when, in effect, the population has increased by 20 per cent? This seems to indicate that there could be some overprescribing which would cause this increase. 
I suggest that perhaps the increase in the patient's contribution to a pharmacist may well make doctors hesitate a little rather than giving four or five prescriptions, which is not uncommon. At the present time the charge is $1.50 each. Perhaps doctors will scratch their heads and work out a way by which the patient can be looked after by giving him fewer prescriptions. I disagree with  Senator Coleman's  assertion that the patient has nothing to do with the demand for prescriptions. I have many medical friends who, quite frequently, are requested by a patient to write quite a large number of repeat prescriptions. On occasions these people go into the surgery with, in effect, a shopping list and expect the doctor to pay regard to their requests. I am not saying that is a general attitude but I believe it does occur. I am concerned about the patient contribution reaching a level of something like 62 per cent. I suggest to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  that when economic circumstances improve this aspect must be reviewed with the objective of at least paying regard to the high cost to the patient. 
Another problem which worries me involves the patient with chronic illness. At the moment he seems to be somewhat disadvantaged although provision exists whereby if a doctor considers it is in the patient's interest, the doctor may obtain an authority from the Director of Health in any State to enable him to prescribe increased maximum quantities and to give repeat prescriptions which will provide one month's treatment or 2 repeats for a patient at a cost of $2 for each month's supply. In some cases repeats for up to 6 months' supply can be written on one prescription. Nevertheless, a chronically ill patient has a need for certain drugs to be prescribed, perhaps for the rest of his life. I think this is another area where the Minister ought to be directing his attention. I hope that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  who is in charge of the Bill will convey this message, which is that we ought to have regard for people who are chronically ill and that we ought to keep in mind- I realise there is no easy answer to this matter- the possibility of having a talk with the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to see whether some taxation measures can be adopted so that these people can be given the benefit of added tax deductions. 
This morning  Senator Grimes,  during question time, referred to the deletion of certain items from the pharmaceutical benefits list. There was quite an impressive list. I have managed to get a copy of the list. The reason these drugs are taken off the list is that the Adverse Drug Reactions Advisory Committee examines the list from time to time, lt examines whether drugs can be substituted for others, not to the detriment of the patient. Therefore, some drugs have been excluded because alternative drugs are still available to ensure that the patient can be given proper treatment. There are other reasons. As  Senator Grimes  would know, some drugs have unpleasant side effects. The patient is affected detrimentally if he continues to take them. That is another reason that some drugs have been excluded. Others were excluded at the request of the manufacturer who believed that there was not a demand for the type of drug concerned. 
The second point of this Bill relates to the removal of pharmaceutical benefits under the subsidised health benefits plan. We have heard  Senator Baume  refer to this matter. It is purely and simply a matter of economy. At the present time it is costing the Government $1.3m in the Department of Social Security alone to administer this benefit. Currently I think it amounts to $700,000. It is estimated that the benefit will amount to about $920,000 for the 1975-76 full year. Of course this $1.3m is the cost of only administration in the Department of Social Security. Other expenses are to be considered. They have not been referred to in the Bill and are associated with the Department of Health. I imagine that that could well be a matter of $250,000 in addition to the sum which I have already mentioned. In effect, a considerable amount is to be paid out for a relatively small benefit. When we consider the figures which I have referred to earlier, this year we see that we will be paying out $104m for prescriptions as a whole. The amount of $920,000 represents less than 1 per cent so I do not think too many people will be disadvantaged as a result. I guess that public hospitals will still function. I imagine that people will have some recourse to treatment or prescriptions through that source. Under the Bill it is intended that the Commonwealth hospital benefit will terminate from 1 April 1976. I shall spell out what is intended. The Minister stated: 
The benefits which will cease to be payable- 
That is from 1 April-  are: $2 a day payable under sub-section 46 ( 1 ) of the Act for patients who are contributors to registered hospital benefits organisations; 80c a day, payable under sub-section 53 ( 1 ) of the Act, for uninsured patients in approved hospitals; $5 a day, payable under section 54 (1) of the Act for pensioners who receive free treatment in public hospitals; and $2 a day payable under section 55A of the Act, where an approved hospital does not raise a charge for a patient. 
I think that this aspect was explained quite well by the Minister for Health in his second reading speech when he said that the extra cost to the contributors to these organisations will be very small. In fact, there will be a minimal increase, estimated to be about 10c or 12c a week, in the family contribution. So I believe that that part of the Bill will not have a very detrimental effect. 
With those few remarks and bearing in mind that I have made a couple of suggestions to the Minister about what we ought to be looking at in the future with respect to arresting this large contribution for the patient, which is nearly twothirds of the cost, and also with respect to the position of the patients in Australia who are chronically ill- I remind the Minister that I suggested also that we ought to be looking at some taxation benefit for those people- I support the Bill. 
My question to the Minister for Social Security concerns an offer made by the Voluntary Health Insurance Association to pay out Medibank rebates at no charge to the Government or the public at the same time as it pays gap insurance benefits from the respective funds. The offer was reported in today's  Advertiser.  Can the Minister enlighten me whether the proposal has been examined by the Government? If so, can the Minister say whether a favourable reaction resulted? Can the Minister envisage any insurmountable difficulties arising from the proposition as reported? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. The question arises from claims by a spokesman for the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union and reported in the Adelaide  News  of 2 March that cuts will be made in the funds available for the railways standardisation program in South Australia and relates to a question asked yesterday by  Senator Bishop. 
Just a moment. I at least try to ask specific questions and not vague ones. Can the Minister inform me whether the claims are accurate? Is it a fact, as claimed, that stockpiles of equipment will be wasted because of a reduction made in government spending? Has work on partly completed standard gauge rolling stock been curtailed? In fact, according to the report, it has been stopped. If the Government proposes such cuts will the Minister ask his colleague in another place to reassess this decision in the light of the value to South Australia and the Northern Territory of such transport projects and of their importance in providing employment? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to a headline in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of today's date, which reads: 'A grape surplus may not be sold'. Is he aware also that the article states that more than 5 000 tons of wine grapes from this year's vintage in South Australia may not find a market and that, according to  Mr A.  D. Preece,  President  of the Australian Grape Growers Association, the potential losses from this year's harvest might be avoided by an immediate decision favouring tax relief for wineries? Can the Minister say when the Government's announced policy in regard to section 31 A of the Income Tax Act will be implemented? In view of the detrimental effect to the wine industry resulting from the previous Government's imposition of higher excise and stock revaluation, will the Government treat this matter as urgent? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, relates to an article in the  Australian  on 15 March relating to the infestation of Australian export grain by insect pests. An entomologist is reported to have said: 
Australia's two thousand million dollar per annum grain crop will be unsaleable in five years unless insect control methods are changed dramatically. 
Is the Minister acquainted with the nitrogen storage method as advocated by South Australian authorities? Will the Commonwealth Government assist the industry financially to provide gas tight silos to allow pests to be controlled by suffocation? Has the Minister been approached by the Australian Wheat Board for financial or technical assistance? 
-Has the Minister for Science seen a statement attributed to  Sir Macfarlane  Burnet, a former  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Radiation Advisory Committee, in which he said that solar energy could be developed as an alternative source to uranium within 10 years. In view of the doubt with respect to radiation hazards associated with the mining and transport of uranium, and the disposal of uranium wastes, together with the problems associated with the accumulation of fissionable plutonium, has the Government any plan to coordinate a program of research into and development of alternative energy sources? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer to the concern expressed in Whyalla about the future of the Australian shipbuilding industry. Is the Minister aware that 1850 people are employed at the BHP shipyard at Whyalla and that another 1 800 people rely on the shipyard for their employment? Is he aware also that a total of 6000 people are directly employed in shipbuilding throughout Australia? Is the Minister able to say when he will be able to make a definitive statement on Government policy with respect to this industry? Will he undertake to send a senior member of his Department to Whyalla on Thursday of this week to attend a public meeting called by the Mayor,  Mrs Ekblom,  to discuss this important matter? 
-The question I direct to the Minister representing the Treasurer deals with the hardship being experienced by wool growers in meeting taxation commitments. Is the Minister aware that considerable pressure is being applied to wool growers for payment of income tax by the due date and that interest calculated at the rate of 10 per cent per annum is being imposed on the outstanding balance? Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to the plight of many primary producers in Australia generally but particularly in South Australia who planned to pay their tax from the proceeds of March wool sales? Does the Minister appreciate that the strike by member's of the Federated Storemen and Packers Union in the wool stores has created insurmountable difficulties for many people in this category? Will the Minister ask the Treasurer to instruct the Taxation Commissioner to allow an extension of time in order to enable wool growers to pay their tax without penalty? 
I am sure that all honourable senators realise that the canned fruits industry is facing many problems. This Bill does not provide for welfare payments, as  Senator Primmer  put it; it provides for loans to be made to the States of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia to enable them to help the canneries in those States overcome their temporary difficulties by making money available to them at an interest rate of 10 per cent. That was made clear by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  in his second reading speech when he referred to clause 4 ( 1 ) of the Bill and stated: 
As provided in clause 4 ( 1 ) of the Bill, the loans are to he subject to such conditions as are determined in writing by the Minister. Clause 4, sub-clauses (2) and (3), provides that the funds provided to the States will bear interest, and repayment of principal and interest will be required in instalments over a period of about  Vh  years. Interest will be at the rate of 10 per cent per annum. 
I do not think that the fruit growers expect handouts or welfare payments. I believe that they expect government to provide them with loan moneys to help them over their temporary difficulties. I must say that  Senator Walsh  made some useful points in his speech, as did  Senator Primmer;  but I cannot subscribe completely to the sentiments expressed in the amendment put forward by  Senator Walsh,  which attempts to blame successive Liberal and Country Party governments for the plight of this industry. I suggest that  Senator Walsh  ought to reflect upon the era of the mid- 1940s when the Chifley Government, through its policy, established soldier settlements in Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia. I am not saying that the Liberal and Country Party governments have been completely white and pure in this matter, but I do suggest that much of the trouble of the industry has been caused by the policies of the Chifley Government. 
This Bill provides for the provision of funds to enable such canneries as the Riverlands Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd in South Australia to obtain the loan moneys necessary at 10 per cent interest. The industry is facing such acute financial difficulties that the major co-operative canneries have been able to pay growers only 40 per cent to 60 per cent of the money owed to them for fruit delivered 12 months ago. The fixed price for the 1974-75 season as declared under the terms of the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee which is a statutory body under Commonwealth law, has not been paid to the growers. Until the fixed price is paid the canneries and through them the growers cannot receive the rebate on sugar, which amounts to 15 per cent of the money to be paid out. The 1976 crop, which has just been completed, is another problem. It is the subject of a government inquiry that is under way by the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 
The Minister in his second reading speech referred to the problems that are facing the canned fruits industry. He said: 
The canned fruits industry has encountered difficulties at various times over a long period. The 1974-75 season has been particularly difficult. There was a serious 'price war' between the canneries on the Australian market which lasted for some months in the first half of 1975, with disruptive effects on that market and a marked reduction in returns from domestic sales. 
I agree with the Minister's statement that the price war has had serious disruptive effects. I am certain that the growers are also in agreement with that statement. In my opinion that price war was a matter of gross stupidity.  (Quorum formed.)  I thank the Opposition for providing me with the audience which discussion on this Bill warrants. I was about to say that the whole selling structure in the fruit canning industry must be changed. I consider that it ought to be done by establishing an industry sales organisation for both- home and export sales. Primary industry has put up with the whims of sawdust Caesars who gain power and use it not to promote their shareholders' products but to promote themselves, largely. I believe this results in a bitter power struggle in industry politics. This has to stop. I am told that moves have been made to set up a rationalised selling organisation to serve all sections of the industry. Another point which is touched upon in the Minister's second reading speech relates to over-production. He says: 
To make matters more difficult an unseasonably large crop of peaches for canning came forward in 1975 beyond pre-season expectations. The general inflationary climate has also aggravated the industry's circumstances. 
Fruit growing reconstruction of course is essential. We recall that a tree-pull scheme was introduced in 1 972 under a Commonwealth Act, cited as the States Grants (Fruit-growing Reconstruction) Act 1972, the object being to remove unwarranted and unthrifty orchards from the industry and to turn them over to other forms of agriculture. That is not being fully availed of for several reasons. Pear growers, for example, are reluctant to remove trees in full heart, obviously because it takes 10 to 15 years for such trees to become fully established. I recall an old saying in the fruit growing world- you plant pears for your heirs- which indicates the long term nature of this fruit growing. A means test was applied which precluded some growers from taking advantage of this change-over technique. I think that this means test ought to be removed. I understand that the closing date for applications for benefits under this Act was 3 1 December last year. I believe this should be extended to at least the end of 1976. 1 understand also that all applications outstanding must be completed by June of this year. No new applications can be accepted. 
I am also concerned about the future of the industry from here on. Unless changes are made to prevent over-production and marketing methods are substantially improved the industry in my view is doomed to a slow and painful death. Figures available I believe indicate that unless exports revive- this is extremely doubtful in the short term- and if local sales do not increase dramatically canners will have to make further cuts in their intake. The intake has already been reduced alarmingly this year. The Australian market normally absorbs 3  lA  million cartons annually and each carton contains twelve 30-ounce cans of fruit. The average production between 1969 and 1974 was 9% million cartons. In 1974 the export market absorbed only 4'/i million cartons. If this trend continues canners will have to reduce intakes as follows: Peaches, which are now at a production level of, I think, 83 850 tonnes, would have to be reduced to 31 800 tonnes; pears, which are now at a production level of 69 500 tonnes, would have to be reduced to 21 500 tonnes; apricots, the current production level being 10 000 tonnes, would have to be reduced to 7700 tonnes. These figures are from the 1975 annual report of the Fruit Canners Association. These figures suggest an overall reduction of 63 per cent in Australia's canning fruit production. 
The problems faced by exporters revolve around several other main considerations. These are currency movements with respect to devaluation in other countries, inflation, competition from cheap labour exporters, production costs, liquidity problems in the co-operatives in all States of this nation and the industry war to which I referred earlier. The fact that it is a labour intensive industry also presents problems. There is no doubt that the year under review- 1 975-76- will be the most significant in the history of the industry and the events of the next few months will determine the industry's future. I commend the Government for the action it is taking in presenting this Bill to the Senate in order to alleviate the financial burden of the cooperative canneries. I support the Bill. It will bc of some help but I stress to the Minister and to the Government that no other section of the community is asked to reduce its income by 15 per cent in order to get its last week's or year's wages. This, in effect, is the precise position with respect to the canning industry and the growers. 
What a hue and cry would go up throughout this country if the workforce of Australia was put on, say, 63 per cent of normal working hours and was not compensated for loss of income. But the canning industry is facing just that position to which I referred a while ago when quoting figures from the annual report of the Fruit Canners Association. Australia cannot afford to lose a valuable export industry such as this. Some 20 000 families are directly involved in growing fruit. This represents a considerable involvement in the workforce throughout Australia. Decentralisation as a result of this industry is of major importance. The allied industries involving sugar, steel- I think  Senator Tehan  referred to the steel industry when commenting on the can making manufacturers- the label manufacturers, the machinery manufacturers, sales personnel and the advertising and promotional industry are all tied up with the very important canned fruit industry that we are discussing at the moment. I wholeheartedly support the Bill before the Senate and reject completely the amendment moved by  Senator Walsh. 
The purpose of this Bill is to continue in operation a stabilisation scheme for the current 1976 season similar to that operating from 1971 to 1975. Those persons participating shall be producers of any or all of the dried vine fruitssultanas, currants and raisins. The Bill provides for the establishment by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics of an annual base price for each variety of dried vine fruit. The Bureau will establish this on a cost of production formula. Three funds have been established, one for each of the crops to which I referred- sultanas, currants and raisins. Government and industry contributions are paid into the funds and drawn upon in the following ways: First, when the average return to the grower is within the range of $10 per tonne above or below the base price, no payment is made either into or out of the fund; secondly, when the average return is more than $10 per tonne above the base price all of the excess over the $ 10 per tonne with a limitation of $20 will be paid by the growers into the fund, subject to the crop exceeding a minimum tonnage. Conversely, when the average return is more than $ 10 a tonne below the base price, payments from the stabilisation funds are then made to the growers. Commonwealth Government contributions to the funds which may be necessary to meet these payments are subject to a limit of $23 per tonne on the maximum quantities of fruit. 
It is interesting to look at the history of the dried fruits industry. It was established in Australia in 1887 under the guidance of the famous Chaffey brothers in South Australia at Renmark and in Victoria at Mildura. Renmark was established 4 months before Mildura, therefore becoming the first irrigation settlement in Australia. The dried fruits industry has had many ups and downs for several main reasons. More than any other primary industry it is affected by seasonal conditions. There is a long growing period of 8 months and then a drying season, dependent on a rain-free period. I can recall on many occasions going to the Berri area of the Riverlands and working at properties belonging to my cousins and uncles. I can recall being faced with the problem of taking out of the rain trays of dried fruits and covering them. Sometimes later on I had to cart these trays of dried fruit to the Berri Co-operative, as it was called in those days, so that it could be dehydrated by mechanical or other artificial means. Of course this added considerably to the cost of the industry. Secondly, 80 per cent or more of the product has to be exported. This means that we have problems associated with fluctuating world markets. I think  Senator Walsh  mentioned something about the cost of labour in Australia not being significant. He seemed to disregard that cost. But when we are competing with countries such as Greece, Turkey and South Africa certainly labour costs are a major consideration for the industry. High freight charges are another problem. Delays on the waterfront in Australia are notorious, world wide, and this causes added problems to the industry. 
-I refer to the high freight charges which  Senator Mulvihill  must agree are a problem in relation to the main markets for the industry. Our main markets are New Zealand, Canada, the United Kingdom and West Germany. The matter of over production again comes into the problem as it did with the canning industry. I always listen to  Senator McLaren  with a great deal of interest. He comes in here with his affable smile and with a general sort of friendliness towards this side of the Senate. He then proceeds to cast aspersions at me for some unknown reason. He implies that because I suggested that the Chifley Government was responsible for soldier settlement I was not interested in the welfare of ex-servicemen in the Riverlands. That is quite wrong. 
I admit quite freely that we have made mistakes in the past and that we must accept some responsibility for that. But I believe that  Senator Wriedt  will agree that the Chifley Government in developing irrigation settlements throughout Australia after World War II caused a problem of over-production. That is a factor. Another factor is that people who came to Australia from southern Europe were encouraged to develop properties in those irrigation areas. All these things have contributed to a problem of overproduction. I have had 3 ex-servicemen cousins who have had to leave their properties in those areas. They are now working in other occupations. I sympathise with them and with the industry. I believe it is up to us to do what we can to help them out. 
The dried fruits industry is, in effect, the handmaiden of the wine industry. We have seen the disastrous effects of some of the decisions which were made by former Liberal governments. I know that  Senator Laucke,  the  President  of the Senate, was concerned when we imposed the wine tax of 50c a gallon. It was largely due to his efforts that the Government recognised the need for that tax to be reduced to 25c.  Senator Laucke  was not happy about that. He would have liked to see the tax removed, as we all would have, and as those of us from South Australia who were interested in the industry tried to do. The Australian Labor Party came into government with the great promise that it would remove this tax. Then it imposed the impost on brandy which I believe caused greater problems. Because of these actions by the Government problems of disposal of fruit surpluses were created, in particular in the sultana and the gordo area. I think the Government owes the dried fruit growers an apology for the way in which it has treated them over the 90 years in which the industry has battled along, mostly without government assistance. 
The dried fruits industry was the first industry to organise and obtain legislation which permitted it to operate an orderly marketing scheme. The Commonwealth Dried Fruits Board was established in the early 1920s and was the pilot scheme for primary industry marketing schemes which came much later. I cite the examples of sugar, wheat and canned fruit. The dried fruits industry featured in the famous James case in the early 1930s which went to the Privy Council. It affected section 92 of the Constitution and led to the referendum on that section. The decision altered the whole concept of marketing and trade within Australia. We certainly need this legislation for a further period. The Industries 
Assistance Commission is taking a further look in depth at the needs of the industry and will make recommendations to the Government soon, I understand. In the meantime, the industry needs protection because of an expected increase in tonnage. I support the Bill wholeheartedly. I hope that we can look forward to some constructive suggestions from the report which is currently being considered by the Government. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, concerns death duties. The Minister may recall that an article appeared in the  Australian  newspaper some days ago written by an eminent journalist, Max Jessop, which indicated that the Queensland Government would abolish death duties in the next State Budget. Can the Minister state the Federal Government's attitude to the abolition of Federal death duties? What is the estimated revenue that will be derived by the Commonwealth during the current financial year from that source? Can the Minister give me an estimation of the costs involved in collecting this sum of money? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that doubt exists as to the ability of the South Australian State authorities to enforce regulations made under that State's Fisheries Act, which deal with such subjects as permits to take prawns, and crayfish from waters previously under State jurisdiction. 
Will the Minister give details of any arrangement made between the Commonwealth and South Australiato ensure that sufficient legal safeguards exist to properly manage the fisheries industry. 
Does any existing Commonwealth legislation contain a provision which would enable State authorities to operate under the State Fisheries Act and to exercise the powers therein provided in such areas as, the granting of (a) licences and permits, (b) restricting use of equipment, (c) bag limits, (d) prohibitions in certain areas, (e) minimum size limits, (0 protecting rare species, (g) suspending licences, (h) confiscating equipment and restricting zoning of off-shore fisheries. 
Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware that, for the first time in 20 years, the work force at Philips Industries at Hendon in South Australia has dropped below 1000? Has his attention been drawn to the fact that, owing to a general decline in industrial development, particularly in the mining sector in the last two or three years, the company will be force to close the ferrite plant in about 6 months? This will mean further retrenchments, bringing the work force down to 850. Does the Minister realise that this is the last ferrite plant of its type in Australia and that when these retrenchments take place the expertise in applying this technology will be lost to Australia. Does the Government recognise the strategic importance of preserving this unique electronic facility in Australia, which is capable of performing extremely specialised work? Is he aware also that despite increased efficiency through introducing new technology, such as the installation of 3-wafer bonders for producing integrated circuits and the development of a continuous process for the production of enamel wire, this industry is experiencing serious problems? Can the Minister say whether his department is conscious of these problems and whether any action is contemplated to overcome them? 
I listened with interest to  Senator Button  and in particular to his remarks indicating his ideas as far as goals in education are concerned. I must say that I agree with much of what he said. I think he mentioned that people are being trained at universities for professions in which they may find in later life that it is difficult to obtain suitable employment. I completely agree with the honourable senator because I have had evidence in my State of lawyers who have graduated and who find it difficult to obtain work. I have had conversations with people who are in their final year of a course such as chemical engineering and who are worried now about whether they will be able to find suitable employment. I think that the lack of employment opportunity in that field is due to a lethargy in development in 
Australia that has persisted over the last 3 years. I hope that in that category of professions, for example, opportunities will be opened up for employment in the mining fields and in other areas as a result of the initiatives taken by this Government. 

 Senator Button said something about putting people into slots. I wonder whether in the past we have not been too preoccupied with tertiary education and have not concentrated enough on proper teacher training at the pre-school, primary, secondary and technical levels in order to encourage children into a work area where they will be most happy and where their particular IQ or talents will enable them to fulfil a job that will bring them satisfaction. I know of many instances where people have worked in a certain job and then chosen to go into another job at less pay because they have not been happy in the first job. They have not been fulfilled in their particular vocation. Therefore, what  Senator Button  has said has some merit and ought to be considered seriously by the Government in the future. 
I want to refer to universities. In my opening remarks I indicated that perhaps our priorities ought to be placed in a different area. This Bill provides for the payment of grants to the States for universities in 1976. The Bill is the result of a change in the procedure adopted by the Whitlam Government for the year 1976. This procedure is a departure from the normal triennial program which operated in the past. The Labor Government asked 4 education commissions to recommend separate programs for funding for 1976 within certain guidelines. This Bill and the related ones with which we are dealing represent the implementation of the announced decision of the present Government in its caretaker capacity in November last year that the program for 1 976 approved by the previous Government for universities, colleges of advanced education and technical and further education institutions should proceed on the basis announced by the former Government. This is the first opportunity the present Government has had to honour the undertaking given at that time. 
The previous Government's program was expressed in June 1 975 at price levels at that time and on the basis that further grants would be provided to make allowance for subsequent movements in costs. As I understand it, the total funds involved in this Bill are $498m to be made available to the States for university purposes in respect of the year 1976. Of that amount $447 m is for recurrent costs and equipment purchases and $51m is for buildings. These amounts make no allowance for movements in costs since June last year. Further adjustments in cost movements to the end of the year 1976 will certainly be required. 
The 2 universities in South Australia- the University of Adelaide and the Flinders University of South Australia- received under this Bill in excess of $56m for all purposes. I am interested in several aspects of the grants, particularly those allocated to medicine, energy research and teaching facilities in these fields at the universities to which I have just referred. Firstly I want to deal fairly broadly with the Flinders Medical Centre at the Flinders University in South Australia. The amounts allocated to the Centre under this Bill are illustrated in the various schedules to the Bill. These detail grants for recurrent expenditure for the year 1974-75. 
Recently I visited the Medical Centre at the Flinders University and was given a detailed explanation of the problems, the hopes and the achievements so far experienced by those associated with this up to date concept of medical teaching at all levels. I think that this Centre is an example to the rest of Australia of a modern medical school complex. I am particularly grateful to the Dean of the Medical School, Professor Fraenkel for making his time available to me in order to conduct me over the complex, to assist me by answering questions and giving me some valuable information and helping my understanding of the need to urge the Government to show an interest in completing this complex. At present of the 3 phases of the construction of that Medical Centre, two have been completed and the third is well under way. I am very anxious to impress upon the Government the need to give consideration to the financial support for phase 4 which will complete this particular complex which I believe ought to be completed without undue delay. 
The history of this Medical Centre is obvious to South Australians. The need for a second training hospital in South Australia is due to the development of the motor car industry in the south of Adelaide and the development of the Chrysler plant at Tonsley Park and Lonsdale. This has meant that there has been an expanding population without any major medical centre in that part of Adelaide. It was necessary for the Government to make a decision to approve the construction of this complex. Since 1962 the Adelaide University medical course has been forced to impose quotas on the intake of students into the faculty of medicine. For these reasons the South Australian Government adopted a recommendation that a new major teaching hospital be established at Flinders, and the Australian Universities Commission accepted this project in its fourth report in 1 969. The first Dean and  Chairman  of the School of Medicine, Professor Fraenkel, was appointed in July 1970. Planning commenced immediately for the school of medicine and for a 710-bed teaching general hospital with comprehensive in-patient and outpatient services to be built under one roof on the university campus at Flinders, including a biochemical library and school of nursing. The planning and implementation has been carried out in phases. The first and second are complete. The third is well advanced. Funds for the 3 phases are assured. Phase 3 is due for completion at the end of 1977 and the Centre will be capable at that time of providing 500 beds of the proposed 700-odd beds. The whole project is scheduled for completion by the end of 1 980. 
I am concerned that plans for the final phase of the complex- phase 4- have been prepared but detailed financial approvals have not been given although the State Government has approved in principle the completion of the project. Phase 4 was originally planned for completion in 1980 but subsequent increased promises by the former Government led to a speeding up so that the work could be completed a good deal more quickly, which of course is most desirable from the point of view of South Australia. I understand that the plans for phase 4 of the project have been referred to the South Australian Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. It is expected that the State Government could find its financial commitment to speed up the completion date. Of course, doubt exists whether the Commonwealth can make available additional funds now instead of in 1980 to complete the project ahead of schedule. It the light of inflation this presents a problem as it does in many other areas. I can understand that the Government must look at this matter very carefully and make its assessment as to the priority of this project in the light of economic circumstances. Of course the sooner a decision is made and the sooner money can be available, the more economies in the long term can be effected. 
I expect that the State could fund the completion of the project because the State Premier boasts that South Australia is in a fairly sound financial position at the present time. We know why it is in a sound position. It is because the State has some money available from the sale of rural railways in South Australia to the Commonwealth Government. It would seem to me that this may well be an opportunity for the State Premier to extend himself to provide a little more money for this important project. I realise that not only the Flinders Medical Centre requires financial assistance; there are also many other projects in the medical sphere in South Australia that cry out for urgent relief. On today's values, phase 4- the final section of this project- would cost approximately $14m. This is not a lot of money when it is related to the overall magnitude of the project and when it is equated to the resulting benefits that will accrue to the people of South Australia. The highest capital flow, as I understand it, in any one period is in the year 1977-78. That amounts to $4.4m. I believe that bearing that in mind and the fact that the project can be completed at a cost of $ 14m, the Commonwealth Government ought to be attracted to providing finance for its completion. 
I think that we must bear in mind the multipurpose nature of the undertaking. The complex caters for teaching both in medicine and nursing. It caters for hospital care, for general, specialist and maternity patients. Generally, the university provides research facilities for all branches in the medical area. I pay a compliment to those responsible for planning this Centre. I regret that difficulties have arisen from time to time. In recent weeks strike action has been taken by the unions whose employees are working on the site. This certainly has disrupted the smooth operation of the project and has had nothing to do with the Medical Centre administration. I find it difficult to understand how inter-union squabbles can frustrate the construction of a building of this importance. I hope, as I am sure do the people of South Australia, that we will see an end to this sort of thing and as a result that the building will be completed at the earliest possible time. 
The other point I touch on concerns the funding of specific projects slanted towards the development of new energy resources. These projects are being undertaken at the Flinders University by the Institute of Energy Research.  Mr President,  you will recall that this Institute was formerly known as the Institute of Electric Chemical Energy Conversion. I have made representations previously for Federal Government assistance both to the former Government and to the present Government. I believe that the present Government is obliged to recognise the need to provide far more adequate research funding than has been made available in the past for universities and other research institutions throughout Australia in order that some real effort can be made to obtain an alternative energy resource to the conventional materials that are available at present. 
I recall that in his policy speech the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  mentioned that this was of concern to the Government. The Minister for National Resources,  Mr Doug  Anthony, stated that he supported research into and development of solar energy as a viable alternative to fossil and nuclear fuels. Specifically, the Minister stated that he would set up a National Energy Council to estimate energy reserves and to co-ordinate research into alternative energy sources including solar energy. Perhaps the Minister in charge of this Bill might care to comment on this matter and let me know whether the Government has any plans to fund universities in order to adequately assist research institutes, such as those I have mentioned within this university, so that they can get on with the job and have a more positive future plan in this important area. 
After a visit to the physical science department of Flinders University early this year I wrote to the Minister for National Resources and asked whether the Government could provide $ 10,000 a year for the salary of a research assistant to coordinate the research activities of that department. Of course, the university authorities recognise our financial problem in this economic climate that we are plagued with at the present time. Although they would very much like to attract a grant of $80,000 or $100,000 for the establishment of a building in which to house all their energy experiments and scientific researches, they realise that this is a bit too much to ask at present. Unfortunately the Minister for National Resources has not acceded to the request for this particular funding. I give the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  notice of a letter he is likely to receive from me. In it I ask him whether he can provide me with some encouragement by indicating that he will look at providing a very small amount of money which would be of great assistance to the Flinders University physical sciences department. I compliment the Government on its effort to straighten out the financial chaos that has been left by the former Government. This ought to be repeated frequently. Whenever it is said, Opposition senators tend to liven up and become quite agitated. 
Debate interrupted. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
-Has the Minister for Industry and Commerce agreed to meet a deputation from Whyalla led by the mayor,  Mrs Ekblom,  with respect to the future of the shipbuilding industry in that city? Has the Minister received a report from the officer of his Department who attended a public meeting on this important matter in Whyalla last week? If so, can he give any details? 

Last evening when the debate was interrupted I was referring to aspects of this Bill as they relate to universities in South Australia, and the Flinders University in particular. I pointed out to the Senate that I had been fortunate to visit that institution not long ago and was very pleased that Professor Fraenkel, the Dean of Medicine, was able to spare time to show me over the complex and to explain some of his hopes for the future. Certainly, that institution is one of which South Australians can be proud and which demonstrates that South Australia, through that school of medicine, has taken a lead in Australia. 
I also pointed out to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  the importance of phase 4 of the building project on that campus to provide a 710-bed hospital. I impressed upon him the problems associated with the added cost of that project. I understand that phase 4 has been referred to the State Public Works Committee and therefor in principle has been approved by the State Government. The project will cost approximately $ 14m and will provide a hospital able to bed 710 patients. It will be a teaching hospital for medical and nursing personnel and will provide very important paramedical services as well. I am concerned that the building project has been frustrated by industrial disputes which to South Australia are unfortunate and regrettable. The employees working on the site chose to strike a few weeks ago thereby delaying the completion of phase 3. I noticed that  Senator Gietzelt  spoke in an earlier debate of unemployment in the building industry. I wonder sometimes when the people of Australia will wake up to the continual disruption that is caused by strikes, get down to a bit of work and co-operate with employers and governments to try to increase the prospects of this country and return Australia to a reasonable economic state as quickly as possible. 
I also mentioned last night the importance of research grants provided under this Bill to that university and referred particularly to the amounts that have been granted from time to time to the Department of Physical Sciences in order to enable it to continue its important research work into solar energy and electrochemical conversion. I wrote to the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  about this matter and requested that he provide $10,000 a year so that that university department would be able to employ a research assistant to co-ordinate the research projects that are being carried out at that institution. The professors and administrators of that department recognise that the Government is faced with difficult economic problems and, although they would like to go ahead with the ultimate proposal to establish an electro-chemical conversion department at a cost of $80,000 to $100,000, they recognise that at this time it is impossible. I felt that their request for $10,000 a year was quite fair. The Minister for National Resources in his letter replying to me said: 
I agree with the thought implicit in your 9 February letter that there is a need for Australia to become more active in the energy research and development field and I am grateful to you for drawing to my attention the research facilities available in South Australia. 
I mention other research facilities as well, including the Private Applied Industrial Research Pty Ltd. AMDEL has a facility in South Australia capable of energy research. The Weapons Research Establishment also has similar research facilities. In my opinion, none of these is fully developed or fully extended at present. In his letter, the Minister indicated his interest. He said: 
The Commonwealth Government will have an important role to play in the research and development area, in respect of both policy formulation and, when circumstances permit, increased funding. The precise method of financing an expanded energy research and development effort would of course be a matter for the Government to consider at the time, but I have noted your suggestion in this regard. 
I was urging the establishment as quickly as possible of a national research council in order to co-ordinate properly a program of development with respect to alternative energy resources. It seems to me that that project ought to be carried out as soon as possible. Such a body ought to be under the jurisdiction of one Ministry; whether it be the Minister for National Resources, the Minister for Education or the Minister for Science, I do not know. It seems to me to be quite stupid that we persist with 3 Ministers and their departments playing around with research and development work in Australia in these very important areas of concern. I hope that the Council will adopt as soon as possible the policy that it outlined during the last election campaign. That policy was that our objective would be to develop such a national research council. 
The Bill refers to other States as well as South Australia. I must say that I have taken an interest in the University of New South Wales. I was there a few weeks ago. I had a look at the Sydney Eye Hospital. I also took the opportunity to examine the facilities available at the Department of Optometry at the University of New South Wales. I noticed that the facilities of the department are extremely cramped. This year it has a first year enrolment of 138 students. According to my assessment and as a result of the talks I had with the professorial staff there, I believe that the facilities available at present at that department of the University could cater completely for only half that number. The number of teaching staff and facilities needs to be increased in order to ensure that adequate provision is made for these students to enable them to achieve the standard of training necessary during their years of clinical activity. 
As I understand it, the Australian Universities Commission has rejected a proposal that a new school of optometry be established at Murdoch University in Perth. One of the reasons given for that rejection was that the enrolment of undergraduates in this subject at the University of New South Wales was sufficient to service the optometrical manpower needs of Western Australia, South Australia, Tasmania and the Northern Territory. But the University of New South Wales has now announced that a quota will be imposed on the number of new students entering the optometry course in New South Wales in 1977. 1 hope that the Minister for Education will take note of this fact. If it is within his power to visit the University to substantiate what I have said, I trust that he will do so. As a result, perhaps the Australian Universities Commission will examine again the urgent need to establish a new school of optometry at a university in either South Australia or Western Australia to cater for the demands currently being experienced by the training facilities in Australia for that profession. 
Let me conclude on this point: I have had a few inquiries concerning the Australian Universities Commission. It has been indicated to me that it is intended to merge the Australian Universities Commission and the Commission of 
Advanced Education for the purposes of allocating funds to universities, colleges of advanced education and institutes of technology from a common pool. I do not know whence this story emanated. But that question has been posed to me on a number of occasions. I would appreciate it if the Minister for Education when he sums up in replying to this debate could furnish me with an answer on that question. I support the Bill. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, concerns the provision of Federal funds to the States for swimming pools in certain areas. Can he say whether Commonwealth funds are available to subsidise State, local government or community funds to enable swimming pools to be constructed in country areas of Australia? Is he in a position to detail for the benefit of the Senate guidelines under which such a subsidy could be paid? 

 -Mr President, I  give notice that on the next day of sitting  I  shall move: 
That there be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment for report from time to time the following matter: 
The continuing oversight of Australian science policy in the physical, social and life sciences. 
The direction, priorities, efficacy, and ultimate application of Australian research and development efforts in the above scientific fields, with particular reference to: 
Comparison with other countries of recent trends and expenditures in Australia; 
Examination of Federal assistance granted to Australian research and development activities; and 
Appraisal of the research and development effort devoted to future energy sources. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and it concerns the dispute between the Storemen and Packers Union and the wool selling brokers which is holding up the movement of wool, with disastrous results on the industry's economy. Is the Minister acquainted with a reported attitude of the Minister for Agriculture in South Australia? Is he aware that the South Australian Minister for Agriculture is on record as saying that if the wool growers wanted to be paid for their wool they should put their support strongly behind the Storemen and Packers Union? 
-I could do it better than the honourable senator could. In fact I might be forced to do it before long. I repeat: Is the Minister aware that the South Australian Minister for Agriculture is on record as saying that if the wool growers wanted to be paid for their wool they should put their support strongly behind the Storemen and Packers Union to see that the  union's  claims were met by the wool selling agents? Does the Minister agree with the South Australian Minister's further contention that there is nothing the State Government can do to help the farmers in the present dispute? Is there any action which can or should be taken by the Federal Government which could relieve the plight of those affected by this protracted and irresponsible dispute? 
-Is the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development aware that poisonous European newts have been sold in Adelaide? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the article in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 2 April describing this animal as an amphibian, similar to the slenderbodied skink in appearance? Has the Minister noted that Professor Williams, of the Zoology Department of the University of Adelaide has warned that newts found in slow moving streams and ditches could have an adverse effect on the environment? As this animal is a prohibited import, can the Minister say how it was introduced to Australia? What action has been taken to locate people who have purchased these creatures in order to see that the newts are recovered and eradicated and do not become a threat to the South Australian environment? I doubt that this species would lend itself to smoking as a suggested control measure, as does the European carp. I believe it is a matter of urgency that the Government examine this matter. 

 - Mr President, as you have said, the wording on the notice paper of the motion standing in my name is not in accord with the text that I put down in the Senate yesterday. For the benefit of honourable senators I will indicate where it varies. I move: 
That there be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment for report from time to time - 
Those are the words that are missed out-  the following matter: 
The continuing oversight of Australian science policy and the physical, social and life sciences; and 
The direction, priorities, efficacy, and ultimate application of Australian research and development efforts in the above scientific fields, with particular reference to: 
comparison with other countries of recent trends and expenditures in Australia; 
examination of Federal assistance granted to - 
This is where it varies again- 
Australian research and development activities; and 
appraisal of the research and development  effort  devoted to future energy sources. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to the demand for influenza vaccinations in Australia, particularly in South Australia. Is the Minister aware that some doctors in South Australia are complaining that there are insufficient supplies of this vaccine and that one group practice has been able to receive only onethird of the supplies it ordered in February? Can the Minister say what the Government is doing to ensure that adequate supplies of vaccine are available for this purpose. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to an article in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of today's date concerning the confiscation by inspectors from the South Australian Department of Fisheries of a cargo of king prawns valued at $ 10,000. Can the Minister inform the Senate of progress made to date between the Commonwealth and the State of South Australia in working out an agreement to cover fisheries management in waters under Commonwealth jurisdiction adjacent to the South Australian coastline? Has the Minister provided an opportunity for all interested parties, that is, the South Australian Fisheries Department, fishermen and processors, to make submissions before the agreement is finalised? 

 - Mr Chairman, I wish to state my point of view on this matter. I wish to endorse what  Senator Missen  and the other speakers have already said. I remind members of the Labor Party that to my knowledge the Labor Government was the first government to reduce pensions. Anything that disadvantages pensioners in my view ought to be rejected or spoken against by this Senate. I am proud to be able to get up in this place and to put a point of view which in the freedom of my Party I am able to do but which members of the Opposition have no right to do. They are bound slavishly by dictates of their socialist party. I stand here proudly as a Liberal to put a point of view in favour of the retention of the funeral benefit. 
-Mr Southey has nothing to do with what my decision may be; neither has  Senator Withers.  I make my own decision. That is exactly what I intend to do tonight. 

 - Mr Chairman, it is obvious that members of the Opposition become most disturbed when they recognise that there is freedom of speech on this side of the Senate. I have some regard for the plight of pensioners.  Mr Chairman,  may I have some silence? I become disturbed when I am interrupted when making a serious speech such as this. 
I am speaking to you,  Sir. I  will never fail to recognise your authority. It seems to me that this matter has engendered some emotions in the electorate. In her second reading speech, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  referred to the number of people who will be affected by this proposal. In 1974-75, she pointed out, 55 453 people to whom this benefit was applied died. Of those, 27 35 1 attracted a benefit at the rate of $20-that was the cost to the taxpayer- and 28 102 attracted a benefit of $40. That is not the end of the matter. A number of those people who died were married and left widows or widowers. A number of those people would have had children and grandchildren. So, this is not a matter which affects only some 50 000 people. The number involved grows to the extent that it reaches 250 000 or more. In my opinion this what I regard to be a niggardly decision by the Government flows through to a great many more people than would first appear to be involved and affects them quite emotionally. 
I believe that there are some administrative problems associated with the granting of such a benefit. No doubt that is one of the reasons why the Minister has been advised by her Department to take the action proposed. It seems to me quite logical that we ought to follow the suggestion that has been propounded by my colleague,  Senator Missen,  that is, that this subject ought to be referred to a standing committee of the Senate so that it might be examined properly and so that we might discover how we can provide an alternative proposal so that the pensioners of Australia are not disadvantaged. 
It appears quite logical to me to suggest that there ought to be an extension of the provision which makes available to the surviving spouse benefits at the married pension rate for 12 weeks after the death of a married pensioner. That was introduced by a Liberal-Country Party Government in September 1968 when  Mr Wentworth  was the Minister for Social Services. The suggestion that the married rate of pension should be extended for an extra week in payment to the widow or widower of a married pensioner who has died seems to me to be a logical one to put to the Minister. The administrative costs involved would not be great. 
I know that the single pensioner is in a special category. But why should the Government not pay an extra week's pension to the estate of the single pensioner? After all, many people in that age group whom I know live with their children or with a married brother or sister. These people have some concern with respect to providing a proper funeral for the deceased pensioner. An extension of the $40 benefit in my view would be administratively simple and it would compensate for the action that the Government has proposed. I remind the Senate that when we came into Government the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that we would maintain essential programs in health, education, welfare and matters of this kind.  His  words were obviously most specifically related to programs for which funds had already been provided. It would have been irresponsible to come in with a heavy axe, try to break contracts and cause all sorts of disruptions of that kind. I believe that that is the sort of responsibility we are obliged to fulfil as a Senate. I oppose this clause of the Bill for the reasons I have described. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the total expenditure, both capital and running costs, for the school dental service, State by State, for the year 1974-75. 
What is the proposed expenditure for 1 975-76. 
What proportion of these funds are specifically allocated to provide dental care in areas not served by existing private dentists. 
What proportion of these funds are used to provide dental care for the handicapped, institutionalised or other necessitous groups in the community. 
Is any independent advisory body consulted in the development of the school dental service. 
What steps are taken to avoid duplication of dental services to prevent wastage of public monies. 
Does the Minister intend to make more funds available to the States for the school dental services to extend treatment for secondary school children, or has any consideration been given to using private dentists as is the practice in New Zealand. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Will the Minister, as a matter of urgency, and in view of the fact that the Government contemplates changes in the eligibility requirements for Commissioner for Housing loans in the Australian Capital Territory, assure all those persons who have purchased leases and who would previously have been eligible for such loans, that they will not now be bound by the present rule which requires that building commence within six months of the lease agreement coming into effect. 
-Has the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development seen a statement which appeared in the Adelaide  Sunday Mail  of 24 April and which was attributed to the  Deputy  Premier of South Australia,  Mr Corcoran?  Is he aware that  Mr Corcoran  accused the Federal Government of hindering moves to improve water quality in the River Murray? Can the Minister say whether his Department has any plans to improve the quality of water in Australia's inland rivers? In particular, will the Minister examine the need to alter the River Murray Waters Agreement so that legislation can be drafted to extend the interests of the River Murray Commission to water quality as well as quantity as to which, as  Mr Corcoran  indicates, lack of such a provision appears to be an inhibiting factor associated with the work of the Commission. 
-Has the Minister for Education received a circular issued by the Primary Teachers Association of South Australia? Is he aware that the Association states that 'although the Fraser Government has not committed itself to cutting educational expenditure in the next financial year it is logical in the light of recent Government pronouncements concerning general curtailment of expenditure to assume that this may be the case'? Can the Minister say whether, under the new federalism policy which was recently acclaimed by the States, there is a lump sum guaranteed for education? Are there any strings attached by the Federal Government to this sum? Whose responsibility is it to allocate priorities for capital expenditure, teacher housing and support staff, etc? 
-Is the Minister for Administrative Services aware that the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Public Works visited the Cocos (Keeling) Islands a couple of years ago. Is it a fact that at that time the cost of living for the average family on Cocos Islands was approximately 4 plastic rupees a week? It is also a fact that the average income at that time was about 6 rupees. Is he able to say whether the Clunies Ross estate subsidises the price of rice which is the staple diet of the Malay people? Can he say whether the estate provides free housing, free light and power, free medical treatment and free education for 2 children in the family and whether it also provides material to enable those who wish to do so to build their own outrigger canoes which were valued at that time at about SA800? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer to the proposed stop work meeting involving 3500 workers planned at Chrysler's Tonsley Park plant for next Monday by the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation of Australia to launch a campaign for a new log of claims. This was reported in last night's Adelaide  News.  Is the 
Minister aware that the log consists of 45 different claims, including a demand for 4 hours paid leave for each 40 hours continuous employment, 13 weeks long service leave after 10 years service, voluntary retirement at age 60 with normal retirement rights and benefits, 5 weeks annual leave instead of 4 weeks, and an increase in annual leave loading from 17.5 per cent to 25 per cent? In view of the precarious situation of the motor industry in South Australia and the attempts by the industry to rationalise its activity in South Australia in order to preserve present jobs and to provide guarantees for the future, can the Minister say what effect these claims are likely to have on the motor industry in that State? 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the future of over three thousand workers and their families directly, or indirectly, affected by the complete lack of forward orders placed with the Broken Hill Proprietary Co Ltd for ship construction at its Whyalla yards. formation of Telecom Australia, revised arrangements are being discussed. 
The total amounts of the concession from 1970-71 were: 
Did the shipbuilders warn the Labor Government in 1972 that the new policy of reducing subsidies would create difficulties for local industry. 
Has there been, as a result of the steep increase in world petroleum prices, a reduction in demand for ships resulting in over capacity in world shipbuilding and a price cutting war for existing orders. 
Will a gap of several million dollars exist between Australian prices for shipbuilding and those of the lowest overseas tenders even with the Australian Government subsidy. 
What is the relative productivity per man hour in the Australian shipbuilding industry as compared to the other major overseas tendering countries. 
Is the Australian shipbuilding industry disadvantaged by excessive industrial unrest resulting in higher contingency charges, and penalty payments for failure to deliver on contract dates. 
Would the future supply of ships to Australia be in jeopardy if the Australian shipbuilding industry closed down completely. 
Could alternative employment be found for persons displaced should the Australian shipbuilding industry cease to exist. 
Is it essential to maintain a shipbuilding capability in Australia for strategic purposes. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry is consequent upon the reply I received last week regarding the management of king prawn fisheries in waters adjacent to South Australia. Is the Minister aware that a case has been set down for hearing in the Supreme Court of South Australia on 24 May to restrain the South Australian Government in the future from confiscating prawns caught in Commonwealth waters adjacent to the South Australian coastline? Will this case, and others due for hearing in the near future which have a bearing on the control of fishing operations carried out in disputed waters, affect the stated intention to submit a draft agreement to the Fisheries Council South Eastern Fisheries Advisory Committee at the next meeting of that body? Will any recommendation made by the Committee need ratification by a conference of Commonwealth and State Fisheries Ministers or will some other procedure be adopted? 
I should like to commence my speech by agreeing with the remarks of  Senator Button  relating to the meringues. I happened to be at the same dinner party and I also compliment the cook on that commodity. I referred to this matter in a conversation with  Senator Townley.  When  Senator Button  made some reference to clasping the Country Party to his bosom,  Senator Townley  said: 'He seems to be behaving like a meringueutang'. 
I turn now to the Bill. This is one of a number of Bills that have been introduced by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  during the last few weeks which represent the allocation of many millions of dollars to the States for educational purposes.  Senator Button  referred to the educational lobby. During recent weeks considerable interest has been shown in education because we are leading up to the Budget session. It occurs to me that there have been some misrepresentations- I do not think deliberate misrepresentations- but most of the representations I have had from various parent bodies and school teacher bodies seem to suggest that the Minister intends reducing money for educational purposes. It was quite obvious last week during question time that many representations had been made to honourable senators about cuts in education expenditure. The Minister came under a barrage of questions on this subject. I asked the Minister, as a result of a circular I had received from the Primary Teachers Association of South Australia, whether he had seen this document which, in pan, stated: 
Although the Fraser Government has not committed itself to cutting educational expenditure in the next financial year it is logical, in the light of recent Government pronouncements concerning general curtailment of expenditure, to assume that this may be the case. 
That is an assumption which I believe is quite inaccurate. The Minister, I thought, pointed that out clearly in his answer when he said that the Government will maintain for education the highest possible priority with the aim of maintaining and raising standards. He also went on to point out, quite properly, that the Labor Government made what amounted to a 6 per cent cut in real value to education in Australia. The Minister, in part, said: 
So the cutting of education was set by the previous Government. It will be our aim, consistent with returning Australia to economic stability, to full employment and to abated inflation, to maintain education to the highest possible standards. 
During question time on the same day,  Senator Colston  asked the Minister 
In other words, has the Government an objective of raising the quality of education in government and nongovernment schools? 

 Senator Carrick replied: 
. Yes. Our belief is that our goal should be to achieve a standard of excellence for education for all . . . 
This, of course, is consistent with the policy document that has been promoted by the Liberal and National Country Parties to which  Senator Button  chose to refer in rather sarcastic terms. We do believe that education is a prime means of promoting individual self-development and the pursuit of excellence. We believe the individual can benefit most from the educational process if there is freedom of choice in schooling. We believe encouragement of freedom of selfdevelopment and striving for excellence in education is the foundation for a truly pluralistic society and an enterprising nation. We also believe and recognise very clearly that among other policy areas education is suffering and has suffered because of inflation. This is pointed out in the Liberal and National Country Parties ' document on educational policy. It states: 
The greatest danger to educational development in Australia today is inflation. We are dismayed that the present inflationary trends have resulted in the abandonment of triennial funding in education. 
This is precisely what the present Government is trying to do. After 3 years of bad housekeeping by the former Government, this Government is reintroducing responsible management with respect to the public sector in particular. Because we propose to abandon the practice of indulging in extravagances in many other areas, it does not mean that we are not placing a high priority on education. That fact has been borne out repeatedly by the Minister for Education.  Senator Button,  also again rather cynically, referred to clause 7 of the Bill. We believe that this is a very reasonable provision to insert into a Bill of this nature. It gives State Education Ministers some flexibility with respect to the measure, and it gives the Commonwealth Minister a capacity to take notice of requests from State Education Ministers. That is why the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  has quite correctly included clause 7 in the Bill. Sub-clause (2) of clause 7 provides:   the Commonwealth Education Minister may, at the request of the State Education Ministers for 2 or more States, direct that- 
this Act has effect as if the amounts specified in column 2 of Schedule 1 opposite to the names of those States were varied in accordance with the direction; or 
this Act has effect as if the amounts specified in column 3 of Schedule 1 opposite to the names of those States were varied in accordance with the direction . . . 
This is a proper provision. We believe that it gives the State Education Ministers the capacity to consult with the Commonwealth Education Minister from time to time on matters relating to this Bill. The Bill provides finance to the States for building and equipment projects and recurrent expenditure for government schools. That is set out in Schedule 1 of the Bill. I note that under this Schedule South Australia will benefit to the extent of $22.2 lm. Attention is being given to migrant education. South Australia will receive $ 1.85m for migrant education for both government and non-government schools. Disadvantaged schools in South Australia- again government and non-government schools- will receive $1.5 3 m. Special schools in South Australia will receive $985,000. Attention also is being given to special education teacher training. In my opinion this demonstrates that the present Governmentadmittedly following the pattern that was laid down by the previous Government, as  Senator Button  has said- is continuing to place a high priority on educational matters. It is my firm belief that in the forthcoming Budget, consistent with what the Minister for Education has said, education will continue to receive the highest possible priority. I, together with my colleagues on this side of the chamber have demonstrated in the past our interest in this matter, and we will continue to support the Minister in his efforts to achieve the aim of giving the highest possible priority to education. I support the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. To my knowledge this subject matter has not appeared in the newspapers. My question relates to the question asked earlier in the week by my colleague  Senator Messner  concerning the transfer of Mirage jets to the Edinburgh airfield in South Australia which will involve Royal Australian Air Force control to 50 000 feet in a triangular area embraced by Bumbunga, Clare and Edinburgh. Can the Minister say whether the RAAF plans to use the area for low level radar controlled flying? Is the Minister aware of the intensive animal and poultry husbandry carried out in that part of South Australia. I know of  Senator McLaren's  interest in that subject. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to the concern expressed by the United Farmers and Graziers of South Australia Inc. that low-level flying would have an adverse effect on this important industry? Will the Minister seek an assurance from his colleague the Minister for Defence in the House of Representatives that the RAAF will not undertake this activity in that area? 
I must hasten to add that the United Farmers and Graziers are well aware of the need for defence and are in no way opposing this move provided protection is given for animal and poultry breeders in South Australia. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, concerns an article by Peter Samuel which appeared in the  Bulletin  of 15 May. I ask the Minister whether the following assertions are factual: That officials in Canberra say it is just possible that the absorption of the South Australian railways into the Federal system may yet be blocked; that agreement on awards and conditions has not been reached with the employees due to be transferred to the Commonwealth on 1 July, and that Australian National Railways officials have done an exercise which discloses that the whole of the existing Adelaide to Port Pirie railway line can be converted to standard gauge for $10m over one weekend? Is it a fact that the proposals of the previous Government for a railway line from Adelaide via Crystal Brook to accomplish the same result would cost $90m for line construction alone? Finally, is the Minister able to comment upon statements concerning the economics of the new railway line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs which was mentioned in the article? 
As usual, we have been treated to a colourful, sarcastic, vitriolic speech by  Senator Keeffe.  I am surprised that he dares to rise in this place and cast any aspersions at the conservative Government- that is the way in which he refers to us- which has come in to control the finances of this country. It inherited a deficit of about $5,000m which was created by the previous progressive socialist Government. It amuses me that  Senator Keeffe  should stand over there and talk about our pandering to the privileged people. He knows that is quite false. In his own State only one Labor member was returned to the House of Representatives at the last election, and that member was lucky to hold his seat, too. There is only one Labor member from Western Australia in the House of Representatives. Tasmania has no Labor member in the House of Representatives. When I listen to the absolute nonsense that  Senator Keeffe  has been uttering tonight I can understand the attitude of the Australian electorate in opting for a responsible administration. 
This Bill that we are discussing tonight is an example of our sense of responsibility and of our determination to revert to a system of government which provides some guarantee for State administration and which gives the States some say in the amounts of money that they wish to spend on their road programs.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce is undoubtedly aware of the uncertainty that exists with respect to shipbuilding at Whyalla and the consequent apprehension of the unions concerned, the business community and the Whyalla City Council over the future of this industry. Can he say when he will be in a position to make a statement of Government policy in respect to shipbuilding in Australia? 
I can recall in the late 1950s, when I was at a local government conference at Port Lincoln, moving in a late agenda item, on that occasion in general business, to the effect that a royal commission ought to be set up to examine the methods of financing local government in Australia, with the object of providing a greater share of the taxation pool to that tier of government. I recall that on that occasion the mayor,  Mr Lin  Riches, who is now deceased and who was a great friend of mine, supported me in the motion. I believe that if he were alive today he would recognise that what we are doing as a Liberal Party is directly what he had in mind in relation to guaranteeing State and local governments a share of the taxation pool. After listening to  Senator Walsh's  speech, I believe that  Mr Riches  would be most disturbed if he were here. 
-It is true that he did not have a great audience of Opposition members.  (Quorum formed)  I thank  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who called for the quorum, for attracting an audience. I realise that he recognises the value of the speech that I am making at the present time. The experience that we had with the former Government in office was quite alarming to honourable senators on this side of the Senate because of the way in which that Government rushed Bills of a centralist nature into the Parliament. Of course, it did this deliberately with the object of weakening the influence of State governments. I believe that this gave birth to the federalism policy document of the Liberal and National Country Parties during the last election campaign. We stated: 
The Liberal and National Country Parties are keen to accept the challenge to achieve major and continuing democratic reforms. We are heartened by the significant advances in effective decentralisation already achieved in countries such as Canada, West Germany and America where centralist philosophies have been rejected as dangerous, inefficient and divisive. 
For that reason we introduced a policy which I believe will give some comfort to State and local governments. With respect to revenue sharing policies, we stated, under the heading 'Permanent share of income tax': 
The Liberal and National Country Parties propose to ensure the States permanent access to revenue-raising through personal income tax. In so doing, the existing rights of the less populous States will be fully protected. No State will be disadvantaged and the relative positions of the States will be preserved. 
It was interesting for me to read what the Premiers stated after their meeting with the Prime 
Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  earlier this year. It was quite interesting to observe that the Labor Premier of South Australia stated that the Fraser plan was a genuine new deal. The article from which I quote, and which appeared in the Adelaide  Advertiser,  went on to state: 

 Mr Dunstan left the morning's talks smiling and said the States had been given almost everything they sought. 
It was also interesting to read what the Labor Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Neilson,  had to say as reported in the Hobart  Mercury.  He said: 
Tasmania almost certainly would be better off under the new Federal-State tax-sharing formula to be applied from next financial year. 
The article from which I quote went on to state: 
Treasury officials have estimated that the States between them could get up to $350m extra next financial year under the new agreement. 
On the basis of that figure, Tasmania's share would be $17,830,000 in extra tax revenue from Commonwealth income tax collections. 
It seems to me that if 2 Labor Premiers were satisfied with the arrangements contained in this Bill, the Opposition has nothing to complain about. I recall the attempts of the former Government to undermine the effectiveness of State governments. I believe that the most sinister of its policies was that which dealt with the proposal to establish 30 or 40 regions throughout Australia comprising local government bodies in those regions which would have to apply to a central grants commission for their revenues. In other words, the requirement would be that decisions would be made for them by a central authority far removed from the areas concerned. Local government authorities could not even buy a grader or a tractor without recourse to this commission. But, of course, that policy is in keeping with the Australian Labor Party's purported intention to abolish the States. I recall the time a few years ago when  Mr Whitlam,  who was at the time, I think, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, delivered a speech at the Australian National University in which he referred to this subject and said that the State Labor members of Parliament were all working towards their own dissolution.  Senator Chaney  delivered a very well-presented speech in the Senate on 6 May 1976. He referred to this matter also and said:   . .  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, who, in a series of lectures starting, I think, in the 1950s and proceeding through the 1960s, sketched Labor's approach to the Australian Constitution. In those lectures, it is made quite clear that  Mr Whitlam  and his Party see it as being desirable that the State governments should wither away and that Australia should be served by a central government in Canberra and a series of regional arrangements through building on what is now local government in Australia. 
That plan has unfolded over the last two or three years. We believe that our policy of federalism will provide the States with a greater say with respect to the way they spend their share of the pool. It will certainly provide local government authorities with the capacity to look ahead and to plan their road programs and various other local activities in a businesslike way, guaranteed of a certain percentage of the taxation revenue. 

 Senator Walsh made some comment with respect to the Northam Council in Western Australia. I can tell him that there were many local councils throughout the more remote areas of South Australia that were very concerned about the policies of the former Government, for example with respect to roads. The Labor Government Bill that was introduced into the Parliament provided less money in many categories each year for road programs. The Labor Government, in its judgment, relied on a report which assumed an inflation rate of 6 per cent per annum. But at that time, road construction costs were increasing at between 15 per cent and 20 per cent per annum. Any Government which introduces legislation as the Labor Government did in its roads grants legislation to provide less money over a period places an impossible burden upon local government authorities to plan properly for their road works. This legislation represents a sensible approach so far as we are concerned. I am certain that local government bodies and State governments throughout Australia will recognise that they will be able to plan more carefully and in a more businesslike fashion to spend their allocations in the best possible way. 
This Bill not only opens the way for the Commonwealth Grants Commission to continue in operation as a central body. It also makes possible the distribution of money through States grants commissions. It seems to me to be logical that that should take place. Reference is made in our policy to equalisation grants. The policy states: 
It is intended that the principle of equalisation and the current advantages accruing to the less populous States vis-a-vis New South Wales and Victoria shall be sustained at all stages. 
It goes on: 
The Grants Commission will be fully retained with regard to its existing State functions. However, the responsibilities for local government inquiries will be transferred to State Grants Commissions. 

 Senator Walsh referred to specific purpose grants. For the benefit of honourable senators I will read our policy on specific purpose grants as outlined in our federalism policy. It states: 
The coalition parties are convinced that national objectives can be fully asserted and social reforms achieved and maintained with a more selective use of such grants and without heavy-handed interference and duplication of functions. 
Many of the existing Section 96 grants are now part of well-established and universally accepted programs within the States. The moneys for such programs could be transferred to general purpose revenue reimbursement and ultimately absorbed in the States' income tax revenue. 
Under such circumstances, the programs would continue in full without prejudice. A Liberal-National Country Party Federal Government would seek agreement from the States that this would be so, prior to making the transfer. 
Finally, with reference to specific purpose grants, the policy states: 
If a future initiative should prove necessary to maintain or to increase the program, the Government would retain the initiative to invoke an appropriate special purpose grant. We would use such grants, where necessary, to initiate programs in agreed areas of national need, to encourage innovation and to meet special situations. 
I hope that this adequately answers  Senator Walsh's  question regarding specific purpose grants. I am very pleased to be able to support this legislation which reflects ideas I put forward many years ago and which received popular acclaim in the Eyre Peninsula area. I do not know what happened to the amendment that I moved to the motion regarding this matter. It seemed to lose its way somehow. At the end of the motion I said that we ought to get the support of other local government associations to make appropriate representations with respect to the appointment of a royal commission on this subject. I am pleased that now we see this Bill paving the way for federalism policies which, according to the State Labor Premiers from Tasmania and South Australia, will give them a much better deal. I have pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
I would like the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  to offer a comment on the suggestion which I made with respect to intersections. I would like his views. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the report that petrol prices could double if the Federal Government adopts the recommendation of the royal commission on petrol prices, and in order particularly to conserve existing energy resources, will the Government give consideration to providing home owners and industry generally with an incentive to install solar heaters? Will the Minister ask the Treasurer to give favourable consideration to the removal or reduction of sales tax on such appliances and /or the provision for those who wish to install these units of some taxation deduction in respect of installation costs? 
Last night, prior to the adjournment of this debate, I was discussing the provisions of this Bill which relate to financial assistance to the States for roads. I indicated that the provisions were consistent with the intentions of the Government to provide the States with more flexibility in the management of their funds. It provides also much more flexibility for local government. The Bill appropriates an additional $64m for these purposes. The funds to be received by the States are: New South Wales. $ 19.9m; Victoria, $ 13.3m; Queensland, $ 13.2m; South Australia, $5. 8m; Western Australia, $8.8m; and Tasmania, $3m. 
In his second reading speech, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  pointed out one or two aspects of the Bill on which I wish to elaborate as these are quite significant with respect to the Government's policy in this area. The Minister said: 
As a sign of our co-operative approach we have accepted the requests made by the States in respect of allocations and the States have given assurances that they are able to provide properly for local government authorities. 
The Minister continues: 
More important however is the change we are proposing with regard to local government road works. At the present time State governments are obliged under the Act to seek approval for individual projects. In fact this system has already broken down. Generally, the States are simply unable to provide this level of detail because it has no part in their normal administrative procedures. We are therefore proposing to restructure the Act in respect of rural and urban local roads so that in future State governments may seek approval of proposed allocations of Commonwealth funds to local authorities. 
Over the last 3 years, local government authorities in particular have found it extremely difficult to conduct their road programs properly because, under the last Commonwealth aid roads agreement introduced by the former GovernmentI referred to this matter in a debate on another subject- the allocation of money for roads was based on a Bureau of Roads report which allowed for a 6 per cent inflation rate. I brought this matter out and I repeat it now. Those local authorities have been faced with an inflation rate with respect to construction costs of between 1 5 per cent and 20 per cent. When we appreciate that in the same category of roads a decreasing amount was made available over the years for which that legislation provided we can see that this has caused local government authorities great problems. So, I believe that this Bill will help in that respect. 
I am particularly interested- and I will not dwell too long on this aspect- in the allocation under Schedule 12 of the Bill for additional grants to be extended on the construction of urban arterial roads. This is an area to which the Federal Government must pay some more attention in the future. Let me refer for a moment to a letter that appeared in the  Bulletin  of 8 May in response to an article by Peter Samuel. In his article on the public transport mess in Australian States, Peter Samuel asks whether there is a real answer. The letter is written by  Mr Ernest  C. Marty, Non-Stop Systems International. 
Cremorne, New South Wales. I think this letter is worth reading as it is quite useful comment. The letter reads: 
The nearest thing to an answer lies in a proper re-think of the entire transportation picture with particular reference to traffic as a whole. 
The cost of improving, extending, or even maintaining the infrastructure of the rail system to an acceptable standard is unthinkable in the economic terms of today. For instance, in the Irianian capital, Teheran, the Government has committed itself to a mere 60 kilometres (371/2 miles) of 'Metro' at a cost now estimated at $2, 500m! 
It is therefore essential to examine ways of making bus services a more viable alternative to the personal vehicle. 
There are 4 basic reasons why passengers are increasingly deserting the bus: Inconvenience (the long wait between services ); slow travel ( as a result of traffic congestion ); personal discomfort; and lack of dignity. 
The prime requirement for efficient bus operation is a restructuring of road traffic as a whole. If conflict between buses and other road traffic is eliminated, particularly at bus stops, then the bus can travel at its own optimum speed. This makes possible faster turn-around, enabling more trips per vehicle to be made and thus a greater frequency of service with the same number of vehicles. Time taken per journey is also substantially cut. 
To some extent, this has been proved by the success of transit lanes in certain arterial roads in Sydney, where buses are able to move with less obstruction from other traffic. However, this is merely a 'band-aid' attempt to solve the problem. 
The only long term solution lies in the creation of 'flow arterials' in which there is no need for traffic to stop at intersections, and in which there is no conflict between the various modes of travel. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, as you were in Mexico recently, I think that you will be interested in the next comment in particular. I will continue to quote from the letter and perhaps elaborate a little on it later. The letter continues: 
This can be achieved by the installation of miniature interchanges, the geometry of which was invented by Arturo Olivero Cedeno, a Mexican traffic expert, and which we have offered- so far with no success- to the various Australian governments. 
The Olivero interchange enables existing roads to carry 3 to 4 times as much traffic without congestion and at about 21/2 times present average speeds. No resumption of property or demolition is required. It also creates the desirable separation of cars and buses at the most critical points. 
By eliminating traffic hold-ups, there are major savings to the economy in reduced pollution, less fuel wasted in idling, fewer man-hours lost in delays and fewer intersection accidents. 
Because no funds need be diverted into the purchase of propertyfor demolition, the entire amount of available funds can be used for actual construction- paying wages and materials bills. 
The concept of the Olivero system of intersection treatment was referred to in a document intitled Roads and their Environment' which was the second report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety. At page 34 of that report in paragraph 149 reference was made to the Olivero system. The report states: 
The Olivero system was examined by the Commonwealth Bureau of Road's, the Department of Transport and the Bureau of Transport Economics at the Committee's request. The CBR considered that the system has many favourable aspects in regard to traffic operations and safety and to the preservation of adjoining land and property. The CBR also considered that the separation of traffic at intersections could be advantageous from the point of view of road safety but the system could not be regarded as being universally practicable at every intersection. 
If honourable senators care to read the rest of page 35 of the report they will see that there is a lot of merit in this system. The object is to confine buses to the top level and to provide subways for vehicles turning right and left. As buses represent about 3 per cent to 4 per cent of the traffic, honourable senators can see that there will be tremendous advantages for pedestrians who can cross the top surface in comparative safety. Other designs have been drawn to deal with high speed traffic allowing for gentle curves for country areas. I know that Australia is not at that stage yet. I believe that in the cities the clover leaf type of intersection will occupy 61/2 times more area than this system. 
I think this is a point at which the Government ought to look very carefully. I realise that such an intersection will cost something like $2m but I ask honourable senators to remember the points I have mentioned in the letter, namely, that there will be reduction in idling time and in pollution. I believe that suggestion has some merit and I commend it to the Minister for Transport for his serious consideraiton. I ask the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  who is at the table to convey that thought to the Minister with the view that in the future perhaps we may establish and finance pilot intersection programs in capital cities where this type of intersection could be tried. When our economic management program takes effect- I sincerely hope that it will not be long before it does- I suggest that the Minister may give thought to providing funds for that purpose. I support the Bill. 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee B, together with the  Hansard  record of the evidence taken. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to that part of the Treasurer's fiscal policy statement dealing with railway projects in South Australia, which have been the subject of deplorable misrepresentation by the  Deputy  Premier,  Mr Corcoran.  I draw the Minister's attention to that part of the statement referring to the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway line, which stated: 
There is also to be a review of the construction standards and costs of the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway project. 
I ask the Minister: In view of the contribution of such construction projects to employment and the vital importance of this line to South Australia and the Northern Territory, will he give me an assurance that Government action in this matter will not interfere with the progress of the railway, which is of particular urgency in view of the disgraceful state of the old railway line and of the roads connecting these areas? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the provision of a television service to Leigh Creek in South Australia, which is a matter of interest to honourable senators on both sides of this chamber. 
-I was about to refer to that. Last night  Senator McLaren  raised this matter and suggested that this project could have been delayed or shelved. Is the Minister aware that the Department of Post and Telecommunications recently informed the honourable member for Wakefield, the  Hon.  C. R. Kelly, that a clearance for this installation was given by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board a few weeks ago and that transmitting facilities are expected to be established by June next year? 
-I am trying to elaborate for the benefit of the honourable senator. Can the Minister say whether this is the present situation? If not, will he ask his colleague in another place to confirm this information or inform the Senate whether there is any change in the anticipated date of completion? 
I can assure you,  Mr President,  that it is not by choice that for the third time I follow  Senator Button  in debates in this Senate.  Senator Button's  speech typifies the desperation of the Opposition and the guilt of the former Government. He has attempted to draw red herrings across the trail on the Medibank issue to confuse the electorate because he realises that the former Australian Labor Party Government released an economic monster on the Australian community when it propounded the Medibank scheme. 
I believe that what the Government has done and contemplates doing will preserve the freedom of choice which, in our ideological view, is the right of every Australian taxpayer. The health of our community is one of the most important issues that confronts this nation.  Senator Button  echoes the guilt complex of the Labor Party when he chooses to demonstrate the points of view that he expressed earlier. We on this side of the Senate believe that Medibank, having been introduced, must remain. I believe that there are some aspects of Medibank that are good. I believe further in the course of action taken by the Government in seeking to provide freedom of choice for the Australian people between the private health institutions or Medibank, or some sort of balance between the two. So, I am not convinced by what  Senator Button  has had to say. I am quite certain that the community at large is not deluded in any respect whatsoever. 
I wish to devote the few moments at my disposal to saying something about the wine industry in Australia. In doing so I recognise that this industry is most significant to Australia and very important to South Australia in particular. Above everybody else in this Senate I believe that you,  Mr President,  recognise this because of the efforts you have made in this area since your election to the Senate. 
-That is right. The  President  has lived all his life in the area that produces a large quantity of wine in South Australia. There is little if any disagreement among wine experts today that Australia produces a range of wines comparable with those produced by the world's leading producers. Australia has a distinct advantage over most producing countries in that it is possible to find the climate as well as the soil type to produce almost any special characteristic required by the wine maker. Since the inception of commercial wine making in Australia, governments have indicated a more than passing interest in its progress. This attitude is as apparent today as it has been over the century or so that the industry has been a taxing proposition. 
If one takes the trouble to look at the history of the industry of Australia one thing stands out above all else and that is that government intervention tends to inhibit the ability of the industry in every respect. In fact, the ability of the industry to withstand the onslaughts of government intervention over the years speaks volumes for the pioneering spirit of the founders of the industry and the generations that have followed in it. The wine and brandy industry has been successful in coming to terms with nature- and this is evident to a large degree- through improved technology, practical experience and an inborn, long-suffering quality devised by evolution. The reference to government interference that I have made stems from the level of federal and State taxes levied on sections of the industry in the form of excise duties, licensing fees, and special industry levies as well as taxation measures appropriate to other forms of industry. If we consider the wine industry graphically- and I am sure that you,  Mr President,  have done this over the years of your experience with the industry- it is clear that the peaks and troughs of prosperity have occurred in direct relation to some major government interference in the affairs of the industry. For example, increased production has resulted from government-sponsored land settlement while at the same time there has been monetary revaluation, increased excise, new wine taxes and the restructuring of the income tax requirements such as through the repeal of section 3lA of the Income Tax Act. The abysmal ignorance of the effect that a major change of government policy has on a highly sensitive and labour intensive rural oriented industry is unforgivable. 
-I am glad that  Senator Georges  has interfered in this debate because the Labor Government was demonstrably weak and incompetent in the management of the wine industry and I will go on and mention a little more about that. 
-That is right. I believe that the previous Government should have revised its attitude to this industry.  Senator Georges  knows very well that his government let this industry down. In this inanimate, computerised age in which we live there is a greater than ever responsibility on Parliament to act as custodian of the rights of the people so that we can ensure that taxes fall equitably on all sections of the community. The wine industry like many others in our community realises that it must have finance to enable it to function properly, but it cannot accept the situation which has brought an extremely viable industry almost to its knees through government action, particularly over the last two or three years. 
-We will come to that.  Senator McLaren  is perfectly right and I am glad that the honourable senator from South Australia, who with his Government imposed even greater problems on the wine industry than were ever anticipated, has interjected. The industry accepts its responsibility to help through taxation to finance this country but I believe as a result of constant contact with the industry, particularly in recent times, that all it asks is to be able to discuss with an open-minded government the means by which the least disruption will be caused to those who are engaged in the many complex functions of its operation. This general view is evident in the industry although there are many sectors of the industry which vary in their attitudes. 
The Government that  Senator McLaren  supports, the Whitlam Government, promised that if elected to power in 1 972 it would remove the tax on table wines which was imposed admittedly in 1970-71. I can recall at that time that there was a lot of opposition to this proposition from this side of the House in particular. You,  Mr President,  at that time were most active on the imposition of the 50c excise on wine. It was as the result of your advocacy and the support you received from people in South Australia and other wine growing areas in Australia that the Government recognised the need to reduce this excise to 25c. However, the Labor Government - 
The Labor Government said it would remove it. 
Yes, you did. I will come to that in a moment. However, you went a little further than that. I recall that  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, was going to the wine industry and saying: 'Give us funds for our campaign because we will remove the excise '. 
-Quite right. I am glad that  Senator Hall  interjected. I understand that the Premier of South Australia is coming home at last next weekend after an absence of several weeks jaunting overseas. 
I am corrected. He has had several months of holidaying overseas at the expense of the South Australian taxpayer. 
-Do not talk to me about  Mr Fraser  's activities because when I was in England last year - 
I paid my own way, I might say. 
It is interesting that this comment should have been made in this debate because I discovered when I was in England that the former Prime Minister occupied a floor of a very expensive hotel in London with no fewer than SO people in his entourage.  His  room cost the Australian taxpayer £150 sterling a day. So honourable senators should please not interject in that way because it reacts badly against them.  Senator Hall  was perfectly correct in drawing my attention to the absence from South Australia of its Premier for several months. The Whitlam Government did remove the tax, as  Senator McLaren  has said, but straight away what happened? The Whitlam Government increased the excise on brandy, an action which has had most deleterious effect on sales and has encouraged the importation of dubious quality foreign brandy. 

 -Mr President, I may be forced to ask for an extension of time if this type of interjection continues. I recall asking the Minister in charge of excise at the time,  Senator Murphy,  now the honourable Justice Murphy, what precautions were taken by the then Government to ensure that brandy from overseas was essentially of the grape and in fact had been in the wood for 2 years. Although he expressed great interest in this question and had obvious guilt in the matter, he could not assure me that the brandy that was coming into Australia was of high quality. I believe that most of the brandy that comes into this country could be of non-grape origin, and I suggest to the present Government that we ought to be looking very carefully at this in order to correct the mistakes that were made by the previous Government. 
In 1973 the Labor Whitlam Government abolished section 3 1a of the Income Tax Assessment Act on the recommendation of the Coombs task force. I recall that at that particular time I described the Coombs task force as a disaster area. I do not know whether  Senator McLaren  knows about this, because he probably was not in South Australia at the time, but section 3 1  a  of the Income Tax Assessment Act was introduced in 1953, acknowledging that the vintners turned over their stock on an average of every 3 years and legalising a 30-year-old practice in the wine industry of placing nominal values for tax purposes on the end of the year stocks of maturing wine and brandy. This practice did not remit taxes; it merely deferred them. It enabled winemakers to mature their wines and to concentrate on the quality of the product as well as finance a healthy growth rate. The Coombs task force presented a report within less than 2 months of very cursory research of the matter, which covered 141 areas of policies and projects of the previous Government. Actually it is quite amusing and almost laughable that section 31a as it applied to the wine industry was listed for consideration as item 1 13. The report stated that the Government could realise an additional $ 15m in revenue if the interest-free loans implied in the practice of nominal valuation of wine and brandy stock were discontinued. 
-I thought that was quite irresponsible. This particular matter, which is of grave significance to South Australia, was decided as item 113 in a list of 141 items which were evaluated in 2 months. In my opinion, through a lack of appreciation and research the task force wrongly assumed that multinationals held a very high proportion of the industry's stocks. Of course this was sponsored by the paranoia of the Labor Party at that time. The task force assumed that the multinationals held a very high proportion of the industry's stocks and that improved technology had reduced the maturation period required out of all proportion to the actual position. This is precisely the basis on which the task force made its evaluation. But the fact is that winemakers controlled by overseas companies were responsible for less than 20 per cent of the grape crush at that particular time and since then the percentage has decreased considerably. I cite a recent example of where Thomas Hardy and Sons Pty Ltd in South Australia took over the Emu Wine Company Pty Ltd, which was essentially a multinational corporation. 
On the second point, good wines still require a full maturation period. The effect of the removal of section 3 1 A can be summed up briefly as follows: The tax concession given by section 3 1 A of the Act enabled winemakers to place nominal values at the end of the year on stocks of maturing wine and brandy. I repeat, this practice did not in effect remit any taxes but merely deferred the payment of taxes on these stocks until the stocks were actually sold. This enabled winemakers to mature their wines and concentrate on the quality of their product. But the Whitlam Government- the Government supported by  Senator McLaren-  at the time of the South Australian election in July 1975 promised to extend the original period of 5 years to a period of 7 years to enable the industry to pay these taxes. This promise was broken. No extension was ever given. 
As far as this present Government is concerned, the industry was assured during the general election campaign last year that the new basis of stock valuation for winemakers, combined with industry company tax rates, was threatening to bankrupt many important Australian wine producing companies. The present Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  did undertake to have a very careful look at the tax structure of the industry. In fact, he has fulfilled a promise that was made by the Whitlam Government and has given an extension of time to 8 years - 
OK, but anyway we have recognised and fulfilled a promise that was broken by the former Government. 
Look, we took over the economy of this nation when it was at disaster level. We inherited a business which was in deficit to an extent of something like $5,000m. No businessman taking over from people who were not competent to manage a business is able to reverse the situation in a matter of a few weeks or months, but I believe that in 6 months we have made very significant progress in this direction. 
It has already been proven by the confidence which has been injected into the community. 
I am going to ask for an extension of time because, after all, I expect the Deputy President to give me an uninterrupted time considering the limitations which have been imposed. I suggest that the industry gained under section 3 lA of the Income Tax Assessment Act. It benefited in many ways. There were higher prices to grape growers, surplus grapes were absorbed in big vintage years, increased wine and brandy stocks were available to meet the demand, longer maturation time was provided for better results, research and development was provided in grape growing, and improved techniques in making and bottling the wine resulted. The improving of the image of Australian wine was one of the results of this section of the Act. Also, we were able to promote and distribute research facilities throughout the industry. 
What happens without these benefits? Wine makers will resist any increase in grape prices. Grape growers will ask the Government for help to dispose of surplus grapes. Builders, equipment suppliers and the like will suffer from cutbacks. Coopers, bottlemakers and other suppliers will curtail sales. Budgets for advertising, promotion and research will be cut back. Merchants, retailers and consumers will be adversely affected. Federal and State government tax payments will be substantially reduced. The deferred tax can be financed only by a reduction of stocks or the calling on future profits. Obviously the consumer is the person who will have to pay in the long run. The co-operative section of the industry has no problem in this direction as it does not pay taxation in the same form as do private proprietary and public companies. They distribute their profits prior to submitting a tax statement. The tax is actually paid by individual shareholders. 
It is wrong for anybody in the industry to say that co-operatives pay no tax for the reasons which I have just advanced. Section 3lA was enacted in 1953 because it was essential to the survival of the grape grower and the industry. In my view, the same conditions apply today. For these reasons it is my belief that the Government has to hold a further intensive inquiry into this important industry to discover whether there is an alternative way to obtain revenue with the least disruption to all sections of the industry. As far as I am concerned it is encumbent on the present Government to have another look at this part of an Australian industry which, over the years, has proved to be viable and able to produce something for the economy. It behoves the Government to have a very careful look at the effects on this industry of restructuring the taxation system. 
I  present the following petition from 25 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the 
Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources and refer to the possible establishment of uranium enrichment plants in Australia. Can the Minister say whether any decision has been made with respect to the siting of such plants? Is the Minister able to say whether the South Australian Government has shown any interest in siting one of these plants in that State? If so, what sites have been suggested? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and refers to experiments being carried out by scientists in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation on the flash pyrolosis process to convert coal to liquid fuel. Can the Minister say how advanced these studies are and when his department or that section of his department will be in a position to offer a viable proposition to Australian industry? Can the Minister say whether this process is similar to the FischerTropsch technique that is currently employed by SASOL in the Orange Free State in South Africa and from which petrol is being supplied to South African motorists? Have scientists at CSIRO consulted with the counterparts in South Africa? Is the Minister aware that the General Manager of SASOL addressed the Australian Gas Convention in Canberra last year and offered to cooperate with Australia in the development of this technology? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of a report in the Adelaide  Sunday Mail  of 21 March 1976 headed 'Australia to push for more UK migrants', which was attributed to a statement by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to a report in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 23 March 1976 headed Alarm at migrants dropa Farce', by  Mr J.  Farmer, who has tried unsuccessfully for three months to sponsor his brother, sister-in-law and mother-in-law for entry into Australia. 
Will the Minister release details of the policy guidelines laid down by the present Government relating to the admission of British migrants into Australia. 
Is the Minister satisfied that Government policy in regard to the issue of permanent entry permits to United Kingdom applicants is being carried out by officers of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. 
Will the Minister examine the case referred to in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 23 March 1976. 
Will the Minister satisfy himself that the rejection of the applications by the Department do not contravene stated Government policy in regard to United Kingdom applicants. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Has his attention been drawn to a report in the Adelaide  Advertiser  today regarding the views of the South Australian section of the Apple and Pear Growers Association on the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on future Government involvement in the apple and pear industry? Has the Minister studied the 5-point plan for rationalisation of the industry as proposed in the article? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the Government's reaction to the 5-point proposal? Does the Minister have an alternative proposal to save the industry from the collapse that is predicted by some sections of the industry? Has the Minister been asked to discuss the IAC report with representatives of the industry? If not, will he ask his colleague in another place to initiate moves to see that such discussions are carried out as a matter of urgency? 
I have listened with interest to various speakers in this debate. I believe that speakers from this side of the House have pointed out quite clearly that our objective is to provide a universal health program in Australia with a far greater choice than has existed previously. I would have thought that the former Labor Government would have used the United Kingdom health scheme as an example. Over there, due to over utilisationthere are long waiting lists for surgical procedures in hospitals- there has been a drain of United Kingdom doctors overseas. This has occurred because of the frustrations caused by over utilisation. If it were not for 22 000 migrant doctors in England the scheme would completely fold up. This has resulted in the emergence in that country of a private health fund called BUPA-I think it is the British United Provident Association. Hundreds and thousands of people are flocking to join that fund because they will then be able to have their medical treatment more quickly by the doctor of their choice in a hospital of their choice. 
Of course the same could be said about Canada which, for a long time, has had the type of scheme that was introduced by the Labor Party in Australia. Canada has recognised that the scheme became a great problem economically. In fact a year or two ago I looked fairly critically at the scheme in one State. The inflation rate at the time in Canada was something like 9 per cent and the hospital and medical costs were increasing at a rate of 1 S per cent. Because of that the Canadian Government is now phasing out the program that was so closely allied to the Medibank scheme which was put into effect by the previous Government. Sweden has been mentioned. For the information of honourable senators, 56 per cent of the patients in Sweden belong to private health funds. We have undertaken to retain Medibank but, of course, we had to look carefully at the way Medibank was operating in view of the tremendous economic difficulties that faced the Liberal-National Country Party Government when it took over. It was clear that Medibank had to be modified. I have looked at the operation of Medibank in South Australia and I am impressed with the efficiency of the organisation. I took the trouble to look at its headquarters in Adelaide and also at the branch at Northunley. In my view the organisation has a right to exist but, as I have said, in a modified form. 
These Bills before us have to be passed in order to allow the Government to take appropriate action during the Budget session so that the funds can start operating by 1 October under the new scheme that has been enunciated. However, there are some aspects of the Bills that give me some cause for concern. I have already spoken to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  about them and I must say that he is always ready to listen to any proposition that is put to him. But I feel that I must make some comments on the fears that I have about some of the clauses in the Bills. I am concerned, of course, at the tremendous administrative problems which face the funds in reorganising their programs by 1 October. I want to deal for a moment with some clauses of the National Health Amendment Bill that I believe do present some difficulties for the funds. 
Throughout the Bill the Minister seems to have what I regard as too much say about what funds and contributors should do. For example, he is able to impose a fine of $2,000 for certain breaches. Proposed new section 73ba gives me some concern and I am sure that the funds would be worried about it. Proposed new section  73BA ( 1) (A)  provides:  a condition that, where, under the rules of the organisation, the benefits to which a contributor to a medical benefits fund or a hospital benefits fund conducted by the organisation, being a contributor for benefits in accordance with the standard table, is entitled are benefits in respect of services, treatment or care only if given after the expiration of a waiting period commencing on the day on which the contributor became a contributor, that waiting period does not exceed 2 months; 
Let me take the case of elective surgery, which represents 80 per cent of surgical procedures, according to information I have been given. This provision allows contributors to opt out of Medibank because they are unable to have the doctor of their choice, join a fund, select their surgeon or the doctor they wish to treat them and be admitted to a hospital of their choice. After a period of time they can get out of the fund and go back into Medibank. 
Yes. That causes me some concern and I believe we ought to look at that clause in the Bill. There are other clauses in the Bill which I consider give the Minister too much power. Proposed new section  73BA  ( 1 ) ( k) of the National Health Amendment Bill 1976 states that as a condition of registration of an organisation 'the organisation will comply with any direction of the Minister under this Act served on the organisation'. It seems to me that that gives the Minister quite incredible powers and I fear would give him a capacity to dictate to the funds. A fund that seeks to continue to operate after 1 October must completely surrender to the Minister its rights to establish not only policy but also administrative procedures. The only recourse the fund would have would be not to agree to the provisions of that proposed sub-section in which case the Minister may refuse its registration. The fund then could appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal which would be established under part VIIa of the Bill. It seems to me that this also ought to be looked at. Perhaps my legal friends may assist me but it would appear that the supreme courts in the States may be able to deal with such situations. Proposed new section 73ba(1) (j) states: 
A condition that the organization maintain, in such form and manner as are determined by the Minister from time to time, a record of the contributors, and the dependants of the contributors, to the medical benefits fund or hospital benefits fund conducted by it or, if it conducts more than one such fund, the contributors, and the dependants of the contributors, to each of those funds; 
Proposed new section 73ba ( 1 ) (k) states: 
A condition that the organisation will comply with any direction of the Minister under this Act served on the organisation. 
Matters such as this could be dealt with by regulation. This would enable the actions that are proposed by this Bill to lie on the table of either House for IS days and be subject to scrutiny by and, if necessary, disallowance by the Parliament. This would be a much better way to handle this matter. There are many other points in the Bill that cause me similar concern although I would not oppose the Bill in any way. I believe it is necessary to get the Bills through. However, I suggest to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  that she take these matters up with her colleague the Minister for Health with whom I have already discussed them. Hopefully he will find a solution during the Budget session and will suggest certain changes which might meet my concern and the concern of some of the funds. I support the Bills and trust that the Minister will convey that message to the Minister for Health. 
One other point I should mention before I resume my seat relates to the element of compulsion. I do not know whether we can do anything about it. I was approached by the Christian Science organisation which has a religious opposition to going to a doctor or to hospital, I understand, and it seems to me that it has a reasonable complaint about this provision. If there is a way to overcome that problem which is faced by religious organisations I would be grateful for the  Minister's  suggestion. 
It was done recently. 
-Certainly. I sought leave because a similar petition to which I was a signatory was presented to this chamber not long ago. Therefore I am quite happy to read this petition to the chamber. 
Judge for yourself. 
Do not point your finger at me,  Senator. 
-Do not say anything while you are pointing your finger at me. 
-I will do that. I hope that you remember that similar leave was given previously. 
-I will do that. The petition reads: 
As members of the Australian Federal Parliament we urge the attention ofthe Security Council ofthe United Nations "to the human suffering, massive loss of human life and damage to property that resulted from the U.S.S.R. and Cuban intervention in Angola, and to the continuing presence of Cuban troops in Angola. 
We urge the Council to strongly affirm its opposition to intervention by outside forces in the internal affairs of the countries of southern Africa, and to seek from the Government of Angola an assurance that the foreign troops remaining in Angola will not be allowed to use Angola as a base from which to engage in military intervention in other countries in southern Africa. 
-That is the complete text of it,  Mr President. 
-I ask the Minister for Education whether he proposes to review the tertiary education allowance scheme? Is the Minister aware of the concern expressed by the university students' association that the current level of assistance is below the subsistence level described in the Henderson report? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that absenteeism has occurred at the Roseworthy Agricultural College in South Australia due to the fact that students have been forced to undertake casual employment such as fruit picking and pruning in order to continue their courses? Has the Minister studied the Williams report and, if so, is he able to say whether he will adopt the recommendations with respect to the tertiary allowance and other matters? Does the Minister intend to reintroduce tertiary fees, and can he also say what his attitude is to fee's for students who are engaged in post-graduate degree studies. 
-I present the report from the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment on its review of the report of the Select Committee on Air Pollution. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion. 
-Can the Minister for Science verify that according to scientific information there has been an increase in ozone in the upper atmosphere during recent years and that only a marginal decrease in ozone has been demonstrated at the North and South Poles? Is it a fact that the ozone level at the Poles has always been marginally lower than elsewhere? Does the Minister agree with the main thrust of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment tabled yesterday that the Australian Government should maintain a continuing attack on air pollution in Australia and that it should co-operate with other countries in order to keep a close watch on upper atmosphere pollution on a global basis? 
It seems quite prophetic that the Senate should be discussing this Bill today when yesterday the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment presented its report on air pollution in this chamber and also, as I understand, tomorrow is environment day- or e-Day- in the United States of America. The main thrust of the report presented by the Senate Committee yesterday was directed towards the need to develop a co-ordinated Commonwealth-State approach to air pollution. The report highlighted further measures which should be introduced without delay. Let me name a few of those. They include: Improved public transport systems with added incentive for their greater use; decentralisation of commercial and industrial activities with attendant planning controls to minimise local pollution; and improved urban traffic flow achieved through careful evaluation of improved secondary roads systems and traffic control. 
I regret that some headlines in newspapers related to the report were grossly distorted and alarmist in their character, particularly with respect to the Concorde aircraft. This prompts me to quote very quickly a couple of sentences from 2 articles that I read on this type of alarmist headline. I quote first from an article in the  New Scientist  dated 26 June 1975 under the heading  The Danger of Environmental Jitters.  The article states: 
Scientists who encourage public fears on the basis of incomplete or ill-digested evidence constitute a serious environmental problem. 
It goes on to say: 
People worry about things they do not understand because they do not understand them. 
I refer also to another article in another science magazine called  Science  in which I noticed this sentence which I thought was quite significant: 
The discovery of a new environmental problem unfortunately often brings with it both claims of imminent disaster and bland denials that the problem exists at all. 
These are 2 examples of the points of view that one is faced with on any matter associated with pollution. One of the important aspects about the activities of Senate committees is that different thoughts are examined as are different points of view with the idea of arriving at some compromise which will satisfy the demands of conservationists on one hand and scientific progress on the other. The article from the magazine  Science  was concluded quite amusingly, I thought, by the journalist when he wrote: 
Whether alarmist statements can be attributed to what one scientist described as 'the smell of a Nobel Prize' or simply to poor judgment, they have not served to increase the credibility of a serious problem. 
I say that because too frequently we are confronted with alarmist headlines that cause unnecessary concern to the public. I now refer very quickly to the Bill and to the second reading speech. The Bill provides $200,000 for 1975-76. Appropriations for each subsequent year will be according to future needs and within the Budget context. I question whether this is sufficient to undertake an adequate monitoring system throughout Australia. I also question whether it is sufficient to provide the technological capacity to monitor the upper atmosphere. I conclude by asking the Government seriously to consider this very important aspect of its funding in future years. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce which refers also to the decision by the Government to continue the policy established by the former Labor Administration of providing a 35 per cent subsidy to the shipbuilding industry in Australia. Does the Government consider it strategically important to retain a shipbuilding facility in Australia? Also, in reference to the Industries Assistance Commission inquiry into commercial shipbuilding repairs in Australia- hopefully this may provide some additional work- has the Government set a target date for the tabling of that report in the Parliament? 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That distress is being caused to social security recipients by the delay in adjusting pensions to the Consumer Price Index months after goods and services have risen, and that many medications, formerly a pharmaceutical benefit, must now be paid for. 
In addition, State Housing Authority waiting lists for low rental dwellings for pensioners become never less, and funeral costs increase ever greater. 
Your petitioners call on the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Adjust social security payments instantly and automatically on announcement of increases in the quarterly Consumer Price Index. 
Restore pharmaceutical benefits deleted from the free list. 
The State Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act 1974, eroded by inflation, be updated and increased to overcome the back-log. 
The funeral benefit be updated to 60 per cent of a reasonable funeral cost. This benefit, when introduced in 1943 at 200 shillings ($20.00), was seven times the pension at that time of 27 shillings ($2.70) per week, or more than twice the basic wage of 97 shillings ($9.70). 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, refers to a report in the  Age  of 6 August this year concerning a recent visit to Australia by a delegation of businessmen from West Germany in connection with the establishment of an oil-from-coal plant in 
Australia. Will the Minister inform the Senate of the outcome of this visit and of the Government's attitude to the proposal? 
I rise to support the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  in what he has had to say about the motion that has been put before the Senate by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I cannot describe the motion in any way other than a total disregard of the Parliament and a blatant attempt to undermine the committee system of this Parliament. One of the delights that I have had in this Parliament is to serve with members of the Opposition on joint committees when both sides of the chamber have joined together to try to do something in the best interests of the people whom we all purport to serve. I think the committee system is pure democracy. 
It is a disgrace to flout a unanimous decision made by the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances which has been established for so long in this place and which has a very high reputation for its integrity. Of course, this is not the first time that the Labor Party has tried this sort of tactic. When in government it tried to force landholders in the Australian Capital Territory to hand over their land without adequate compensation. I believe that the Labor Party was not fair to the Northern Territory people in its attempts to acquire land in that Territory. 
The whole crux of the matter is that the Government believes that the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances ought to be upheld by this Senate. I repeat that the Committee suggested that it is not concerned with the policy of the ordinance but it is concerned to ensure that subordinante legislation made by the Executive is not used to give effect to substantive matters of policy which ought to be the subject of parliamentary enactment. The Committee considers that if the Executive is to have a general power to acquire and transfer all the land in the Territory for unspecified purposes, this policy ought to be laid before the Parliament in the form of a proposed statute for the consideration of the Parliament. In that way, a proper and fair debate can take place and we can express views upon it. 
I thought that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack illustrated quite well the fact that a precedent has been set with respect to the Arawa plantation in Papua New Guinea. We suggest this is the appropriate way to deal with the situation in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. An evaluation by the appropriate authority should be carried out to determine the value of the coconut trees and the value of the improvements that have been carried out. This is the usual way- the fair way- that we in Australia have acted in the past. This case ought to be no exception. 
As  Senator Withers  has said, the Government is giving careful consideration to the problems of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. It would be unwise to act hastily in this matter. We have to consider carefully the administrative problems that will flow from the acquisition of land in that area. We have heard a lot about the feudal system that has prevailed there for some time but I do not think we are here to argue that. What I am here to say is that I support the proper way of overcoming the land settlement problem in that area and the only way to do it in my view is to bring before the Parliament a proper form of legislation and to see that just and equitable terms are arrived at. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Repatriation and refer to the changes that will apply to Medibank after 1 October. Can the Minister say what will be the position of ex-servicemen who are entitled to full medical and hospital treatment under the Repatriation Act? 
We have been listening to the usual tirade from  Senator Gietzelt.  Most if it, I believe, is nonsense. He has shown an uncommon interest in the primary producers. It is usually the habit of the Australian Labor Party to ridicule that sector of our economy. He suggests, displaying some confidence in the Government, that in 9 months we should have got the economy back on the track. We inherited a business that was running at a loss of something like $5,000m. The train was well off the rails. It is quite reasonable for the people of Australia to expect that it will take time for us to rebuild the track and to get the train back on the rails. This was made perfectly clear by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  during the election campaign. Three years of bad management, of course, must require some time to correct. The Prime Minister has promised the people of Australia that within 3 years the economy will return to good health and the unemployment situation undoubtedly will improve. 
The incredible part of  Senator Gietzelt  's speech was when he mentioned that the Economic and Trade Committee of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party was given advice by Treasury officials that unemployment should reach 6 per cent. I question that. That is an incredible statement to make. I certainly would not support that figure. He also made some reference to the inadequacy of our income equalisation program. I just wonder whether he has read the Budget Speech properly. It states: 
The Government has decided to continue the averaging system in its present form, but will take up the proposal for a scheme of income equalisation deposits. 
Commencing with income year 1975-76, deposits lodged with the Government under the latter scheme will be deducted from the assessable income of the year of income in respect of which they are lodged, and included in assessable income of the year in which they are withdrawn. 
The scheme will enable primary producers to act themselves to even out the effects of fluctuating income on thentax liabilities over a period of years. 
I think that illustrates our concern for the primary sector which at present is in a very unfortunate economic state. 
I support the Budget as a responsible document and as a document clearly designed to inject confidence back into the private sector, which of course is the productive element of our economy and was the part of our economy that built the Australian nation to the state in which it was before the Labor Party took over. In its 3-year period of administration the Labor Party succeeded very effectively in destroying the confidence of the private sector. It created an atmosphere of rabid inflation and unemployment. I believe that inflation and unemployment reached a stage that was unknown hitherto in the history of this nation. This was due mainly to the inordinate growth in expenditure in the public sector at the expense of private enterprise. The Hayden Budget, of course, anticipated that national wages would increase by about 23 per cent. That implied an increase in taxation of 42 per cent. In the Budget that we are considering the Government already has made an attack on high taxation and has reduced the overall deficit to $2,608m. The domestic deficit is estimated at $ 1,879m, which is about $ 1,000m less than the domestic deficit last year. These estimates are calculated after a reduction of $l,250m on account of personal tax indexation and the investment allowance. 
In spite of this, there is a long way to go. I am confident that this Budget in the long term will improve the economic state of this country to such an extent that the Government will be able to reduce further what I believe to be excessively high personal taxation. There are still inequities in this field. I refer particularly to the head of a household which has a sole source of income. This person is still being penalised when compared with the 2-income family. I received a copy of a letter written by a South Australian constituent to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in July of this year highlighting this point. I will read this document for the benefit and information of honourable senators. It reads: 
I am a married taxpayer who is a member of a single income family. I am deeply concerned at the way our system discriminates against one income families. 
Apart from very minor other earnings my sole source of income is a salary as a Company Secretary. My wife in turn has looked after our household and children and is quite active as  President  of our School Welfare Committee and other non-commercial roles. We are also active in Lions Club and other charitable organizations. 
I am, however, bitterly disappointed to find that the revised tax scales for 1975-76 and thereafter still fail to recognize the value of a single income family to the community. On the contrary the present tax scales blatantly discriminate against one income family units such as ours. 
We have close friends (a married couple) who derive a similar combined taxable income to mine and yet they pay substantially less tax than we do. 
The writer enclosed a chart which sets out the comparative tax position at 1975-76 rates for single taxpayers, married taxpayers whose wives have no income and taxpayer couples whose incomes are theoretically equally divided. He also attached copies of working sheets. I ask that 2 documents- one entitled 'The Federal Income Tax on Individual Taxpayers' and the other Comparisons of Net Tax Payable by Different Classes of Taxpayers' be incorporated in  Hansard.  I have already spoken about this to the Opposition Whip and to  Senator Douglas  McClelland. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Maunsell)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The documents read as follows)- 
THE FEDERAL INCOME TAX ON INDIVIDUAL TAXPAYERS 
The Federal income tax is the principal focus of interest for both taxpayers and their professional advisors. 

<graphic href="069232197608254_35_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069232197608254_35_6.jpg"></graphic>

The starting point for an understanding of this complex rate structure is Column 1, applicable to married persons who file separate returns. Here the range of the rate structure is from 14 per cent to 70 per cent. Married persons, however, may elect to file joint returns. Unlike the situation in other countries, this is an advantage; although the income of both spouses is combined, the tax rates (Column 4) are fixed so that the resulting tax is equal to the amount that the couple would have paid if their combined income were earned equally by them. For example, if husband and wife each earn taxable income of $50,000 and file separate returns, under the rates in Column ( 1 ), each pays a tax of $22,590 or a total of $45,180. If they file a joint return, the tax is computed on the combined taxable income of $100,000, but under the rates in Column (4) the tax is exactly the same. The advantage of the joint return is found where the separate income of husband and wife are not equal. For example, if the husband earns taxable income of $100,000 and the wife nothing, a separate return of the husband under the rates in Column ( 1 ) amounts to a tax of $55,490. If in that case husband and wife file a joint return, under the rates of Column (4), the tax is only $45, 1 80. 
The rates for an unmarried individual (Column 2) are designed to attain a tax of somewhat more than the tax imposed on the combined income of married persons filing joint returns. Thus, an unmarried person with $100,000 of taxable income pays a tax of $53,090, as compared to the married couple 's tax of $45, 1 80. 
The rate for a head of household (Column 3) achieves a tax in between that for an unmarried person and a married couple filing a joint return. Assuming the same $100,000 of income, a head of a household pays a tax of $49, 120. 
Some controversy has erupted, which has not yet been resolved, because in the unusual case of husband and wife earning the same amount of income, there is a disadvantage in marriage. Using the same figures for simplicity, if the husband and wife each earns $50,000, they pay a combined tax of $45,000 at the rates in either Column (1) or (4). If they are not married, the tax at the rates in Column ( 2 ) is $20, 1 90 each or a total of $40,380. 

<graphic href="069232197608254_36_7.jpg"></graphic>

I refer to the document entitled 'Comparisons of Net Tax Payable by Different Classes of Taxpayers '. I will give one or two examples. The first column deals with a family taxable income of $6,000. On this amount a single taxpayer would pay $1,020 tax, a married taxpayer with a spouse earning no income would pay $620 tax and a husband and wife with income evenly divided would pay $260 tax. A difference of 138 per cent is involved. In the case of a family taxable income of $8,000, the married taxpayer who is the head of the household pays $1,320 tax, whereas the husband and wife combination with income evenly divided pays only $800, or $520 less. I believe that that is an inequity that ought to be examined very carefully by the Treasurer. I hope that he takes this letter seriously and adopts the suggestion made in it, that a simplified form of the system in the United States of America which provides taxpayers with an option to be taxed as married couples with joint returns is the likely equitable answer. 
I will turn to several aspects of the Budget that are of particular interest to me but before doing so I wish to refer to the plight of the shipbuilding industry that has received a considerable amount of attention in recent months. I am particularly interested in this matter because I have made representations on behalf of the industry over a period of almost 10 years. Naturally I am very disappointed that the industry finds itself struggling for survival, but we have to face facts and the facts are very unpleasant. The fact that is recognised by many trade unionists in Australia is that industrial unrest, which has caused unreasonable delays in ship construction and added to costs, has slowly but surely made the industry in Australia uneconomic, and until we realise this Australia will not be able to compete with overseas countries. 
The Government has been criticised for ordering ships from overseas. However, I find it strange that these criticisms were not levelled at the previous Government which placed many such orders with overseas shipyards. The Senate should be reminded of the details of the number of vessels ordered by the Whitlam Government. I refer now to a Press release issued yesterday by the  Hon.  Peter Nixon. It states that the ships ordered by the Whitlam Government were the  Australian Pioneer,  which was launched in West Germany by the wife of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  the  Australian Purpose,  the  Australian Prospector,  the  Australian Progress,  the  Australian Emblem,  the  Australian Venture  and the  Tambo River,  which was a conversion project. In his statement  Mr Nixon  pointed out that the 4 bulk carriers which were said to be too big for Australian yards to construct could have been constructed in Australia if the Labor Government had been serious about the shipbuilding industry. The Labor Government took no initiative to provide any assistance to shipyards in Australia to enable them to increase their capacity to build bigger ships. The Minister suggests it appears that no consideration was given by the Labor Government to reducing the size of the bulk carriers to enable the Australian shipyards to tender. 
If the Labor Government had been serious it would have done something about the demarcation and industrial disputes which brought the industry to its knees during the 3 years of Labor Government. I recall drawing to the attention of  Senator Cavanagh,  who, in the Senate was then representing the Minister for Transport, the fact that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd was interested in building tankers for the transport of natural gas. I received no satisfactory answer and this indicated quite clearly to me that the Labor Government was quite apathetic to the shipbuilding industry.  Mr Fitzgibbon,  the prominent trade unionist and commissioner of the Australian National Line, has endorsed the recent decision to purchase vessels from Japan because the ships are able to be purchased at about half the cost of constructing them in Australia, they are readily available, the delivery date is reliable, and the prices are fixed with no built-in escalation clause. Therefore the Government had to give this due consideration and the ANL took the appropriate action. 
Our Government has continued the policy of the Labor Party on the shipbuilding industry by providing a 35 per cent subsidy. This represents a subsidy of $9,000 each year for each person working in the shipbuilding industry. The only way in which Australian shipyards could compete overseas would be if the subsidy were increased to something like 55 per cent, but this would commit the taxpayer to a sum of $13,000 for every employee. 
-That is a point that I am glad  Senator Mulvihill  drew to my attention. It is clear that in Australia the shipbuilding technology to which he refers is a little inefficient compared with that of overseas companies. That is an element which  Senator Mulvihill  has quite properly pointed out. 
-That is right 

 - Senator Withers has raised a point that is equally valid. Demarcation disputes certainly would contribute to the position regarding inferior technology. I realise that it is strategically important to have a commercial shipbuilding facility in Australia, and so does the Government. I am hopeful that the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on shipbuilding repairs that will be coming forward will provide added work opportunities for the shipyards at Whyalla. Some people have suggested that it could be possible to use the shipyards for the building of ships for naval purposes but this will be difficult, because the technology associated with the building of naval vessels is quite different from that involved in commercial shipbuilding. In commercial shipbuilding 70 per cent of the work is involved in the construction of the hull, whereas with naval ships only 30 per cent of the work is involved in the construction of the hull; the rest of the construction techniques is associated with weaponry, sophisticated electronics, and so on. I read a very interesting article in the  Australian  this morning. It was written by John Stackhouse, the defence correspondent. He makes quite a good attempt at pointing out the difficulties in this regard. His article stated: 
It appears that: 
In most cases where the defence argument is used it is generally deployed to preserve protected jobs that are woefully uneconomic under present conditions. 
The Government is begging its responsibility to set out for the industry a statement of what sectors it wants to see preserved for basic defence supply and back-up and the extent to which its capacity will be used during a period of low threat. 
Without doubt  Senator Cotton,  as Minister for Industry and Commerce, deserves some credit for aiding the ultimate defence benefit, which is securing a strong industrial capability by helping to reallocate resources which are being inefficiently used. 
He goes on to say: 
This should include applying the same criteria of efficiency to the Government's own industrial empire, propped up in the name of defence. 
He then points out that this includes as the most obvious of all the big naval shipyards at Garden Island and Williamstown which rate miserably low scores on manufacturing efficiency and industrial relations- the problems which led to a death sentence for commercial shipbuilding. I commend that article to honourable senators. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was illustrating the difficulties associated with using commercial shipyards in Australia for the building of Navy vessels due to the different technology involved. I want to finish my reference to the shipbuilding industry by deploring the strike that has been foreshadowed by dockworkers throughout Australia in an attempt to help the shipbuilding industry. I understand that  Mr Dunstan  has appealed to them not to persist with this type of action and I endorse this call for sanity because until industrial responsibility returns to Australia and the work force adopts the sound principle of a fair day's work for a fair day's pay Australian industrial workers will continue to suffer. 
I now want to turn to the problems facing the Australian Mineral Development Laboratories in South Australia. Honourable senators may not be aware of the national significance of this organisation. I know that  Senator Messner  and you,  Mr President,  have shown an interest in this organisation. Briefly, AMDEL was set up in 1964 by 3 parties, each of which guaranteed work to an agreed value. The State Government guaranteed work to the value of  $240,000  a year, the Federal Government guaranteed $120,000 and private industry guaranteed a similar amount. The mining boom years of 1969 to 1971 enabled AMDEL to show a surplus over operating costs, but due to inflationary pressures, particularly during the 3 years of Labor Administration, the value of these original guarantees of work have not changed and no longer provide an adequate buffer for a shortfall in contract services. It is significant to note that private industry has always spent much more than its guaranteed $120,000 a year. AMDEL provides for industry and interface between research and practice. I would like, for the benefit of honourable senators, to cite a few more of AMDEL 's functions. 
AMDEL provides the only complete experimental facility available for ad hoc development work for the mining industry. It provides a facility for the smaller company which cannot afford to carry its own development staff and which would otherwise have to go overseas for the work required. Because AMDEL is a statutory authority and has considerable breadth of expertise it is achieving increasing overseas work and goodwill, promoting exports and international relations. AMDEL offers a means whereby the research of organisations such as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation can be developed and put to use in industry. For example, sirotherm desalination developed by the CSIRO has been subjected to extensive engineering testing at AMDEL before being passed to industry. The research into isotope on-stream analysis was developed for industry by AMDEL. The professional staff of AMDEL has a high incidence of industrial background. In fact, 73 per cent of its professional staff has worked in industry. 
A point to bear in mind is that from time to time a number of queries have been raised and even formal inquiries held concerning the problem of returns from the millions of dollars spent on more esoteric long term research and the transfer of the results across the technological interface to industry. This is the role AMDEL plays. This is the area in which AMDEL works. I am concerned that the Federal Government is not paying sufficient regard to the urgency of committing itself to a guarantee of work for this organisation. AMDEL has worked overseas in Indonesia, Malaysia and the Indian subcontinent. It has established a high reputation for Australian technology and its services are in demand overseas. I hope that the Government will recognise the need to support this enterprise. 
Last year receipts from industry amounted to  $1.5m and from  overseas clients $300,000 out of a total revenue of $2.5m. It would seem that Treasury completely misunderstands the motives of AMDEL and cannot appreciate that support is required for the basic facility at the fixed work value or indexed cash value. AMDEL, I believe, can sell the rest. The South Australian Government and industry are willing to increase their guarantees. The State Government's expenditure last year was almost $750,000. The total guaranteed work last year should have been $2.1m. 
I do not mind paying a tribute to a government that is prepared to recognise the importance of this industry and I hope that the Federal Government will follow that example; I am sure it will. I believe we have a responsibility. We issued this guarantee in 1964 and I believe it is now up to us to honour it. 
-It was under the Playford Government. I am glad that  Senator Hall  has reminded me of that. That illustrates the enterprise of a Liberal-Country Party administration. I have had talks on this matter with the members of the Ministry and  Senator Messner  and myself will be seeing  Mr Anthony  later this day, I hope, to pursue this point. 
-Thank you, and I hope you will give me some support too, senator. 
Monarto- that is a point; Labor wasted a lot of money in that area. It is now up to us to repair that damage. One problem I would like to mention which I am sure has been put to many of us- and if the fowlyard can be quiet I believe that I might get this last point over- is the problem of rural telephone services. I am sure that many people in this chamber have had representations concerning the costs involved in connecting country properties to automatic exchanges. The Government recently announced an extension of the free line, if i may put it that way, from 8 kilometres to 12 kilometres. I think that is a step in the right direction but I do not think it is quite good enough. I would like to think that this policy will be extended even further. I realise that since 1973 wage costs have escalated by 60 per cent and that material and equipment costs have also risen by, I think, 40 per cent to 50 per cent. It is my view that the present policy should continue but I recognise the economic problems associated with it. If we extended this free line to, say, 24 kilometres, I believe on present day costs it would cost over a 3-year period something of the order of $150m. Such an extension would certainly solve many problems. It occurs to me that the Government or the responsible Minister ought to consider a system to alleviate the financial burden that is imposed upon people in country areas. I would suggest something similar to the policy adopted by the Electricity Trust of South Australia some years ago when it provided spur line services in country areas. 
-That is correct. The Electricity Trust of South Australia was able to offer local government authorities in country areas time to pay for expenditure incurred- a 10-year period, as I understand it. I have made some preliminary recommendations to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  on that matter and I hope to follow it up in the very near future. Maybe the Government will pay some heed to the recommendations. 
There are one or two other features of the Budget with which I was quite impressed. It contained an allocation of $9.4m for water treatment purposes in South Australia. This gives the lie to  Mr Corcoran  who said there would be no provision for water projects in South Australia. 
-Well, the honourable senator said that. Provision for legal aid has been increased in spite of the predictions of the AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Duncan,  that it would be reduced. There are many aspects of the Budget which could be considered. Railway projects are to go ahead in spite of the fact that  Mr Virgo  and  Mr Dunstan  said that they would be abandoned. Many millions of dollars have been provided for this purpose. The railway amalgamation program will proceed contrary to the misleading statements made by Ministers of the South Australian Labor Government. 
They just do not know where to stop with these rather unfair accusations. 
Is the Minister for Science aware of the visit to Canberra last week by  Sir George  Porter, Director of the Royal Institution in London? Has his attention been drawn to the lecture  Sir George  gave to the Academy of Science in which he suggested that if the solar energy falling on one-tenth of the Australian desert were converted to electrical energy it would be sufficient to provide for the world 's future energy requirements? In view of the obvious importance of this alternative source of energy, can the Minister indicate what current research work is being carried out in Australia with respect to solar energy development by Government institutions, universities and private enterprise? How much money was provided for solar energy research last year? What is the allocation for this purpose in the current Budget? Also, the Minister may care to inform me what encouragement is being given to those sections of private industry which are conducting research into this important area. 
-I ask the Minister for Science: Is it a fact that Australia has 200 000 million tonnes of known black coal reserves and 1000 million tonnes of brown coal? In view of these extensive deposits and the declining production from Australian oil fields, what research is being carried out into the conversion of coal into liquid and gaseous fuel? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to a statement reported to have been made by the Minister for Agriculture in South Australia, who said that the Federal Government's plan to assist drought affected farmers at the moment is totally confused. Is the Minister able to say whether there is any justification for such a statement? Also, has the Minister noted a statement made by the same Minister for Agriculture in which he said that he was concerned that the State Government had not received a reply from the Federal Government to a request to use drought aid funds for unemployment schemes in drought affected areas? Can the Minister say when this request was made and whether similar requests have been made by other States? Is he able to say whether the South 
Australian Government's plan to assist drought affected primary producers has been delayed because the Federal Government has not approved that Government's request? I understand that the Minister represents a colleague in another place. If he is unable to answer specifically, I would request that he ask his colleague to respond to that request if it has been received. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to the forthcoming total solar eclipse on Saturday, 23 October at 4.30 p.m. eastern standard time. Is the Minister aware that there is no safe way of looking directly at the eclipse? Is she also aware that any direct glance, however brief, could result in permanent destruction of the delicate nervous elements of the retina with consequent irreparable visual impairment or even blindness? Can the Minister say whether a public relations campaign is proposed by the Government to alert the community at large to these dangers and to inform people of safe ways to observe this phenomenon? If such a program is envisaged, can the Minister give details as to what form the campaign will take? 
-I ask the Minister for Science whether he is aware of the concern expressed by the Australian wine industry over the import of inferior wines and brandies to Australia and the consequent adverse effect on the Australian industry. Can the Minister say whether the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is familiar with the laboratory tests employed to ensure that these imports comply with Australian quality and health standards? As it would seem that the screening of such products is inadequate, will the Minister ask the CSIRO to investigate this matter with the object of advising the Minister and the Government on how quality control of these imports can be improved? 
I would like to commend the Government for introducing this measure which I believe will give the Australian Telecommunications Commission flexibility to arrange part of its financial program. The Government, or the Commission, has approved the expenditure of $9 10m in this year. This Bill authorises proposed borrowings from the domestic loan market of approximately $200m. The Commission will provide approximately 54 per cent of its proposed capital investment this year from its internal sources, including provision for depreciation of assets, a budgeted trading surplus and funds retained to meet its future liabilities for furlough payments to staff. The Bill authorises the raising of approximately $200m from the loan market. 
I wish to introduce into the debate an aspect that concerns me. It relates to Telecom's program of connecting telephone services in country areas to automatic exchanges. I have already had some talks with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  on this matter. I have made representations with respect to people whom I know and who live on the Eyre Peninsula. These people live approximately 26.2 kilometres from Lock. The original cost of upgrading their telephone service to connect it to an automatic exchange was about $5,800. This problems has been recognised by the Government. Not long ago the Minister introduced a change of policy with respect to what I term the free line proposal of the Government. Previously we provided 8 kilometres free line to such people. Now it has been raised by 4 kilometres to 12 kilometres. This still results in a net cost to the family of about $3,800. 
I remind the Senate that this area of South Australia is suffering its worst drought since 1914. There will be no wheat this year. Wool and beef prices are very low. This family cannot afford the cost of converting from manual to automatic. I made representations as long ago as April to the former Minister. He gave the matter some consideration. I am of the opinion that in the present economic circumstances Telecom should be in a position to allow the repayments to it to be spread over a longer period. I have made some suggestions to the Minister. I will refer to them a little later in my speech. 
I revert to the question of the extension of the free line to 12 kilometres. It occurs to me that it would be helpful in similar circumstances if the Government measured the 12 kilometres from the property concerned rather than from the automatic exchange. In that way several former party line subscribers would be able to take advantage of Telecom's concession, could bulldoze that part of their properties where the line would go and perhaps partly offset the cost to themselves. The family to which I referred,  Mr and Mrs Green  of Lock, is in a fairly awkward position because  Mr Green  does not enjoy good health. He cannot take advantage of the offer made to him by Telecom in South Australia that he do some of the work. If he has to undertake the clearing of the path of the new line by subcontract, the cost would be dearer than or as expensive as the cost if Telecom did the complete operation. So I suggest that the Minister look at this proposal which would further reduce the costs to such people. I suggest that the Government consider taking the free line part of the project from the property rather than from the automatic exchange. 
The second thought which I have put forward is that the Government ought to consider the introduction of a system which would enable property owners to spread their commitments over a longer period.  Senator Bishop  may be aware of the system used in South Australia by the Electricity Trust of South Australia- the SWER line, the single wire earth return line, system of electrification of rural communities- by which the local government authority was able to raise a loan sufficient to establish such a system in these areas at a cost of about $500,000. The local government authority was able to raise the money so it could offer the people who wished to be connected to this system the capacity to pay at the time when the rates were due to the council a small levy, over a 10-year period, to offset these costs. It occurs to me that the cost of installing an automatic exchange would not be very much more than $500,000 and that a system of repayment of this type ought to be considered by Telecom so it could provide people on rural properties with the opportunity of spreading their commitments over a longer period. Therefore the extraction of this money would be made less painful to these people. 
I pay a tribute to Telecom in South Australia, particularly because  Mr Coleman,  the manager there, is a compassionate person. He has made suggestions to overcome the problems of this family. If the Green family were able to do some of the work- I have already said that due to sickness this is not possible- their commitment could have been reduced to about $1,000 over 3 years, which is an expenditure of approximately $300 a year. That is as I understand the position. I draw the attention of the Senate to my 2 suggestions. Firstly, the Government should look at the possibility of reversing the 12-kilometre free line from the automatic exchange end to the property end because this would give to subscribers  en route  further economic benefit. Secondly, I think most importantly, I ask that the Minister give urgent consideration to the proposal which relates to the method used in South Australia by the Electricity Trust in the provision of the single wire earth return line system. 
The criticisms by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  concerning the raising of this loan, I think, are quite strange. I think it is strange that we should hear him criticise this measure, in a mild way, in view of the fact that his Government tried to raise quite massive amounts through most unorthodox channels. The debates during the last period of the previous Government seemed to indicate that this was the intention. The previous Government left the country in a state of economic chaos. This Government is attempting to bring back into the realm of government some businesslike procedures. With respect to Telecom, I think that the capacity that it is given through this Bill to raise loans to the extent of $200m on the open market is a step in the right direction. I support the Bill. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. Has the Minister received a letter from Professor Badger, the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Adelaide, concerning student allowances and expressing the view that the tertiary education allowance is now well below the poverty level? If the Minister has received this representation, has he had an opportunity to study its contents? Is he in a position to report to the Parliament on this matter? 
I direct my question to you,  Mr Deputy President.  It refers to the pictorial display on the lower floor of this building which has been updated and accurately depicts the present members of the Senate. For the benefit of those honourable senators who do not have the Peter Pan syndrome I ask whose responsibility it is to see that up to date photographs are displayed in that gallery. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I was in that area a fortnight ago and I noticed that many photographs were out of date, including those of some honourable senators who are not here, and I made some inquiries. I understand that the Joint House Department is responsible for displaying those photographs. The photographs are provided by the Parliamentary Library. I take it that they are the most up to date photographs and that the same photographs are provided for the  Parliamentary Handbook.  An interesting point arises out of this question. I understand that after the election honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives were asked to supply biographical notes and photographs. The photographs used are not provided by the Senate. Before the preparation of the  Parliamentary Handbook  the Parliamentary Library canvasses members of both Houses of the Parliament to supply it with up to date photographs or, if this is not possible, it would arrange to have the photographs taken. The photographs used are provided by the honourable senator or member, or by the Parliamentary Library. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Is it a fact that at present the Government exempts from the means test the first $350 of the education allowance to primary and secondary students from geographically isolated areas? Is it also a fact that the present tertiary education assistance scheme imposes a means test on the excess allowance of $600 per annum for tertiary students in this category? As the Minister is considering making a statement on this scheme shortly, will he consider waiving the means test to avoid what appears to be discrimination against tertiary students from these areas? 
In directing my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce I refer to the Industries Assistance Commission report on the shipbuilding industry and the future of cities like Whyalla in South Australia. If the 
Government accepts the main recommendations of this report obviously large scale unemployment will result. Can the Minister indicate whether the Government has any plan to encourage other industries to become established in areas like Whyalla to provide job opportunities for those who could be affected by policy changes involving the shipbuilding industry? 
-I rise to make one or two comments on this subject because unlike some honourable senators opposite- particularly  Senator McLaren  who has just resumed his seat- I have been associated with the area of Leigh Creek for 20 years. My interest in that area is not a Johnny-come-lately interest. This whole controversy arose as a result of  Mr Dunstan  wandering through that part of South Australia in June of this year. 
-Yes, for the first time for many months, if not years.  Mr Dunstan  visited that area well recognising that it displayed a tremendous interest in returning a Liberal and National Country Party government at the last election, well recognising that the Liberal and Country Party vote in Leigh Creek was better than the Labor Party vote and recognising that the reputation of members of the Labor Party in that area was at an all-time low ebb. In fact, in the electorate of Grey a swing of less than .6 per cent on the last election figures is all that is required for the Liberal-National Country Party to regain that seat. I can assure honourable senators opposite that we will do just that, particularly with the help of honourable senators opposite who persistently endeavour to denigrate people on this side of the chamber. I personally object to that. That is the story. This is why my colleague opposite from South Australia rose to his feet and accused me of lifting questions out of  Hansard  for my own benefit. I have never been guilty of lifting a question out of  Hansard.  Senator McLaren  referred to a news item on Channel 4 and if what he said is true my name possibly may have been put in that Press statement because that television channel is aware that I make many representations on this matter and have done so for a long period of time. 
I should like briefly to examine the history of this matter. I apologise to the Senate for delaying it at this time because of what would seem to be a parochial State matter. It is a matter of importance. I will relate the history of this subject to the Senate because  Senator McLaren  was not in the Parliament when all this business started. I recall that in October 1972- well before the election period and in fact before the election date was known- the  Hon.  C. R. Kelly, the honourable member for Wakefield and I made representations - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! You have had your turn,  Senator McLaren.  That is not a point of order. I call  Senator Jessop. 
If that is the case, I apologise to  Senator McLaren  who obviously is disturbed at the success that this present Government has had in providing Leigh Creek with a television installation. 
-That is right. I will go a little further and give more farts about the matter for the benefit of the Senate. In October 1972 at the request of  Mr Kelly  and myself the Broadcasting Control Board sent its technical officer,  Mr Frank  Brownless, who is the development engineer in that authority, to attend public meet,ings at Leigh Creek, Woomera and Wudinna on Eyre Peninsula to discuss the problems associated with providing television to these remote areas. It is a costly procedure to provide conventional television to these areas and at this time, it would certainly have been beyond any government's capacity individually to pay for the installation of television in an area such as Leigh Creek. At that public meeting in October 1972 which was attended by the  Hon.  Arthur Whyte, M.L.C., and  Mr Claude  Allen- who is the State representative for that area- the Government's policy was explained. At that time, for those areas which were unable to receive the conventional type of television, the Government had a policy whereby it provided the programming of stations and it also provided- I think I am right in saying this- an anount of money sufficient to provide the salary for an operator to attend that particular installation. The capital cost of constructing the translator station itself was left to another authority. I think the mining company that is operating at Hamersley constructed the building and the Government provided the television programs for it. At the public meeting at Leigh Creek it was suggested that the appropriate authority to provide the capital cost to construct the installation would be the Electricity Trust of South Australia. This message was conveyed to the Premier of the State by  Mr Claude  Allen at that time. 
I believe it was November or December following this meeting. Letters are available and if I had been paid the courtesy of being notified by  Senator McLaren  that he intended to raise this matter I would have got the letter and read it to the Senate. It was immediately after the meeting that was held at Leigh Creek at the time that I described. 
-It was October 1972. It was about that time. As I said earlier, if I had been given the courtesy of prior knowledge about this I would have had a chance to refresh my memory. Anyway, it was two or three months after the public meeting that  Mr Allen  made his representations to the Premier. He asked whether State funds could be made available and, if not, whether the Electricity Trust could provide some assistance. 'No' was the Premier's answer at that time. We were then unable to persist in that particular direction because of the refusal of the State Government to come to the party. However, when the Labor Party came to power I can recall how very interested Labor Party senators from South Australia suddenly became in the provision of a television service for Leigh Creek. I well recall the number of times when the Minister at that time answered Dorothy Dixers that were served to him by certain members of the now Opposition. 
-It was. At that time I did not participate to the extent of honourable senators to whom I have referred but I kept a consistent interest in the matter. I wrote to the Minister and I believe he gave me a reply. But then, of course, the government changed and the excitement began because of various Press statements. I can recall a rumour that was circulated from Labor quarters that we were going to deny funds for the installation of the Leigh Creek translator station. I quickly made inquiries as soon as I read about it in the Press. I rang the Telecom manager in South Australia and asked him whether he could ascertain that the project would go ahead. I received a reply saying that the equipment had been ordered and was due to be installed by the end of June next year. Telecom was not the only authority involved in this matter. The Australian Broadcasting Corporation and the Broadcasting Control Board were involved also. Some problems had to be resolved between those authorities. The equipment had been ordered. 
I immediately sought the assurance of the Minister that the job would proceed. That is exactly what happened. I am very pleased to say that the Minister told me- the Telecommunications Commission has confirmed this-that the installation of the station will now be hopefully at the end of April next year. Far be it from me to discredit any efforts that have been made by honourable senators opposite. I do pay tribute to the work that they did while in government to keep this matter alive. I do not think that this is a matter of one-upmanship but one does react very strongly when colleagues of one's Party in South Australia and oneself happen to be discredited by the Premier of South Australia for purely political purposes and obviously in fear of his life that he is going to lose the next election, which is a very strong possibility. 
I rise to support the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2). A lot of nonsense has been spread about by Australian Labor Party supporters saying that the Government has destroyed Medibank. I find that pretty hard to swallow, because the Government has not only maintained Medibank but also improved it. Now, through Medibank, patients can opt for their own doctor in a hospital of their choice, in a bed of their choice, and have the additional choice of a private health fund if they so desire. Naturally, when taking over a wrecked economy, the Government had to take drastic steps to correct the excesses of the former Labor Government. Proper business procedures had to be introduced, and one of the economic problems that had been created was the health scheme which was turning into an economic dragon with an insatiable appetite and which threatened to devour massive slabs of our revenue. Therefore the Government had to reorganise the health scheme in an economic package. I think that we often lose sight of the fact that the health scheme is part of a three-fold economic package including the family allowance and tax indexation. Both of these latter measures will in the long term greatly assist the family man. 
This Bill also recognises the needs of the low to medium income groups. In her second reading speech the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said: 
Because of its concern to keep the cost of this type of insurance within the reach of those with low to medium incomes, the Government decided to give a subsidy to hold the family contribution rate to $2.60 a week and the single contribution rate to $1.30 a week. This level of hospital insurance will cover contributors for public hospital charges in shared ward accommodation where they choose to be treated by their own doctor. 
When this Bill was discussed in June I voiced some objections to certain clauses which, in my view, gave the Minister inordinate powers. As I appreciated the urgency of these Bills because of budgetary considerations and the desire of the Government to implement administrative changes by 1 October I offered no resistance to these measures, having had an assurance from the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and  Senator Guilfoyle  that those objections would be obviated during the Budget session. The Bill to which 1 am referring gives effect to amendments which satisfy all but one of my concerns. I will refer to that later. I realise that there are difficulties associated with the legislation. 
I would now like to refer to the second reading speech. This is in no way a reflection on the Minister; if anything, it reflects on the speech writer in the Department. I found the speech somewhat disjointed. It commences with an explanation of clause 13 on page 5 of the Bill and proceeds, missing explanations of some important amending clauses, to clause 22 on page 13 of the Bill. It then returns to clause 12, then back to clause 3 which includes definitions of 'the standard hospital benefits table' and 'the standard medical benefits table ' which are also involved in clause 12. Reference is then made to clause 5 on page 4 of the Bill where this Bill amends section 57b. I do not need to go any further than that except to suggest to the departmental author that in future a more sequential presentation of the second reading speech would be of great assistance to the Senate. 
I turn now to the specifics of the Bill as they concerned me in June. It appears that either the clauses which I queried in the original debate have been directly amended to cover the points raised relating to health funds or the effects of amendments to other sections of the Act will meet previous objections. On page 2233 of  Hansard  I outlined objections I had to section 73 ba, which gave the Minister power to impose a fine of $2,000 on funds for certain breaches, and also to sections 73ba (1) (g) and 73BA (1) (k), which gave the Minister what I believed to be incredible powers. True to his word, the Minister for Health examined the measures during the winter recess and has now presented changes which meet all major objections. However, there are still a few grey areas that might be given consideration. For instance, this Bill will mean that Medibank Private is in effect absorbed by Medibank itself which, it seems, will make it difficult to assess the actual costs of Medibank Private. If these costs could be assessed separately, Medibank Private could then be absolutely competitive with private health funds. At present the costs shown could be somewhat misleading. For example, doubt would exist about the division of costs and administrative charges in respect of such things as the printing of pamphlets, postage, overtime and counter work, such as the filling in of forms which absorbs an appreciable amount of time. I would bc appreciative if the Minister would give this matter consideration. The Minister for Social Security may be able to explain it now. There may well be an explanation in the Medibank estimates from which any honourable senator could clearly see the separate costs of Medibank Private, and Medibank itself. 
I am concerned with the pamphlet published by the Department in August. I do not think it clarifies properly the position of pensioners. The Minister may have already done something about this, but when dealing with pensioners it is necessary to be very explicit and to use simple terms so that they can fully understand Medibank. This would be helpful to those people who are considerably confused with respect to the change in their position. I ask the Minister whether she could do something about the distribution to all pensioners of a more simplified pamphlet. The last point that I raised during the June debate is one that I referred to before and in respect of which I am still not satisfied. It concerns people such as Christian Scientists. I recognise fully the administrative problems associated with these people. However, I would be grateful if the Minister for Health would keep this matter under review in the hope that ultimately he will find a way to overcome the compulsion for these people to belong to Medibank when they object through religious beliefs to attending a doctor or going to hospital. I do not think it is an insurmountable problem and I hope that the Minister will find a solution for them. 
These Bills when passed will provide the foundation for a more effective and rational health service in Australia. I thank the Minister for Health and  Senator Guilfoyle  for their cooperation in re-examining the passages that previously were of concern to me and other honourable senators. I have great pleasure now in supporting the Bills before the Senate. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development noted recent reports that air pollution levels in Sydney and Adelaide have exceeded safety levels recommended by the World Health Organisation? Has the Government established a national standard as a goal for air quality in Australia? What measures have been taken by the States and the Commonwealth to ensure that air pollution does not pose a threat to public health? Will the Minister ask his colleague in the other place to list this subject on the agenda for discussion with State environment Ministers at the next meeting of the Australian Environmental Council, if that is the appropriate forum, with the object of introducing appropriate legislation in the States and the Commonwealth to deal with this important matter? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of the cryogenic treatment of worn out tyres being developed in the Laboratories of Commonwealth Industrial Gases in Sydney. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the work undertaken by the Victorian Country Roads Board whereby this crumbed rubber product is amalgamated with bitumen emulsion for road surfacing as this process is used extensively in the State of Arizona in the United States, and is a proven technique, and in consideration of the high costs of bitumen in Australia and the consequent savings in money and bitumen that would result from this type of road surfacing, will the Minister take action to initiate discussions with the object of providing encouragement for expanding the use of this technique, not only in Victoria but also in the other States and the Commonwealth Territories. 
Has any approach been made to him for assistance in establishing the process in Australia 
Will the Minister give consideration to the provision of funds sufficient to enable a visit to the Arizona Roads Authority in the United States by a representative of the federal Department of Transport and a roads engineer of the Victorian Country Roads Board, with the view to making the information obtained by such a visit available to the State and Commonwealth road authorities. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and, by way of preface, I state that in my professional capacity I have examined patients who have suffered from eclipse scotoma which is the result of direct viewing of an eclipse of the sun, causing irreparable damage to the retinal tissues. Consequently I am very conscious of the dangers that will be presented, particularly to children, on 23 October when the next eclipse will occur. Because of my concern, I ask: Is the Minister aware of an eclipse viewer that is on sale in Australia and to which some publicity has been given? Can the Minister comment on this device? 
-I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he has had an opportunity to study the Australian Council of Trade Unions proposals with respect to the shipbuilding industry. Does the Government intend to make a statement on the matter? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science who will recall that some time ago I questioned the effectiveness of measures taken by the Government to ensure that imported wines and brandies complied with Australian health and quality standards. Is it a fact that the Minister has agreed to send an officer of his Department to the United States of America to examine analytical techniques used in that country? Can the Minister give details of the officer's itinerary? If his itinerary does not include consultations with the Wine Institute of California, which is the counterpart of the Australian Wine Research Council, will the Minister see that the itinerary is extended to enable the officer to have talks with members of that body? 
-I ask the Minister for Science whether he has seen a Press report in which it is alleged that an officer of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation accused the Victorian Forestry Commission of a cover up with respect to the forest disease thytophthora cinnanomi If the Minister finds it difficult to pronounce the name he can use the initials TC. Can the Minister give me any information on this matter? 
-The Minister for Social Security may be aware of the confusion that exists with respect to the adoption of children from overseas. I refer particularly to an article that appeared in the  Australian  last week headed: 'Adoption battle: Children may be left homeless'. The first paragraph reads: 
Fears are growing that about 200 Asian children waiting to be adopted in Adelaide will stay officially homeless. 
Can the Minister explain the Government's responsibilities with respect to the adoption of these children. What steps can be taken to improve the existing procedures that seem to be causing concern? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of the success achieved in placing unemployed school leavers in jobs as a result of a community service project called 'Operation Youth Power' conducted by ADS television channel 7 in Adelaide? Is the Minister aware that the scheme covered school leavers aged between 16 and 21 years and operated between January and March 1976? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the claim that 979 persons were referred to 421 job vacancies and 316 persons were placed in employment as a result of the channel 7 job seekers program? Will the Minister investigate this matter with a view to encouraging the implementation of similar programs in other States and expanding the program to cover temporary employment for students during university and school vacations? 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for Transport agree that Commonwealth projects such as road works and railways provide employment opportunities and, as such, should be given a high priority in the Government's program? Has the Minister studied the report on the proposed routes for the Stuart Highway presented to Parliament last week? Is he aware that 2 alternatives were suggested out of a total of 8 routes considered? Realising that the State Government is also involved in this project, can the Minister say who is responsible for making the decision regarding the appropriate route to be followed? When is a decision likely to be made? In view of the condition of the existing road link between Port Augusta and the Northern Territory, which has always been a national disgrace, will the Minister ask his colleague in another place to exercise his influence to ensure that an early start is made on this important national highway? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. I refer to a statement made  on an Australian Broadcasting Commission television program at the weekend about an object in space observed at an estimated distance of 50 000 million light years from the earth. Is this the same object to which the Minister referred last week when he stated that the estimated distance from the earth 's surface was 10 000 million light years? Can the Minister say which estimate is accurate? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to an answer given by the Minister to a question yesterday about the Government's attitude to the recognition of the state of the Transkei when independence is granted by the Republic of South Africa on 26 October. Is the Minister aware of the statement by the African Chief of the Transkei, Kaiser Matanzima earlier this year: 
Transkein people have a right to decide their fate and nobody has the right to oppose their decision. 
Is the Leader of the Government also aware that the Chief said: 
It passes my comprehension why the anti-colonial United Nations clings to the imperial relics so passionately and rejects the Transkei which is doing nothing more than regaining sovereignty over its territory. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government been drawn to an answer given by the Chief to a question on 4 October this year, as reported in a magazine interview, asking whether independence was being foisted upon him by the South African Government, in which the Chief said: 
Not at all- if you read the Transkei Legislative Assembly reports as far back as 1930 you will find motion after motion requesting the South African Government to grant the Transkei self-government as a precursor to full independence. 
In view of these statements and many others that I could quote, I ask: In what way does the Transkei fail to fulfil the Australian criteria for recognition as an independent nation? In what way does the Transkei differ from Papua New Guinea in relation to Australia? 

 -Mr President, I direct a question to you. I refer to an article in the  Daily Mirror  yesterday headed 'Licking the Senate into Shape'. Is it a fact that Parliament House attendants have to lick 140 000 replacement pages into a tourist pamphlet due to an error which informs visitors to Parliament House that there are 60 senators, rather than 64? Are you able to inform the Senate whether this pamphlet was prepared by the House of Representatives? If so, do you feel that the 127 members of the House of Representatives should lick these replacement pages into the pamphlets, unaided by the Senate, as a full penance for their ignorance? 
My question to the Minister for Social Security relates to an answer given by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs concerning the problem faced by his Department due to maternity leave. Has the Minister received any complaints from female public servants who have to carry the can on behalf of people who are enjoying maternity leave, particularly because of Public Service ceiling restrictions? Is the Minister in a position to inform the Senate of the annual cost of maternity allowance and paternity allowance since they were introduced by the former Government? Can she say what the projected cost will be for this year? Has she considered reviewing the maternity leave provisions to ensure that female employees in the Public Service are able to attract that leave but only after, say, a qualifying period in the Public Service? 
I refer briefly to the need to examine and improve the role of the Estimates committee system in this Senate. In doing so I compliment my colleague,  Senator Wright,  on the way in which he described the responsibility of the Senate to exert a continuing oversight of the expenditure of government departments. I also compliment  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack on his support of what  Senator Wright  had to say. I think it appropriate to discuss the function of Estimates committees at this particular stage when we are dealing with the report of Estimates Committee A which includes the estimates of the Parliament. In the report of Estimates Committee F emphasis was placed on this matter. A week or so ago  Senator Rae  presented that report in the Senate and highlighted matters related to this aspect. I note that  Senator Sim  also referred to it in the report of Estimates Committee F. It was agreed that the recommendations of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System regarding the scrutiny functions of Estimates committees could be enhanced and made more effective by providing them with a full time function and a full time staff. The importance of the continuing role of Estimates committees was also pointed out. The report of Estimates Committee F stated: 
The Senate's attention is particularly drawn to the fact that the sum of the Special Appropriations in 1975-76 ($1 1,424,350,000) was 36 per cent greater than for Appropriation Bills (Nos 1-4) 1975-76  ($8,288,738,000)  and the Advance to the Treasurer ($69,077,000). To formally refer Special Appropriations to the Estimates Committees would, the Committee considers, enable the Senate to maintain a constant, better and wider surveillance in this area of expenditure from the public purse. 
This has been referred to time and time again and we have highlighted in the Senate the need to examine the appropriations to special authorities as well. Therefore it is my view that it should be our responsibility as a House of review to exert a continuing oversight of all government expenditure. This would be particularly so if we adopted the recommendation of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System that the Senate should no longer participate in the Public Accounts Committee. Clause 176 of that report states: 
Retention of Senate estimates committees provides balance of scrutiny as the Senate would no longer participate in the Public Accounts Committee. The examination of estimates, line by line, is not the main task of the proposed Public Administration Committee. There is therefore a clear and complementary role for the Senate estimates committees. 
Clause 180 states: 
It is proposed that estimates committees of the Senate be appointed for the duration of a Parliament and that sections of the Appropriation Bills be referred to them from time to time at the discretion of the Senate. It is also proposed that, although time limits must necessarily be placed on the reporting of the estimates contained in Appropriation Bills, there should be a total continuing examination of government funded authorities which are not Departments of State. 
I have been a member of the Senate for a number of years now and I have overheard officers of departments after being examined by estimates committees heaving sighs of relief upon leaving the examination room and commenting with obvious elation that they were not asked to follow up questions on matters raised which almost exposed discrepancies in the way moneys had been expended by various departments.  Senator Wright  exposed one or two matters referred to in the Auditor-General's report. He highlighted mismanagement and carelessness which typified the reign of the Whitlam Labor Administration. He referred to extravagances of expenditure on hovercraft services in the Torres Strait and the escalating cost of a national gallery from $1 lm to the order of $26m or $27m. He also highlighted the expenditure of $71,000 unnecessarily on rental of offices for the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
I suggest that if Senate Estimates committees had research staff on a full time basis they would benefit. This would not require an inordinately large number of additional staff. It occurs to me that members of the Senate and the Parliament should not be beholden to the Executive for the staffing required to perform their duties here. I have always maintained that the Senate and the House of Representatives- the Parliament itself- should be masters of their own destiny. I do not think it is a great request to expect that staff should be supplied to us to enable us to perform our duties in a more effective manner. If we were able to provide Estimates committees with permanent staffing this would provide the members of those committees with the back-up support necessary to enable them to deal more effectively with departmental estimates. If that were done the departments would not be able to bluff their way through as they do from time to time at committee examinations. I think that the knowledge in the departments that this support was provided to us would certainly make the departmental officers far more careful about their expenditure. Perhaps it would be a good idea for the Estimates Committees to be given the power to send for persons, papers and records. I think  Senator Georges  alluded to this matter last night when he spoke on this subject. I think he suggested- I do not want to quote his speech because I do not want to advertise him too muchthat our Estimates Committees ought to be given far greater powers to call for papers, persons, etc., in order to enhance the operations of this committee work. It may well be that the Standing Orders Committee ought to consider making some amendment to the Standing Orders to provide for that facility. 
The unfortunate facts are that the Estimates Committees look, as I have said previously, at only $8,000m-odd out of a total expenditure of $23,000m. We hold only very brief hearings and we have no real effective research support staff. Because of the way in which the Estimates Committees are now constituted, we find ourselves in a position where we cannot ascertain very much. I think it is quite significant that in the committee system as it is presently constituted, we are dealing with only a very small percentage of the whole gamut of government expenditure. The Appropriation Bills are listed here. I shall cite one example connected with education. The sum of $3 80m is appropriated. Yet if we look in the special appropriations for the Department of Education we find sums in excess of $540m. There is another quite considerable sum. 
Speaking to the point of order, if I may,  Mr Chairman,  I am speaking to a line concerned with Parliament which I understand is included in the report of Committee A. Is that not correct? 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Before I took the Chair I understand that the Committee had agreed to deal with these estimates line by line. At present we are dealing with pages 13 to 28 of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1), divisions 130 to 161. The item with which  Senator Jessop  is now dealing is outside those divisions. I have allowed him to continue, but I intended to remind the Committee when he sat down that we were dealing with divisions 130 to 161.  Senator McLaren  has taken a point of order. I must uphold it. I think it would be in the interests of the Committee if you,  Senator Jessop,  were to finish what you are saying now, and then we will move onto the other items. 
I thank you for your consideration,  Mr Chairman.  I think I have made my point. I will resume my seat, hoping that the Committee will take note of the need to improve the functioning of the Estimates Committees. 
I refer to division 101- Senate, item 1- Salaries and Payments in the nature of Salary. I would like to expand on what I was saying last night with respect to the role of the Senate Estimates Committees. A lot of evidence was given during the hearings of the Estimates Committees of unwarranted expenditure. I think that  Senator Wright  has brought out this situation quite clearly. The particular matter to which I was referring last night was support for the idea of expanding the Senate Estimates Committees to enable them to exert a continuing oversight on such departmental expenditures. Earlier  Senator Baume  quite properly remarked on the role of the Joint Committee on Public Accounts which is a committee set up to deal with the AuditorGeneral's report. Of course, that is dealing with history. I agree with  Senator Wright  who pointed out that irregularities have persisted over many years without any attempt to correct them. 
My view is that the Senate Estimates Committees should be staffed properly in order to expand their activities. I do not think that it would be a very expensive operation. I suggest that perhaps a class 10 officer could be placed in charge of each of the Estimates Committees. Perhaps there could be a pool of two or three class 7 research officers and a stenography pool to service them. In my view, this would enable the Estimates Committees to be alerted on a continuing basis to expenditure that seemed to be out of order. At the request of the Committee concerned, then departments could be called when necessary to explain the nature of their expenditures on a continuing basis. I think it is worth noting that, when the Estimates Committees were first established in 1970, despite the recommendation from the Senate Standing Orders Committee at that time that these committees should not be set up, they were set up. The Senate then rejected the idea that the Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees should examine annual Estimates. I think it was quite clear at that time and it ought to be quite clear now that the basic function of the Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees is to look at existing and proposed policies and policy matters. 
I noted last night that  Senator Sim,  the  Chairman  of Estimates Committee A, supported the views expressed by Estimates Committee F when it made this recommendation. But he suggested that perhaps as an interim proposition the Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees should be required to look at Estimates or particular details of Estimates from time to time. Knowing the workload of the Committee of which I have the honour of being Chairmanthe Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment- I feel that those Committees would not have any time in which to deal with these important matters. I am just reinforcing what I said last night and I ask the Minister for Administrative Services to give my remarks serious consideration. I think it could be carried out with relatively few additional staff and little more expense. It could save the Government millions of dollars annually. 
I rise for a few moments to refer to division 662, Australian National Railways, and to assure  Senator Bishop  that I am just as interested as he is in the progress of the construction of the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway and the Crystal Brook-Adelaide railway. I am sure that he would concede that point. I too was concerned about the reports to the effect that the standard of construction could possibly suffer as a result of economies that may be effected. I took up that matter immediately with the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and sought his assurance that we would not make the mistake that was made years ago in relation to the existing railway line which was of sub-standard construction. We have seen the folly of that, because it has been washed away on numerous occasions and has caused tremendous inconvenience and disruption to traffic to the Northern Territory. I assure the Senate that I want to see those projects completed as quickly as possible. I was reassured by the Minister recently that the Tarcoola-Alice Springs project is expected to be completed by 1981. 
I was also interested in the remarks of my colleague,  Senator Kilgariff,  who has also been a great advocate for transport systems between the Northern Territory and South Australia, when he referred to the matters mentioned in the statements made, I think by the  Chairman  of the Australian National Railways Commission at Port Augusta. I propose to read for the benefit of honourable senators a Press statement dated 27 October which I think will clarify the position. It reads: 

 Mr Peter Nixon, Minister for Transport, said today that he had not received a proposal to close the Central Australian Railway. 
The people of the Northern Territory can be assured that the Government will continue to provide the best transport facilities possible to cater for their needs ',  Mr Nixon  said. 
No changes will be made to existing arrangements without my authorisation ',  Mr Nixon  said. 

 Mr Nixon was commenting upon recent reports that the  Chairman  of the Australian National Railways Commission had told a representative of the Australian Workers Union that the line from Port Augusta to Alice Springs would be terminated at Manguri next year. 
I repeat my previous statement on this matter- I have not received any proposal to close the line ',  Mr Nixon  said. 

 Mr Nixon said that ANRC, as part of its normal business arrangements, were examining the cost of the line to Alice Springs and considering ways and means of producing savings. 

 Mr Nixon said that the Central Australian Railway is a severe drain on Australian National Railway resources. For example, in 1974-75 the operating loss on the line was almost $5 million. The main difficulty associated with this line is the narrow gauge section from Marree to Alice Springs due to its light construction, severe speed limitations and high maintenance costs. 
Before any decision is made on any proposal for the establishment of a transfer point or on other changes to the existing arrangements, a thorough study will be undertaken that will examine in detail the economic and social issues involved ',  Mr Nixon  said. 
I think that clears up the confusion that was created perhaps by a misreport, I suggest, of what  Mr Smith  intended. As far as the AdelaideCrystal Brook line in South Australia is concerned, I also was worried that the establishment of another committee to have a look at this project might interfere with it. Of course, it is necessary to investigate everything thoroughly. I have received representations from Crystal Brook, Port Pirie and other parts of South Australia in the area which will be affected, with requests to consider the economics of converting the existing line to standard gauge by, for example, moving a rail. These proposals were put forward by competent people. One was a retired ANR engineer who sent me a very substantial submission which I referred to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who undertook to examine the proposal by referring it to the committee for consideration because of the economies that it could effect. He assured me in a letter of 30 September that the terms of reference for that committee would be decided soon. He said that when the composition of the committee was finalised he would make some announcement and he hoped that would be in the very near future. I urge the Government to make a decision on that matter. 
I think it was  Senator Bishop  who referred to delays which appeared to have been occurring in May this year. I remind the Committee that the Government put out a multi-million dollar tender for civil construction works on the TarcoolaAlice Springs railway line. I also was worried when I read that the South Australian Minister for the Environment,  Mr Simmons,  had requested that a further environmental study be made before work proceeded. There are aspects of this matter which have to be considered. I assure  Senator Bishop  and his colleagues from South Australia who sit on the Opposition side that I share their concern about these projects and I certainly will join them in continuing to keep the Government on its toes to ensure that the program is completed as early as possible. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of Press reports indicating that an ore dump at Port Pirie in South Australia contains dangerously high levels of radioactivity? Has the Minister been in contact with the South Australian Government regarding this matter? Can the Minister inform the Senate of how this situation arose and what steps are being taken to render the area safe? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether he recalls the emphasis that has been placed by  Senator Messner  and myself upon the importance of the Australian Mineral Development Laboratories in South Australia as a facility whereby research and development are adapted for industrial purposes? Is he aware of the tripartite basis upon which this institution was established, whereby the Federal Government, the State Government and industry provided funds for its establishment and also a guarantee of work for that institution. Following representations to the Prime Minister and other Ministers involved in the activities of these laboratories, has the Government made a decision regarding its involvement in this unique research institution, bearing in mind that the Federal Government has fallen a little behind the other partners with respect to the financing of that institution? 
I support  Senator Rae's  motion. We have had ample evidence of concern expressed on both sides of the chamber about the Estimates with which the Parliament deals. It is quite incredible that roughly SI 1.5 billion escapes the particular scrutiny of Parliament. I believe that we are protectors of the taxpayers. For that amount of revenue to escape the attention and close scrutiny of the Parliament, I think, is quite inexcusable. It is high time something was done about it. The motion requests the Committee to endorse the principle that the Senate should expand its role to examine the special appropriations and to examine in far greater detail the expenditure of statutory authorities. I was a member of Senate Estimates Committee F. We drew attention, in a fairly mild way, to the Auditor-General's report. Page 2 of our report states: 
During its consideration of the estimates of the departments which were being examined, the Committee referred on several occasions to critical comments made by the Auditor-General in his report for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
The Committee received explanations of the criticisms and details of the remedial action which had been implemented by the departments cited by the Auditor-General in his report. The detailed answers given in response to the Committee 's questioning are contained in the  Hansard  report. 
We finished that paragraph by making this tentative comment: 
The Committee trusts that it will not be again necessary for it to raise these specific matters on any future occasion. 
I notice that Estimates Committee E was a little more specific in its criticism. It had more reason to be critical.  Senator Wright  has mentioned the areas of concern that his Committee had and has very forcefully brought to the attention of the Committee of the Whole the need to support the principle behind this motion. I believe the Standing Orders Committee has a responsibility to examine the matters raised in this motion. I hope that it would bring back a report to the Senate fairly quickly. I am looking forward to that report. I am anxious that the motion be supported by the Standing Orders Committee and that something constructive be done to ensure that this incredible amount that goes through the Executive's hands comes under more direct scrutiny of the Parliament. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources whether his attention has been drawn to a Press statement dramatically headed: 'Nuclear Blast Killed, Maimed' in which a Russian biochemist working in Britain is reported to have stated that hundreds died and thousands were affected by radiation in a major Soviet nuclear fuel waste accident in 1958. Has the Minister noted that the article described an enormous explosion near a town where nuclear waste had been buried for many years? Can he indicate the possible cause of the explosion? Is he able to say whether nuclear waste material can spontaneously explode? 
I rise to support the Bill before the Senate. I listened with great interest to the contributions to this debate from both sides of the Senate. I was particularly interested in the speech by  Senator Harradine.  I compliment him on his speech in which he pointed out matters related to the trade union movement that certainly were of interest to me. He referred also to some anomalies in the Bill that perhaps ought to be looked at in the future. I thank him for drawing my attention to them. I noticed the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  making notes as  Senator Harradine  was speaking. I am sure he will pay regard to what the honourable senator had to say I noticed how Opposition supporters were stirred to make hysterical interjections early during the speech by  Senator Harradine  but of course later on when the truth of his speech hit home the silence from the Opposition benches was deafening. 

 Senator Harradine referred to the Bill before the Senate as setting up a more democratic system that will provide a choice for organisations and give more democracy to the rank and file members particularly of the small branches of unions. He also pointed out the undemocratic aspects of the Cameron amendments. I was very interested in what he said. I also was interested in what  Senator Cavanagh  said. He admitted that there were imperfections in his own union system, that of the Plasterers Union in South Australia. He admitted that the imperfections of the system kept him in the position of secretary for 16 years. He also, in a very confidential speech- I noted that it was directed mainly towards his colleagues on the other side of the chamber- referred to other matters. I was interested in his reference to  Mr Justice  Feathers, when he was talking about the Federal body of the Miscellaneous Workers Union. I wondered whether that gentleman might be related to  Senator McLaren.  I was interested particularly in what Senate Harradine said. 

 Senator Ryan referred in her speech to union bashing. I think it is unfortunate that, when people draw attention to the inadequacies in the trade union movement and the deficiencies of the trade union leadership, particularly in the left wing area- I think that is the only area I would be prepared to criticise- they are accused of being union bashers. I believe that the majority of people in Australia have some concern about the way the trade union movement is going. This is due largely to the fact that the irresponsible leadership- the minority leadership to which I referred earlier- has succeeded in discrediting the trade union movement in Australia; so much so that even  Mr Hawke  fears that the credibility of the trade union movement is at an all time low. 
When  Senator Ryan  referred to union bashing it reminded me of an article that I had read in the  Stock and Station Journal.  It was so significant, so descriptive and so impressive- no doubt when I read extracts from it honourable senators will recognise the style of the author- that a number of people had copies of it roneoed off, and these are being used to great advantage in South Australia. The comments really typify the concern which exists in the electorate. This article was entitled: 'I Wouldn't Like People to Say I'm a Union Basher'. I shall read parts of the article which are significant. The author writes: 
So I must learn not to be a union basher. 
I must be silent when the soldier settler farmers on Kangaroo Island are set upon by a ruthless union organisation because they employed non-union shearers. 
The union action of declaring them black would have broken them if they hadn't had the guts to stand up for themselves. 
Further on he writes: 
I must learn to be silent when I see the vehicle unions crucifying the Australian car industry, doing to it what they succeeded in doing to the British car industry, using the same methods and perhaps the same people. 
At least they speak with the same accents. 
And I mustn't be critical of the position on the waterfront. I mustn't say anything about the $15m we are paying each year for waterside workers to sit on their tails doing nothing because the stevedores can't dismiss them. 
I mustn't mention the golden handshakes of over $10,000 a man we try to give waterside workers we don't need if only we could get them to hold their hands out. 
The author also mentions the sailors who get 20 weeks holiday a year and the most luxurious living conditions while at sea, but he says that he must let them continue to be the greatest barrier to Australia's economic development. Whenever anyone draws attention to some things that have been described in that article he is accused of being a union basher. 
I was interested in what  Senator Harradine  said about the waterfront situation. This is a classic example of trade unions using political excuses to delay ships going overseas or in fact in some circumstances to prevent ships such as the  Enterprise  from coming into port. He described the attitude of what I believe to be his responsible union in not having a bar of that sort of attitude. This attitude also was expressed, very well I thought, in a  Bulletin  article on an interview of  Sir John  Egerton, who pointed out that the fundamental purpose of the trade union movement in Australia is to ensure that the workers have proper wages or fair wages for what they do and good and fair conditions, and that the unions should be there to protect the interests of the trade union members against irresponsibility on the part of some employers. That is the role of the trade union movement as I see it. It is a role that I support wholeheartedly and a role to which I hope they will be encouraged to return very rapidly. Until we as a Government can restore the confidence of the genuine trade union members in their own organisations- I think this lead has to come from government- I believe that the trade unions' future in Australia is a very black one indeed. 
I suggest that the action that the Government has taken already by making amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, particularly earlier in the year when we started off by introducing the requirement for a compulsory postal secret ballot for the election of union officials, is an attempt to encourage the trade union rank and file members to take an interest in their leadership and to deal with those who are not acting in their best interests. I believe that this Bill is a move in that direction as well. I suggest that what  Senator Harradine  said is perfectly correct. This Bill will provide a more democratic system and I believe that it will give the rank and file far more say in who should be their leaders. Talking about the problems that we face within Australia and how the Government has to come to grips with them, I point out that in December last year many trade unionists massively supported the Liberal-National Country Party Government in its return to office. I believe that many of the people who supported this Government were trade unionists who are concerned about the way the trade union movement is going. They are concerned about not only political strikes but also inter-union disputes. I think  Senator Harradine  pointed this out very clearly. The responsibility for dealing with inter-union disputes in the Federal sphere surely lies in the hands of the Australian Council of Trade Unions Disputes Committee. 
I remember that a year or so ago in South Australia there was a dispute between the Waterside Workers Federation and the Transport Workers Union as to who should unload the cargoes at the roll-on roll-off terminal of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at Port Adelaide. Well before the completion of that facility the company had gone to the unions, including the 
Waterside Workers Federation, and asked which union was the proper one to deal with this work. The company was assured that the Waterside Workers Federation was the appropriate union, as it was its role to do this work in other ports in Australia. Then began an argument between the Transport Workers Union and the Waterside Workers Federation. This persisted for several weeks. The trouble was not handled at all efficiently- in fact it was not handled at all- by the ACTU Disputes Committee, because the TWU refused to front up to its peers and to make a decision in the proper area. It chose to delay the unloading of cargo. Stockpiles of thousands of tons of steel were on the wharf. This meant that other workers in other unions who were completely innocent in the argument had to suffer loss of pay. Companies were affected. I know it cost British Tube Mills a lot because it had construction work to do at one of the oil refineries, I think at Christies Beach. These things flowed out of the selfish area into an area where it became a problem to other workers who had no responsibility in that issue. These things ought to be dealt with positively by the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
It seems to me that the current problem we have with respect to the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union people in the fuel industry is an absolute indictment of the trade union movement.  Mr Hawke  supports that view. He says: No, we should not ban, we should not prevent fuel from being delivered to the people'. He is quoted in the  Australian  newspaper today as blasting a decision by oil industry maintenance workers to continue bans which are now threatening Australia with a major fuel crisis. Those workers are suggesting that the companies ought to pay the Medibank levy and are flouting the arbitration system to create hardship throughout Australia. This seems to me to be a deliberate attempt to reduce our fuel supplies in Australia to a degree where, at the drop of a hat, those workers can paralyse the nation. In my view, these things are completely irresponsible. I think such actions ought to be declared illegal while discussions are being conducted by arbitration. 
These are matters that not only concern me as a person who respects the trade union movement and who has had something to do with the movement. My association has not been one in a technical sense as has that of  Senator Harradine,  but I have had a lot to do with union problems. I have lived in a trade union environment for a long time; I was a member of a trade union movement a long time ago. I realise that perhaps a lot of the trouble in the trade union movement is that people get despondent about going along to trade union meetings because they find that the militant cliques are in control of the trade union. Rather than go along to a strike meeting, these members opt to have a couple of beers at the local hotel, or cut their lawns or have a game of bowls. 
We want to see responsible trade unionists taking a more aggressive interest to ensure that proper leadership persists in their unions. If the leadership happens to be irresponsible, these members ought to go along and vote at their union elections and see that the union leaders are replaced with people who have their interests at heart. I think this Bill we have before us will help in the gradual process that we hope will permeate the unions to ensure that some responsibility returns to unions, that people will be encouraged to work harder and will be rewarded in a greater way for working harder, and in so doing will improve their own lot and help to restore the Australian economy to sound health once again. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the cuts in programs foreshadowed for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Is the Minister aware of the concern expressed in South Australia at the suggestion that the Adelaide Symphony Orchestra will be disbanded and that there will be cuts in current affairs programs? Is the Minister aware that these complaints are coming from all sections of the community, not the least being prominent members of the Liberal Party? Will the Minister ask his colleague to consult  Sir Henry  Bland with the object of reviewing these decisions which, in my view, are not in the interests of the cultural life of South Australia in particular and which in general would deprive the Australian audience of invaluable current affairs information? Can the Minister provide details of the production costs of the  State of the Nation  program? Is he concerned that the nation's only federal political program, which has an effective rating of 7, is one of the first to be deleted? Can the Minister ascertain from the ABC the criteria applied in making decisions on these budgetary cuts? 
Opposition Senators- Hear, hear! 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. To an extent it is supplementary to one I asked earlier. What is the Government's view regarding increasing support throughout Australia for suggestions that the number of trade unions operating in Australia should be drastically reduced in the interests of industrial relations? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the recent report that the Premier of Victoria is considering the introduction of legislation to define essential industrial areas of State interest for the purpose of preventing unnecessary industrial disruption. Is the Minister aware of the proposal? Is the Minister able to say whether the legislation will include a requirement that compulsory secret ballots must be held before a strike involving such areas is legal? Has the Federal Government adequate authority to maintain the operation of services that are essential to Australia? Can the Minister say whether the Federal Government will consider declaring areas of national importance in respect of which legislation similar to that contemplated in Victoria could be introduced? 
I have listened to the many suggestions that have emanated from the Opposition as to what should be done for education. Honourable senators opposite devoted their attention particularly to technical and further education. The fact that they had 3 years in government to do something about these matters seems to have completely escaped their attention. Of course, in the technical area we have a problem of gross unemployment which was inherited from the previous Administation. This makes it far more difficult to inject graduates from technical institutions and further education areas into the work force. Rather than help education, the Whitlam Administration, as  Senator Tehan  reminded us, abandoned the triennial system of funding which resulted in a reduction in expenditure on education. Of course, the Labor Party amassed an amazing deficit of almost $5,000m which we inherited. We had to take steps to correct these rather disastrous economic circumstances that we faced. 

 Senator Melzer mentioned the difficulty of young migrants entering apprenticeships. Young migrants- they may be 14 or 1 5 years of age- are quite often prevented from learning a trade for more than one reason. One reason that occurs to me in particular is that it takes them a year or so to become familiar enough with the language to understand it. By the time they are able to do that, they run into problems created by trade union obstruction. Perhaps this is an area at which the trade union movement ought to have a look, rather than be rigid about the age at which these people can enter the work force. Perhaps it should relax its attitude in regard to apprenticeships, and that might be of some assistance. 
I want to say something about the deficit that the Liberal-National Country Party Government faced when it came into office. Its economic management has enabled it to provide additional finance for education. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in May this year gave guidelines for the benefit of the various commissions that have been established to make recommendations to the Government with respect to this important and growing area of expenditure. In his speech on 4 November he indicated that the Universities Commission, the Commission on Advanced Education, the Technical and Further Education Commission, and the Schools Commission, as a result of an examination of needs, subject to the guidelines laid down by the Minister, had been able to recommend programs for 1977 totalling $l,537m at December 1975 prices. This represents an increase of $47m in real terms over the expenditure for 1976. For the second and third years of the triennium the commissions were asked to proceed with plans based on minimum growth rates of 2 per cent per annum in real terms for universities, colleges of advanced education and schools, and a higher rate of 5 per cent per annum for technical and further education. So we have provided additional funds for those areas about which Opposition senators have expressed concern. I believe that the people involved in these fields appreciate the efforts that we have made when faced with adverse economic circumstances. 
I commend the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts for its report on the problems of isolated children. I was happy to attend the federal meeting of the Isolated Children's Parents Association at Broken Hill at which  Senator Davidson,  the  Chairman  of that Committee, gave the occasional address and referred to aspects of the Committee's report. I compliment  Senator Davidson  and the Committee on the effort that they have put into it. I commend the recommendations contained in the report to the Government. I lend my support to the hope that the recommendations will be acted upon as soon as possible. 
We are dealing with 8 Bills, as has been mentioned several times this evening. I want to say how pleased I was to note that the provision for disadvantaged schools and schools in disadvantaged country areas has been increased, and also that the recurrent expenditure and the levels of assistance for non-government schools have received some attention. In his second reading speech on the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Bill 1976 the Minister said: 
The Government reaffirms its policy of providing basic per capita grants for all pupils in non-government schools while at the same time maintaining higher grants for schools in greater need. It is concerned to encourage parental choice. The Government has accepted the Schools Commission recommendation that the level of grants for non-government schools be linked automatically in future years to per pupil expenditure levels in government schools. 
I think that is a very necessary provision. The Minister went on to say: 
The Government has generally accepted the Commission's recommended levels of funding for nongovernment schools in 1977 but has decided to increase the size of recommended general recurrent grant for the most needy primary schools from $223 to $229 per pupil (in average 1976 price levels). These schools cater for approximately 90 per cent of enrolments in non-government primary schools. 
I notice that Schedule 4 of the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Bill mentions the level of assistance to be provided and sets out the amounts to be provided for primary school students and the amounts to be provided for secondary school students. At level 1 the amount provided for each primary school student is $88 and at level 2 the amount provided for each primary school student is $117. At level 1 the amount of $137 will be provided for each secondary school student and at level 2 $ 187 will be provided. I commend the Government for its action in that regard. 
I refer now to the States Grants (Universities) Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. I agree with  Senator Tehan  's comment that more attention should be given to the number of students graduating in quite a large number of faculties. He mentioned the law faculty. I draw attention in particular to dental graduates in South Australia. I was talking to  Senator Grimes  not long ago and he referred to the South Australian report on medical graduates. It seems that in South Australia in a few years time we will have, I think, 1 doctor for every 250 people. The Government has to watch these things very carefully. 
The solution, in my view, would be to consult more carefully the Australian Medical Association and the State governments in order to try to sort out this problem. 
Yes, that is important. I think the consumers ought to be consulted in this regard as well. Nevertheless, it is of concern to me that in South Australia we seem to be producing law graduates who are unable to find work. If we are not careful and if we do not examine this problem very critically, I am afraid that the same thing will happen in other professions. 
-I would think that some system will have to be developed to ensure that these graduates are able to find work and thus are able to serve the requirements of the community in a better way. Of course, we know how difficult it is to attract doctors to the country areas, for example. That is a matter which deserves the attention of governments, both at State and Federal levels, and also deserves the attention of the AMA. I think it is a matter which has been neglected for too long. 
In the fairly short time at my disposal I wish to refer to the problems of the dental profession in South Australia. I know that the situation in Victoria is different because that State needs more graduates. But it seems to me that this is an area of concern which the Government must examine critically. The current dental population ratios are interesting. I have a report on aspects of dental care for the community submitted by the South Australia Branch of the Australian Dental Association which under the heading 'Current Dental Population Ratios ' states: 
Dental practitioners from Government Health and Education Department, Universities and from private practice agreed on the ratio of 1:2000 for planning purposes. After taking the activities of the School Dental Service (nationally) into account a planning ratio for other dentists in the community was set at 1:2439. This would appear to be a reasonable planning ratio for the Australian Community in order to ensure economic viability of private dental practices. 
The report goes on to say: 
The planning ratio of 1:2439 is seen in this State as being suitable for the metropolitan area bearing in mind the involvement of auxiliaries such as dental assistants and hygienists but the situation changes rapidly in the country with its sparse population. Here care must be exercised to consider the needs of regions rather than overall ratios. 
It is interesting to note that the report states that the dentist population ratio in West Germany is 1: 1943. This is almost an optimal ratio. The dentist population ratio is a matter for concern particularly when the association examines the manpower requirements in the profession. The Association has figures from the Australian Bureau of Census and Statistics, indicating the population projections for South Australia. In June 1975 the figure was 1 234 100; for 1980 the figure is 1 296 530; for 1985 it is 1 366 320; and for 1990 it is 1 379 420. These figures have paid regard to the migrant population. The Association has illustrated its assessment of the future manpower requirements in this way: 
In the future the number of dentists needed for increased population will amount to a maximum of 6 a year until 1990. In the last financial year, the population increase fell from 1.3 per cent to 0.9 per- cent, reducing the number of dentists needed. 
An additional intake of approximately 10 a year will be needed to replace those who cease practice. 
Allowance has to be made for dentists transferring practices to or from South Australia. 
I would imagine that quite a few dentists will be transferring to Victoria in view of the different situation in that State. The governments of Victoria and South Australia ought to get together on this matter. It seems quite senseless that South Australia is in danger of producing too many dentists and Victoria has an insufficient number. The next suggestion in the report states: 
Allowance has to be made for dentists to reach the optimum country and metropolitan population ratios plus dentists for the School Dental Services-(6 dentists a year for 5 years). 
The last recommendation states: 
Allowance has to be made for dentists catering for public patients, possibly not more than three or four dentists a year. 
The report also points to the importance of providing school dental services, particularly for primary schools, but it expresses some concern about extending this service to the secondary student level. The Association maintains that this can be done efficiently and economically in many areas. I realise that the remote areas are a distinct problem but areas such as the Barossa Valley are mentioned in the report. You,  Mr President,  would appreciate this. That area has 3 or 4 dentists in relatively close proximity. It seems uneconomic that even school dental services should be established because this requires a duplication of equipment. It requires considerable expenditure, 90 per cent of which, it must be remembered, is provided by the Federal Government. I think economies could be considered in that respect. That would help the dental practitioners concerned. It would provide an efficient service to the school children patients in that area. In my opinion, it would save money and provide on a fee for service basis a very satisfactory solution to the problem. I draw the attention of the Minister for Education to the matter. He may care to consult his colleague the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  with whom I have discussed details. I hope that between them they might be able to come up with some rationalisation with respect to dental graduate requirements in South Australia. 
Another matter I would like to refer to briefly is the possibility of providing more research grants for universities. I notice that the Government has provided the sum of $32,267,000 to the 
University of Adelaide and the sum of $14,353,000 to the Flinders University of South Australia. I have a great respect for the Institute for Energy Studies at Flinders University. I have had a number of discussions with members of that Institute concerning the need for more money to assist them in very important energy research projects. The Institute has gathered together a staff of physical scientists who are dedicated to projects such as the development of solar and wind energy and other matters associated with future energy experimentation. I think it behoves this Government to take a progressive look at the whole question of funding in this area. The Government has been asked whether it intends to continue expenditure on nuclear developments to the extent of $14m annually. This question was posed in a letter to me from the Director of the Institute, Assistant Professor de Bruin. He asked whether the Government intends to honour its election promises in which it emphasised the need to support research into solar energy. I realise that the Government has provided money to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for this particular development. But more must be done and I re-emphasise my concern that we cannot rely on overseas countries to provide us with all the answers to these problems. I believe it is incumbent upon us to pay greater regard to that sort of funding in the future. I hope the Minister will examine this matter and try to find a little more money for that purpose in the next Budget. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Will the Minister, as a matter of urgency, and in view of the fact that the Government contemplates changes in the eligibility requirements for Commissioner for Housing loans in the Australian Capital Territory, assure all those persons who have purchased leases and who would previously have been eligible for such loans, that they will not now be bound by the present rule which requires that building commence within six months of the lease agreement coming into effect. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that the Bureau of Roads has been absorbed by the Bureau of Transport Economics within the Department of Transport? Is the Minister aware that, since July, 12 members of the staff of the Bureau of Roads have left, with consequent adverse effect on the expertise available to this statutory body? In view of the widespread concern among local government bodies about the move to abandon the Bureau of Roads, thereby losing an important, impartial and independent road needs assessment authority, can the Minister assure the Senate that the new arrangements will provide to the Government the same technical advice on Australian road requirements? Has his colleague in the House of Representatives made a statement on this subject? If not, is it the Government's intention to provide such a statement in both Houses of the Parliament for the information of all members? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry say whether the recent devaluation decision could alter the recommendations in the Industries Assistance Commission report on dairying industry marketing arrangements presented in September this year? Will the Government delay any action on this report in order to observe the effects of the devaluation on the industry and to provide time to assess the effects of the downturn in production due to changes in seasonal conditions since the recommendations were made? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that during the examination of the estimates of the Department of Transport by Senate Estimates Committee C on 7 October the Committee was informed that a committee would be set up to look at the role and the functions of the body which would emerge from the amalgamation of the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics, and also to suggest the best type of organisation to perform the functions? I ask the Minister whether the decision announced by the Minister for Transport in his news release dated 17 November to absorb the Bureau of Roads into the Bureau of Transport Economics in the Department of Transport is in line with the recommendations of the committee which reported on this matter. Will the committee's report be made available to honourable senators? Can the Minister say whether a Bill will be introduced to repeal the Bureau of Roads Act? If so, when is this likely to be presented to the Senate? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. I refer to a statement attributed to the Minister of Mines and Energy in South Australia,  Mr Hudson,  who indicated that the South Australian Government would approach the Commonwealth Government to discover whether it would be possible to establish in South Australia a solar energy laboratory of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. Can the Minister inform me whether such an approach has been made? What would be the Government's attitude to such a request? 
We are discussing a Bill to appropriate moneys for the purpose of urban public transport. I listened with interest to  Senator Keeffe  and I must say that I agree with him in relation to the expense, in terms of our energy reserves, that the private motor car is costing Australia. It is quite clear that the motor car has become a symbol of our affluent society, and today we see not just one motor car in private garages in Australia but quite often two or three. One of the problems facing the Government is that in order to conserve energy and in order to conserve petroleum it has to devise ways to get people out of their motor cars, but that is not easy. However, I agree that we ought to take more interest in urban public transport. I have read some extracts from a report by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development on innovations in urban transportation. The report states that in OECD countries:  the forces of economic growth and industrialisation exert powerful influences on urban environments. As personal income rises, consumer demands and preferences change . . . 
Among the preferences of consumers two commodities stand out: housing and the automobile. 
But no matter how the preferences in housing vary from country to country, the yearning for the automobile is universal. In every society, as affluence increases, the automobile becomes a visible sign of that affluence. The automobile has come to stand for mobility, convenience, privacy and independence, as well as a symbol of economic achievement. 
The report also demonstrated how the total number of motor cars had doubled between 1958 and 1967 in most OECD countries, and no doubt since that time it has almost doubled again. As the level of car ownership increases it generates a major demand for improved throughway roads. Freeways have been built, opening access to outlying areas and facilitating further movement to the suburbs as the city populations have increased. These new areas were inadequately served by public transport and demand for mobility has been met by the private car. As the urban sprawl and the use of cars has increased, urban public transport usage has declined. In addition, rising wage rates, especially in the transportation industry, have raised operating costs without necessarily increasing productivity. As a result, the road and public transport spiral has arisen. As roadways are built the trend towards car usage increases and the use of public transport declines even more rapidly. I think that is quite evident. 
This Bill recognises the need to provide further money because of the increased costs which have occurred since the inception of the program in 1973-74 and which will continue up to June 1977. Of course, that is typical of every sector of our community, where cost pressures and wage increases have caused tremendous problems associated with the financing of various projects. I have mentioned the road-public transport spiral. In Australia's case this spiral has been accentuated by the inability of the urban public transport systems to update their rolling stock. They are thus dependent on outdated equipment which cannot keep pace with the general development of labour productivity. 
A paper was written by Nicholas Clark entitled 'The Costs of Operating Urban Public Transport Services in Australian Cities 1970-71 '. It was delivered at the University of Melbourne and published in the Department of Civil Engineering Bulletin No. 1 1. It shows that in that year urban public transport services in Australia cost approximately $290m to operate, while the revenue from passengers amounted to $175m. Clark estimated at that time that the operating costs would rise to between $350m and $375m by 1973-74 due to increases in labour changes. That is exactly what we are faced with tonight. This appropriation of $20m is largely to meet in part the increased costs of labour and material. It does not quite cover the increased costs. 
I support the view that we have to do something to encourage people to get out of their motor cars. How are we going to do it? Obviously we have to provide better, more frequent and more comfortable modes of public transport. This is an extremely costly thing to do. It would be very difficult indeed now to change the life styles of people and to get them out of their selfish mode of transport. I know that we have paid attention to developments overseas. In other countries there have been developments in the area of rapid personalised transit systems. There are one or two places in the United States of America that have developed this form of transport and it is proving to be quite satisfactory. The Messerschmidt company in Germany has experimented with and, I believe, plans to install that type of transit system in that country. But it would be difficult to do so in Australia. We have a different set-up altogether. Our population is not quite so dense. Therefore these propositions may not be appropriate in Australia at the present time, although I think that fairly soon we will be able to consider a scheme of that type for some areas in Sydney and perhaps even Melbourne. 
Motor cars bring with them great problems.  Senator Keeffe  mentioned some of them. We have to put up with pollution, with the problems associated with the generation of sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons from unburned fuel. The Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment presented a report to the Senate earlier this year in which it suggested that a lot more attention needed to be given to the effects of those pollutants on the upper atmosphere and the ozone layer. I believe that this is an area in which Australia ought to take a more aggressive stance in international monitoring so that we can help to overcome these problems. Road accidents are a permanent hazard as a result of our motor vehicle traffic. Road costs and energy considerations have been mentioned.  Senator Keeffe  mentioned that, I think, approximately threetenths of Australia's total energy budget goes to powering the various forms of transport and that petroleum provides for at least 95 per cent of that fraction. Am I right in saying that,  Senator Keeffe? 
-That is a lot. It is certainly a matter that ought to be of concern to us. I share the view expressed by  Senator Keeffe  that we should deal a little more with this area of public transport in the future. I support the Bill and commend it to the Senate as an indication of this Government's good faith and intent to do more in this field. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. It refers to the AMDEL organisation in South Australia. The Minister might be aware that this organisation was established by a triumvirate of the Commonwealth Government, the State Government and private industry, which fund the organisation and allocate work to it to enable it to provide a bridge between research and development and the application of such technology to industry. I understand that it is a unique organisation. I also understand that the Government has had consultations with  Sir Ian  McLennan, who is the  Chairman  of AMDEL, with respect to the Government's future attitude towards it. I ask the Minister whether the Government has made a decision concerning the funding of this organisation and the allocation of work to it. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, probably in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to recent statements concerning the dumping of nuclear waste material at Maralinga in South Australia in 1960 and 1961. Is the Minister aware that a spokesman for the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Commission has said that this is highly unlikely? Is he also aware of a statement made by the South Australian Minister of Mines and Energy that the dumping of such waste at Maralinga is a Commonwealth matter? In view of further claims that these dumps present a health hazard, will the Minister ask his colleague in the other place, either the Minister for Defence or the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, to make a public statement on the matter in order to dispel the concern that has been expressed? 
-Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of the interest by the business sector in the Treasury definition of stock for stock value adjustment for tax purposes? Is it a fact that a decision on this matter still has not been made? As this is of some concern and is impeding cash flow estimates and the estimates of taxation requirements of companies, will he request that the Treasurer treat this as a matter of urgency? 
-This Bill provides $35.8m additional funds to the States for road construction and brings the total available to the States for this purpose for 1976-77 to $433.5m. I certainly share the concern that has been expressed that we must allocate additional funds for road purposes for the national highways and those other roads that are of great significance to us. The automobile associations have put forward their views- they have to do so- to press the interests of their members. As  Senator Douglas  McClelland suggested, we should get round the table and talk about these things. It would have been great if the previous Government had taken that advice or used that sort of system when allocating funds for various purposes during its 3 years in office. Because that Government did not do so, the present Administration has to take stock of the economy and put into perspective the areas of significance on which to spend the taxpayers' money. We have chosen to examine the course of action pursued by the previous Government, which in a frivolous fashion made money available to areas that should not have been given the highest priority. That is why we are in a position where perhaps we cannot do as much as we would like to do at present. But I believe that the Bill indicates the good faith of the Government, particularly in that it pays regard to the plight of local government and the way in which rural roads were allowed to slip back during the 3 years of the Labor Administration. 
It will be noted that in this Bill an attempt has been made to restore this imbalance and provide more finance to local government authorities. In his second reading speech, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said: 
In advising the States of the proposed additional funds and seeking their views on the proposed allocation to categories, the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  has pointed to the decline in funds available to local government and stressed the urgent road requirements in rural areas. 
The Minister goes on to say: 
Following consultations with the States the proposed allocations set out in the Bill were adopted. These allocations go a considerable way towards improving the difficulties which rural local government and the rural roads system were facing. This has been achieved without any disruption of the overall State road programs. 
So, consultation has been carried out with the States. As a result of that consultation the Senate is now considering this Bill. When the supply of money becomes rather short I suppose that rural areas are the first to suffer. As I indicated, this Bill goes some way towards correcting the difficulties that local government in rural areas has been experiencing. 
I note that on Friday last, 4 December, a meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council was held in Melbourne. After that meeting, my attention was drawn to a statement in the Melbourne  Age  under the heading, 'State anger as road plan denied '. The article reads in part: 
The Federal Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  yesterday rejected a plea from the States for the introduction of fiveyear forward planning for Australia 's road system. 
He told State Transport Ministers, meeting in Melbourne, that the Government did not have the necessary information on which to base financial commitments to roads until 1981-82. 
That is in part correct. But this was certainly not a categorical rejection by the Minister for Transport of the plea from the States. He merely pointed out that there was insufficient information available to embark on a 5-year program at this stage. I gather that the Bureau of Roads report made firm recommendations for a further 3 years. It was on that basis that the Minister for Transport made his statement. For these purposes, last year can be considered only as an indicative year. What happened last year was by no means basic enough on which to plan for 5 years ahead. I understand that it was on that basis that the Minister made his statement. 
I notice that, on his return from the ATAC meeting in Melbourne,  Mr Virgo,  the South Australian Minister responsible for roads suggested in a statement that the Commonwealth Minister for Transport was delaying decisions with respect to road programs or grants for road programs and accused him of exerting too much central control from Canberra over the States with respect to road programs. Unfortunately,  Mr Virgo  did not add that some of that delay- all of the delay as far as I am aware- arises from the fact that the State roads programs for the future should be covered by a State environmental report and that, at that meeting in Melbourne, the required environmental report statements did not accompany the roads programs. So, the Federal Minister cannot be blamed for delaying a decision in this matter. Quite properly, I think, he must require State environmental departments to submit an appropriate accompanying report to give him a clear indication that the roads programs have no environmental problem associated with them. 
I notice that, in this Bill, an additional amount has been provided for South Australia. The amounts concerned appear under various headings. The amounts allocated are $1.2m for rural arterial roads; Sim for rural local roads; and Sim for urban arterial roads. Similar allocations have been made to the other States. It seems to me that the rural areas will profit considerably by this Bill and it will restore to local government the capacity to get on with some of the rural road programs that have been languishing over the last two or three years. 
I referred earlier to the report of the Bureau of Roads. The amalgamation of the Bureau of Roads into the Bureau of Transport Economics within the Department of Transport has been a matter of some concern to me. I did demonstrate my concern that perhaps some expertise could be lost as a result of the amalgamation. I asked questions in the Senate over the last month or so on this matter. I asked the Minister for Education whether he was aware that 12 people had already left the Bureau of Roads and I asked whether in his mind this was a significant loss in respect of the expertise that could have been available to the department. I also asked last week whether the Government is going to repeal the Bureau of Roads Act which I understand would be necessary in the event of amalgamation taking place. I asked the Minister whether he could give me the assurance that following amalgamation the advice available to the Government in respect of forward planning for roads would be as competent as it was previously. I would like the Minister to indicate in his summing up whether what I believe to be expert advice that has always flowed from the Bureau of Roads will still be available not only to the Federal Government, but also to the State governments and in particular local government bodies which have expressed some concern about the decision that the Government made to abolish the Bureau of Roads. It is of real concern in local government and I believe the Minister's assurance would go a long way in allaying its fears in this respect. I am also anxious to know the position in respect of the people who are still employed in the Bureau of Roads. I seek an assurance that their areas of expertise will be recognised and that they will be given appropriate positions within the Department of Transport. 
-I am sorry that  Senator Mulvihill  has chosen to refer to  Sir Philip  Baxter and others in the way he has. I know that he is genuinely interested in conservation matters. He referred earlier to  Senator Maunsell  who properly drew attention to extremists on the conservation side who were not acting in the best interests of this country with the extreme attitude they were adopting. I regret that  Senator Mulvihill  referred to people in the nuclear industry in Australia as wicked men who are more interested in making money. He said that the Australian Atomic Energy Commission cannot be trusted. Those words are unnecessary in a debate in which we are trying to understand the points of view of both sides of the argument. 
Nuclear power development in the world has a long history. It goes back to 1954. The debate on this matter has reached its climax in recent times because the world has come to appreciate the exhaustibility of conventional methods of power generation. This has been evident in England. I think the first nuclear power generation plant there was established in 1956. The first plant in the United States was established in 1954. From that time onwards there has been an increasing interest in nuclear energy for the reasons I have just mentioned. This has resulted in an emotive debate tending to polarise the extremists on both sides. It is important, therefore, that people in the Parliament come to understand the points of view that have been expressed by genuine conservationists and people who are genuinely interested in developing an industry in Australia for the benefit and employment of many people. Tonight we have been discussing the subject in a rather peculiar fashion. When one mentions the mining of uranium most people tend to start talking immediately about nuclear power generation. The Fox report in essence really concerns itself with whether we ought to be mining and processing uranium in Australia. This is a different kettle offish from the matter of nuclear power generation. We ought to bring ourselves back to the essence of the debate in that particular regard. 
We have to give specific consideration to Australia's responsibility in the provision of energy to those countries which are less fortunate than ourselves and have little or no conventional fuels. In considering this proposition we must remember that Australia has abundant supplies of coal, oil, except heavy crudes, and gas. The gas supplies in this country will suffice our needs for many years to come. The advent of technology concerned with the conversion of coal to liquid fuel and gas is certainly contemplated by the Government. In fact, only recently, West German technologists were in Australia to discuss a proposal to embark on a joint West GermanAustralian venture in that particular field. I believe that within 10 years Australia's petroleum and gas will come from that source. To a certain extent this will overcome our shortages of heavy crudes. In Australia we have had experience in the mining and processing of uranium This dates back to 1944 when the United Kingdom Government and the United States Government suggested that we ought to search for uranium in this country. 
This important mineral was discovered in Radium Hill and Mount Painter in South Australia, Rum Jungle, United Uranium and South Alligator in the Northern Territory, and Mary Kathleen in Queensland. The mining process started in Australia in 1954. Between 1954 and 1971 9,200 tonnes of yellow cake, uranium oxide, was derived from plants at 5 locations. This is a matter of history as far as Australia is concerned. In those days people were not too concerned about radio activity or pollution, or they did not seem to be. In recent times, however, this has become a matter of public debate and world concern. I have had experience in this field and have some knowledge of the associated hazards in the operation and it is clear that with proper management the hazards that may appear to be present are negligible. I recall that  Sir Mark  Oliphant, who cannot be classed as inexpert in this field, commented before he left South Australia that there was nothing to fear from the mining and processing of uranium. It was not until the conversion of uranium oxide to energy that problems arose with respect to pollution. 
The first recommendation of the first report of the Fox Environmental Inquiry states: 
The hazards of mining and milling uranium, if those activities are properly regulated and controlled, are not such as to justify a decision not to develop Australian uranium mines. 
The second recommendation states: 
The hazards involved in the ordinary operations of nuclear power reactors, if those operations are properly regulated and controlled, are not such as to justify a decision not to mine and sell Australian uranium. 
That is the matter with which we are dealing at present. I expect that anybody in this House who wants to argue for or against the mining and development of uranium could find something in the report to prop up his argument. My suggestion to the Government is that we ought to be considering in this context the establishment of a marketing authority to ensure that proper provisions are carried out with respect to the supply of uranium to non-proliferation treaty countries and to countries which are bound to observe the international environmental standards as laid down. It would seem to me that that should be an appropriate statutory authority, perhaps representative of government departments and private industry, which could work in consultation or collaboration with a permanent uranium advisory council, as recommended in the Fox report. It is important that the Government has the capacity to control this commodity. 
The need to conserve energy has been mentioned during the debate. This is also referred to in the Fox report. I believe that it is of great consequence to Australia that we should be critical of ourselves and wonder whether we should leave lights on around the place. I recall that during my childhood-and no doubt  Senator Sim  had the same experience- my father told me that it was important to turn off the taps and not waste water, and not to use radiators unnecessarily. When I was a child the problem was an economic one because my father could not afford to pay excessive power bills, and of course water was of great consequence in South Australia. I believe it is important that people in Australia recognise that they should not waste power but conserve it whenever they can. 
In that context, I believe that all governments in Australia should encourage the use of low thermal solar heating and cooling for domestic purposes. That could also be carried through into the industrial area. If that happened, I believe that up to 20 per cent of our present energy requirements could be saved, and probably more than 20 per cent if it were carried through into industry. 
The estimated cost is very low. 
-I do not think that is right. If one went into the question, I think the cost would be relatively low. I understand that an industrial firm in Queanbeyan is installing solar panels and that that is a relatively inexpensive process, particularly when the long term economic consequences are considered. I want to revert now to the dangers of radiation and to the effects that might flow from the mining and processing of uranium. The emotion which this subject generates arises largely as a result of ignorance in the minds of people. 
-That may be so, and perhaps that is what  Senator Maunsell  was referring to when he talked about the extremists in the conservation lobby. But I am a conservationist, and I hope that everyone in this House is a conservationist when it comes to the health of the people of Australia. I think we ought to deal with this matter in a sensible way. At Port Pirie the other day there was an over-reaction when a child trod in a dam and burnt his shoe. The burning was attributed to radioactivity, but the truth was that although the child was playing in the vicinity of an old uranium dump, which had very little radioactivity in evidence and was simply eliminated by covering it up with a little earth, it proved to be not a uranium burn but a burn from the sulphuric acid which had leached into the dam from the nearby Port Pirie acid plant. So the emotional matters can be over-emphasised. 
For those honourable senators who heard the statements this morning on  AM,  it was interesting to note that the Mary Kathleen miners, who are trade unionists, demonstrated their view that the mining and processing of uranium ought to proceed. They were quite convinced that the radiation limits were well below those laid down by the ICRP- the International Commission on Radiological Protection- which was established in 1928. I say that for the benefit of  Senator Townley,  who is interested in these matters. The radioactivity to which these people are subjected in the mining of uranium at Mary Kathleen is well below the safe limits laid down. The people involved are examined periodically by safety officers to ensure that the levels are not exceeded. The ICRP recommends that the dose for the whole body of a radiation worker should not exceed 5 rems per annum averaged over his whole working life, and there are other figures for different organs of the body. 
A world survey conducted by the International Labour Office-Hellen, 1972- indicated that out of more than 298 000 radiation workers, approximately 44 per cent worked in the medical field and the great majority of all workers received radiation doses of less than .5 rems per annum. Those dose levels can be compared with the natural background radiation level of about .1 rems per annum in many parts of the world. A few areas, such as parts of India and Brazil, have background radiation levels more than 10 times higher. Those facts escape our notice when we deal with natural radiation because there is no emotive sense of urgency about them. But when we start to mine uranium something quite different is sparked. 
It amazes me that more interest has not been taken in this important subject. But let us consider the less emotionally alarming biological effects of radiation from natural sources. What happens there? Everyone in the Senate would know that there are 2 types of radiation to which we are subjected in our natural surroundings. The first is from cosmic rays, and my learned colleague  Senator Townley  would suggest that he knows about mineral radiation. The intensity of cosmic rays is increased by altitude and it approximately doubles for every 1500 metres of altitude. The sea level intensity is given at 30 millirads a year, but when one get up to 30 000 feet the dose rate is about .3 millirads an hour, or 2 600 millirads a year. Nobody seems to worry about that. When  Senator Sim  flies from Perth to Canberra, and assuming that he does that 36 times a year and that the average flight time is 5'/4 hours a trip, he is exposing his body to 60 millirads a year over and above the 100 millirads a year received on the ground. To my mind, that shoots to pieces the absolute claptrap which has been put. The pilots, air hostesses and other air crew who fly across Australia at these altitudes are probably too small a group to be assessed accurately, but no particular attention has been drawn to any cancer or genetic defects in these people. 
Two studies have been conducted relating to natural radiation. These were carried out on a small island called Nui, which is in the vicinity of New Zealand -I am giving  Senator Hall  a geography lesson tonight- and in India along the Kerala coast. This is a more appropriate area to be considered, because the Indian study is more significant for the reason that the monazite there, containing sands of uranium and thorium, exposes large populations to background radiation of over 20 times the normal 100 millirad a year level as measured at Bombay. Effects on fertility, the sex ratio among offsprings, infant mortality rate, pregnancy terminations and many other things have been shown to be of no consequence. Judged on a statistical basis, it was shown that the incidence of these factors was not dependent upon background radiation, This is a natural example of people being exposed to radiation. As far as I am concerned, the mining and processing of uranium are of far less consequence than the natural radiation to which we are exposed from day to day, even in Canberra. 

 Senator KEEFFE (Queensland) 10.0)- I suppose that the most interesting part of that speech was the interjection of  Senator Missen  who said: I do not see too many Labor people around'. I draw his attention to the fact that the Government has placed no real importance on this debate; it has brought into it only the lightweights and not one Minister. Either Ministers are not interested in what is going on or they know nothing about it. Let me run through the list of Government speakers. There was  Senator Young; Senator Maunsell,  a sheep farmer who would know all about the problems of uranium;  Senator Jessop,  an optometrist who would be an expert;  Senator Collard  and  Senator Thomasboth  newcomers to the chamber; and  Senator Scott. Senator Missen  would have been more of a heavyweight than those who have spoken tonight. 
He is a lawyer. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the industrial stoppages which have threatened petrol supplies in 5 States during the Christmas holiday period. Has the Minister noted the Press comment that if stoppages persist supplies could be reduced to 20 per cent of normal supplies? Which unions were involved in the maintenance bans? Can the Minister say whether votes were taken of rank and file unionists to endorse this action? What is the total membership of each union involved? How many unionists attended meetings called to discuss imposing maintenance bans? 
I think that  Senator Cavanagh  must also pay some regard to the benefits which flow to the Aboriginal people from the mining operations. 
I beg your pardon. 
-The Aboriginal people - 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! I do not want an argument across the chamber. I ask  Senator Jessop  to address the Chair. 
I have been to the areas which have been mentioned, and to Groote Eylandt in particular, and I have noticed many Aboriginal people driving bulldozers and equipment such as that in the area. They are attracting quite substantial salaries and are profiting from the operations of the mining company. I do not think we should underestimate the value of that to the Aboriginal people. There is also the question of the royalties paid into the Aboriginal trust funds. These are of tremendous economic advantage and benefit to the Aboriginal people. I think that point should be made when we are dealing with this question. 
I gather from that answer that, if a tribal land extends into a State area, the border of the Northern Territory is where the influence of the land council ceases? I think it is an important point. 
-Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate say whether the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives has called for a royal commission into the dumping of radioactive waste material at Maralinga in South Australia? If so, what is the Government's reaction to this suggestion. Recalling the question I asked the Minister on Monday, I now ask whether the Government has considered my request for a public statement on this matter. If so, when is it likely to be made? If not, will the Minister give this his urgent consideration? 
I cannot see much purpose in this amendment because a report is presented to this Parliament detailing the various expenditure referred to by  Senator Keeffe.  It seems to me to be unnecessary duplication with respect to this clause. The Parliament has an opportunity to examine the appropriations at the proper time. That, as well as the report of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, gives details of the expenditure to which we are referring. 
-Of course it does. In essence this clause is almost the same as was provided in a Bill introduced under the Labor Government. I use this opportunity to point out a problem that is being experienced by the Aboriginal Community Centre in Adelaide. Clause 6 states that financial assistance to the States is subject to the following conditions: 
That each amount paid to the State under this Act will be applied by the State, in a manner and within a time approved by the Minister, for the purposes of expenditure for the benefit of Aboriginals living in the State; 
I want to highlight this matter. It concerns the Aboriginal Community Centre in Wakefield Street in Adelaide, which had been provided with and had set aside $25,000 for building alterations. Unfortunately it was put in a very financially embarrassing position because after a fire in the Salvation Army congress hall in Adelaide the State Government altered its legislation with respect to fire protection and required the Centre to expend between a further $100,000 and $1 10,000 to provide for more appropriate staircases and other features associated with fire protection which were not evident in the building. 
In addition to that the Centre was required to re-build the top floor at a cost of $60,000. 1 had a talk with the  chairman  of the Community Centre,  Mr Leonard  Kent, the architect adviser and the head of the Department in Adelaide. I was made aware of the financial difficulties the Centre was experiencing. As a result I requested the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  to give consideration to providing adequate funds to this Committee to enable the necessary alterations to be effected. The reply I received from the Minister indicated that he was sympathetic but that the building itself was not being utilised by the number of people that should be using the facility and for that reason there were problems associated with granting that amount of money at that time. However, he informed me that, under the chairmanship of  Mr Kent,  communications between the Committee and the Department had improved and there were signs that more Aboriginal people were going to use the Centre. The building also contains offices occupied by the Legal Aid Office and Australian Housing Corporation. The building is important to the Aboriginal people in Adelaide. I understand that the Minister is having talks with the appropriate State Minister and the other State departments including the Fire Brigade Board with a view to providing some assistance to this Community Centre over a period. I highlight this matter for the information of the Minister and hope that due regard will be paid to the urgency of providing funds for this purpose for the benefit of these people. 
Let me take a little further the points on housing raised by  Senator Melzer.  I agree that it is highly desirable when housing Aborigines in urban areas to avoid the collective situation. I think it is a fair comment and a constructive thought that the Victorian Government Housing Commission ought to recognise. As  Senator Baume  has correctly pointed out, South Australia should be praised for the work it has done in this area. I speak from personal experience. When I was a member of the Port Augusta City Council, we tried to achieve the objectives expressed by  Senator Melzer.  But it is extremely difficult to do so in all areas, and that highlights the problem with which we are faced when we try to overcome the difficulties among Aboriginal people and to cater for their needs. Their needs are quite different in various areas. I can recall when I visited Ernabella a number of years ago seeing several homes that had been constructed by the Commonwealth Government at that time. The Liberal-National Country parties were in government at that stage. The houses were unoccupied. The reason they were unoccupied was that an elder of the tribe had died in one of the houses; the evil spirits were still there. Until an appropriate elder of the tribe said that the evil spirits had gone, those houses would remain unoccupied. They remained unoccupied for some 1 8 months. 
I think  Senator Ryan  mentioned the poor conditions under which Aborigines live. We must recall that many Aboriginal people in Australia prefer not to live in houses, anyway. I can recall another case of a full-blooded Aboriginal patient who was in the hospital at Ernabella. She had rolled into a fire and burnt herself quite seriously. She was put into the hospital. She remained there for 2 nights. On the morning following the second night the matron was doing her rounds and discovered that that lady was not in her hospital bed. She was found back in her natural environment, preferring to live in her whirlie or however one would describe it. So, that illustrates the difficulties with which we are faced. At Ernabella half a dozen homes, costing probably several hundred thousand dollars, were idle. That is the reason why I believe the present Government was determined to reassess the needs of Aborigines. Perhaps there are areas in which money is being wasted in some respects. We want to divert that money that appears to be wasted and reassess the priorities so that the areas of need can be catered for. I thought I should mention that point. I commend  Senator Melzer  for raising it. 
I suggest that the other States of Australia could look at South Australia as an example. They have managed to provide old Aboriginal people at Davenport in particular, with an ideal type of home with the fire right in the centre of the room. This enables the Aboriginal people to lie around it if they wish, as is their tribal custom. I think many States of Australia could follow the example that has been laid down not only by the present Government- and I pay a tribute to it- but by former governments of my colour of politics. I support what  Senator Melzer  said. 
It is typical of  Senator Keeffe  frequently to misrepresent the statements that are made on this side of the chamber. I can understand his attitude. He gets a little bit overwrought when we are discussing a subject which has been of continuing interest to him. But what I was trying to point out to  Senator Keeffe-  and if he knows anything about Aboriginal people he ought to know this- is that housing problems in different areas take on quite different implications for the people concerned. I was illustrating that those 6 homes that were lying idle would probably represent a cost of about $ 1 m to the taxpayers of Australia. 
Well, it might have been more. I do not think that Sim is an unrealistic figure. But the point is that that money, if it is not being used for the benefit of those people, could well be diverted for use in the area that  Senator Melzer  was talking about. I was just drawing attention to the proper consideration of the priorities of this Government and its examination of where money was needed. It has a little bit more businesslike approach to the matter than the previous Government had. It is not a question of withdrawing or withholding money from people in need. It is a matter of reallocationa pause and the allocation of more money where indicated to people in the greatest need. 
I remind  Senator Keeffe  that relationships between the company on Groote Eylandt and the Aboriginal people are at a pretty high level. One of the first questions I asked the mining people on Groote Eylandt concerned sacred sites and the extent of the company's encroachment or near encroachment on those sacred sites. I asked how the company avoided that and I was told that it was done in consultation with the elders of the council. The company takes an elder over the area it proposes to develop to ensure with absolute certainty that it is not encroaching on sacred ground. That was the experience I had when I went there on more than one occasion, and I believe the point ought to be brought out. 
I have a query of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  with respect to clause 21. I realise that clause 2 1 defines the area over which Aboriginal land councils have a responsibility. My query concerns the position of tribal areas that overlap State borders. Does the jurisdiction of this Bill stop at a State border if in fact the tribal land overlaps the border of say, Queensland, Western Australia or South Australia? Is there any requirement for State legislation to deal with that position? I should like the Minister to make that clear in my mind. 
I present the interim report of the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment covering its inquiry into the impact on the Australian environment of the current woodchip industry program. I seek leave to move 'That the Senate take note of the report'. 
-I ask the Minister for Veterans' Affairs: Is it a fact that his Department is utilising the professional services of optometrists in certain areas to the economic advantage of his Department and the convenience of patients living in areas remote from departmental hospitals? Has the Minister received representations from the Australian Optometrical Association concerning the implementation of optometrical services throughout his Department? Is the Minister in a position to inform the Senate whether this is so? Has he made a decision on the matter and when does he expect to be able to make an announcement? 
-This Bill is the first of two stages of a legislative program to implement fully the Government's decision on the revised administrative structure, including the transfer to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal of the present ministerial powers relating to various matters associated with the renewal, suspension and revocation of licences and other matters concerned with changes in ownership and control. The new Broadcasting and Television Act will also include provisions for public inquiries on the renewal of licences. But we are dealing with the first part of the legislation, and this Bill has already received quite a lot of publicity in the Press and the various media. In my opinion, there has already been a large amount of public debate on the issues we are considering. As a result of that debate and as a result of responsible representations, the Government has seen fit to make amendments to the original Bill which satisfy me almost completely, although I imagine that some aspects of the Bill will be altered during the second stage of the Government's legislative program. Before dealing with one or two aspects of the Bill itself, I should like to say that in my opinion the Australian Broadcasting Commission performs a unique service to Australia. The ABC brings to a national audience programs that are wide-ranging in character and certainly in my experience commands the respect and interest of viewers and listeners throughout Australia. I think this is particularly significant in the country areas because there are many areas of Australia even today that can receive only the ABC stations with acceptable clarity. Therefore I believe that for that reason the Commission performs a unique service. The programs are diverse and in most cases have reached a high level of proficiency. I refer to areas such as symphony orchestras, cultural areas, drama and ballet. 
I think that we can be proud of the advances that have been made in those areas. That is why I was particularly concerned when I read of the possibility- I know it was only a possibility- of the Commission reviewing the question whether symphony orchestras ought to persist in Adelaide and other parts of Australia. I demonstrated my interest in that matter. I was also concerned to read of possible cuts to programs that are of particular interest to viewers. I refer to current affairs programs in particular. I realise that economic restraints within the ABC are just as desirable as in any government department. It is equally important to realise that the manner in which economies are effected is the responsibility of the ABC and is entirely outside political interference. I believe that members of Parliament have a responsibility when program changes are suggested and cuts are suggested to programs that are of particular interest to people whom we represent. I think it is within our sphere of duty and responsibility to communicate the feelings that are reflected by our electorates in relation to those matters. 
For that reason I wrote to  Sir Henry  Bland to demonstrate my concern. This followed a question relating to the costs of various programs which I asked in the Senate of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  I wrote to  Sir Henry  asking him to reassess the reported cuts to current affairs programs and in the news department in particular. I have not received a reply to that letter as yet but I understand that the costs of the program  State of the Nation,  which attracts a large national audience, is $40,000. 1 understand that this program is broadcast ibr half an hour or so and gives a fairly good opportunity for a balanced argument to be presented. 
-Yes, that is right. I could not help comparing the costs of some programs. I asked for the costs and I did a little homework on them. I hope the figures will be confirmed by the Minister in due course. The cost of the  Alvin Purple  series is in the vicinity of $500,000. 1 felt the cost of the 2 programs was a remarkable comparison. I question whether the value for money is there in some of these programs. The Age reported that  Sir Henry  maintains that the budget cuts will be good for the ABC. In an interview with the Commission staff journal  Radio Active  he said that he thought that the ABC and lots of other organisations have probably had it too good, and that reductions in funds are very good discipline. I believe there is a lot of sense in what was implied in that statement. But I cannot agree with the way it has been suggested that these cuts should be made. I should like to give an example. 
-I am not sure that I should reply to an honourable senator who is sitting out of his place. I shall come to FM later. I should like to illustrate the point I mentioned. A notice appeared in the ABC staff journal of 2 December stating that a working party had been set up by the ABC radio-television science technological department for the purpose of investigating the operation of portable stereo tape recorders in the field. I understand that submissions were invited from interested people within the ABC. This working party of 3 people was established in Sydney. Last week it arrived in Adelaide to deal with this investigation. The people in Adelaide had only just received the journal and of course not many of them were aware of the fact that this working party had been set up. The result was that only 2 people were able to be examined by the tribunal of three, which remained in Adelaide for 3 days and incurred expenses sufficient to enable a specialised television program of about half an hour to be made. I understand that this tribunal will go to the various States to examine that minor activity within the ABC. In my opinion that is an area in which some expenses could be cut. Why should 3 people go to Adelaide? Why could not the tribunal call for written submissions, or if it had to examine people personally, in various States, why could not only one person travel to those States. 
-That is small beer, but it is only a small section of the ABC. I am just pointing to where economies could be effected. In a newspaper today is a report on  Sir Henry  Bland 's personal view and comments on the ABC. It states: 
I couldn't care less if there were no current affairs programs'. 
He said  Stale of the Nation  'is a bit of a disaster' and  This Day Tonight  'has been scraping the bottom of the barrel '. 

 Alvin Purple 'ought to be burned' and 'The Nips' have very good orchestras. 
I do not know what we can determine from that but I suggest that as the  Chairman  of the Commission  Sir Henry  Bland perhaps would be advised to be a little more discreet about voicing his personal views in public because that can certainly put him in a difficult position. I personally agree that perhaps  This Day Tonight  has areas that could be improved. It is a program that I believe genuinely tries to provide some sort of a balance. There are some occasions when I get a bit cross. I see items that appear to me to be slanted in favour of the Opposition's argument. But then again, there could be other occasions where the reverse would apply. From my point of view as an avid television viewer- not quite in the category of  Senator Melzer-  I am interested in current affairs debates and programs. I believe that more care ought to be taken to present a balanced view. I think this is the responsibility of those types of programs and I hope that that type of program will be able to persist. 
I said earlier that some programs have reached a high standard. But that does not mean to say that I agree that all programs are beyond reproach. I have received representations concerning the program  Late Line.  I had occasion to write to the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission,  Mr Duckmanton  - 
-That is right. My letter was directed to him and I called his attention to some aspects of this program that offended listeners and I was quite justifiable in doing so. Anyone who reads the transcripts of some of these programs will realise that much is left to be desired. It would not really break my heart if the axe fell on some programs of that nature.  Senator Melzer  referred to programs that are being shown on television in hours when children can view them. Some of them are certainly not what I would suggest is appropriate for children. In fact,  Senator Hall  told me that he was watching a program on television in Adelaide recently- I think it was last Sunday afternoon or the Sunday before- and he saw a seduction scene. That is pretty grim for young children to view. I believe that those things ought to be investigated. I share  Senator Melzer  's concern in that respect. I support also  Senator Missen  's statement earlier that some of the programs could be a little more aggressive and a little more on the British Broadcasting Commission side, where 2 points of view are put in a more aggressive and objective fashion.  Senator Young,  I think it was, mentioned the fact that the appropriation for the ABC had not been reduced as much as the appropriations for other departments- that it had been pruned by only about 6 per cent. This year the Commission has been voted $128m- $119m for operating expenses and $9m for capital costs. I understand that the Minister and the Government are giving consideration to making further moneys available to it. 
I turn to one or two provisions of the Bill. I congratulate the Government on its decision to allow the current commissioners to complete their term of office but I am still a little worried about one or two aspects. I would like the Minister to have a look at the clause dealing with the public broadcasting service. Proposed section iiia reads: 
Subject to this Act, the Minister may, on payment of the prescribed fee, grant a person a licence to operate a broadcasting station or television station for one or more of the following purposes . . . 
Proposed sub-section (3) reads: 
A public broadcasting licence or public television licence may be granted on such conditions, and in accordance with such form, as the Minister determines. 
I understand that during the second stage of the legislative program it is intended that there be a transfer to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal of the present ministerial powers. I would like to know whether those provisions will have to be changed when the Tribunal has been established and, if so, whether the responsibility in those 2 areas- it could be reflected in other parts of the Bill- will be then transferred to the Tribunal and whether it would not be a good idea to suggest at that stage that a public hearing should Be conducted when licences are being considered. 
Another point I would like to raise concerns the dismissal and vacation of office. This matter was set out in clause 37 ofthe original Bill. It has been amended to some extent in the Bill that we are considering. It is now referred to in clause 10. I would like to know who determines whether a commissioner ought to be dismissed and the  modus operandi  of this action. I realise that the Governor-General has the ultimate responsibility to declare the position vacant. But what would happen in the case of, for example, a commissioner who divulged confidences of the Commission and who perhaps saw fit to make public statements on matters of confidentiality? I think that those things are important. They are not likely to happen very often but I would like to have a ministerial comment on that matter. 
Finally, I mention that there are still areas in South Australia that are not properly served by television. This matter has been the subject of comment by my colleagues from South Australia from time to time. I hasten to say that honourable senators on this side of the House do not claim the credit completely for what has happened in the area of Leigh Creek. I pay tribute to  Senator McLaren,  in case he is listening at the present time. I would hate him to misunderstand what I am saying. But I would like to say how pleased I am that the collective representations in this place are about to bear fruit. I understand that the building to house television at Leigh Creek will be completed by the end of this year, as a result of some assistance from the South Australian Government through the Electricity Trust, and that the equipment ought to be installed and working before the end of April. I would like to think that it will be a little earlier than that. I hope that the Minister will pay attention to the need for the provision of television to the Streaky Bay area and the areas surrounding Streaky Bay on the Eyre Peninsula. In recent times television facilities have been installed at Ceduna, but Streaky Bay, which is just some 70 miles away, cannot receive a picture because of topographical problems. I understand that experts from the Broadcasting Control Board are examining the Streaky Bay situation in particular. I hope that they will find an economic way of connecting that area to television. Perhaps it can be done per medium of the microwave link from South Australia to Western Australia. 
That covers the points that I was anxious to make with respect to this Bill. I hope that the Minister will be able to clear my mind with respect to the queries that I have raised and that he will also pay attention to the need to provide areas of South Australia, particularly in the Eyre Peninsula region, with a more adequate television service. 
-Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware of an assertion by the Assistant Secretary of the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation of Australia in Adelaide recently that the recent revaluation of the dollar will have an effect on job opportunities in the motor industry in South Australia because the Nissan and Toyota companies will now make some components outside Australia? Can the Minister say whether there is any substance in these claims? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister acquainted with the operation of the Australian Mineral Development Laboratories Act of South Australia. 
Is the Minister conversant with the Australian Government's responsibility and obligations under the agreement provided in section 2 (2) of the Act. 
Does a problem normally exist in the research field in bridging the gap between the researcher and the technologists and does the Australian Mineral Development Laboratories (known as AMDEL) fulfil this function. 
Is the Minister informed of the financial problems confronting the organistion resulting from a shortfall of work coming to AMDEL from the guarantors. If not, will he investigate the shortfall in the Australian Government's financial undertaking, which has not been upgraded since 1964, and is consequently reduced by approximately two-thirds of the original money value. 
Is the Australian Government's contribution to AMDEL made direct to AMDEL or through other Departments. If so, through which Departments and in what proportions. 
Would the Australian Atomic Energy Commission be able to utilise the specialist knowledge in AMDEL in connection with the exploration for uranium, and the development for production of yellow cake, from any fund. 
Is the Australian Atomic Energy Commission establishing a new section to service their exploration arm. If so, can this work be undertaken by using facilities at AMDEL. 
Can the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development utilise the existing facilities of AMDEL, particularly in regard to water resources. 
Will consideration be given by the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs to using AMDEL in developing consumer product standards. 
Is the Department of Foreign Affairs being encouraged to use the available facilities when the Australian Government is invited to participate or assist in developing countries particularly in Asia. 
Will the Minister draw to the attention of all Departments the Organisation and its objects which employs approximately 184 persons. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Science. I refer to the announced breakthrough in high temperature solar energy research at the Sydney University. Can the Minister give the Senate any information on this technique? Is it a fact that funds for this research project have been reduced? If so, in view of the importance of the development of this alternative energy source, can the Minister say why this expenditure has been cut back? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the inadequate television service to the west coast and upper Eyre Peninsula regions of South Australia. I ask: What is the current position concerning investigations carried out by Telecom Australia in an attempt to improve the unsatisfactory television reception over wide areas of western South Australia? Can the Minister say whether these areas will be included in the next phase of the television expansion program? When is this likely to begin? 

 Senator CARRICK I am aware of the honourable senator's active interest in this matter. I think he has asked me questions before concerning the Streaky Bay area and the Eyre Peninsula. As I am advised at the moment, engineering studies of the Eyre Peninsula, including Streaky Bay, have now been completed by officers of the Postal and Telecommunications Department. The investigations were commenced by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board last year. Following the abolition of the Board and the transfer of the planning functions to the Department, the studies have been finalised. Before a final decision is made by the Minister a number of other considerations have to be taken into account, including costing and environmental studies. It will be a number of months before the options are firm enough to be put to the Minister; but I will bring the honourable senator's question to the attention of the Minister. 
I rise to oppose the motion for the suspension of standing order 242. 1 must admit that when anything put forward by the present Government is unanimously supported by the Labor Party Opposition it immediately gives me some cause tor grave concern. I am sure that many anti-socialists in Australia would hold to that view. I believe that many Labor Party supporters would also share my concern when the Labor Party supports proposals such as those with which we are confronted in this debate. I support what  Senator Martin  said with respect to the matters discussed by the Australian Constitutional Convention in Hobart. Although some of my colleagues were made aware of the agenda items to be discussed I was not given an opportunity to display my views on this matter. Therefore, no consensus could be expressed with confidence by delegates to that convention. 
-Senator Rae has reinforced what I have just said. 
I have had an opportunity to discuss this matter with members of my State Party and the same reflection resulted from my conference with them. In fact, this whole exercise has been one of lack of consideration with respect to the importance of the matters we are discussing. It seems to me that matters of such moment, involving radical changes in the Constitution, should be subject to very serious debate in this place. Such debate did not evidence itself in the House of Representatives. A unanimous view_was expressed in the House of Representatives which I respect. I believe that the people of Australia ought to be confronted with an opposing thought if that should be in the minds of honourable senators. 
As a colleague has suggested, a reasoned argument is all that is required. This would meet with the approval of the people who send us to defend them in this place against possible irresponsibility of governments of the future. My view is that when we are discussing matters that have been referred to us by the Constitutional Convention it is fair to suggest that before substantive propositions are put before the Parliament, those propositions ought to be subjected to consideration by a subcommittee of the Constitutional Convention. It seems to me to be reasonable in the light of the experience I have gained in this matter in consultation with my State colleagues that that course of action should have been considered by the 
Government. In the absence of that consideration I support the retention of standing order 242 to give the public an opportunity to hear a reasoned argument on both sides of the question. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. The question relates to the quality of River Murray water, which is of great interest to South Australia. Is the Minister aware of a proposal by Australian Newsprint Mills Pty Ltd to establish a paper pulp mill in the vicinity of Albury, New South Wales? Can the Minister ascertain whether the River Murray Commission is satisfied that no harm will result to water quality if the project proceeds? Can the Minister say whether the River Murray Commission has been asked for advice in the preparation of an environmental impact statement by that company? 
It does not seem very long ago that we were debating a similar proposal in the electorate. I can recall campaigning quite vigorously for a No case in relation to a similar proposition in 1975. 1 have the feeling that there is no substantial difference in what we are proposing to put before the people now. I find it extremely difficult to completely reverse my opinion of the proposition. For that reason, I am hoping that later at the Committee stage of the debate I will be able to suggest an amendment which will meet with some support from honourable senators. I recall that when we were discussing this proposal in 1975 the suggestion was that we would have fewer elections as a result of a change to the Constitution. I really cannot select any better words than those used by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  to indicate my feelings on this matter. He used these words in a debate on 10 June 1975. He stated: 
Conceivably, a government could go back to the people time and time again forcing election after election, until it won control of the Senate. 
He used other words to that effect which seem to me to indicate that if we pass this type of proposal that is exactly what would happen, particularly if this power were in the hands of a Prime Minister who was ambitious, who wanted to gain control of this place and who was prepared to do anything to achieve that end. Undoubtedly this is the reason why the Australian Labor Party is unanimously supporting the measure which is before us. On 22 February  Senator Button  stated: 
Of course, the real importance and significance of this proposal from our point of view in the Opposition  is  that it does what many of its critics say it will do. It limits the significance and influence of the Senate. 
That is precisely why I am demonstrating my concern at this time. I believe that we ought to be considering some measure under which we can govern the interval between simultaneous elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate. I say quite frankly that I am not opposed to the principle of simultaneous elections. I am concerned about the frequency of elections if that power is in the hands of an irresponsible Prime Minister. I believe that the best answer to this matter would be to adopt a provision similar to that which prevails in South Australia There the Constitution Act provides that the Upper House, the Legislative Council, is guaranteed a full term of 6 years and that the Premier in that State cannot take the Upper House out at an election at intervals of less than 3 years. I propose to move at the Committee stage of this debate to limit the interval between elections. As far as I am concerned I am totally opposed to the principle behind this referendum proposal, but like  Senator Archer  I believe that if I demonstrate this opposition too vigorously people may think I am implying that I do not want the electorate to have a say. That is why I hope I can persuade honourable senators to support the amendment at the Committee stage. 
-I present the following petition from 266 citizens: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide SO per cent of all funding for Australia s roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5, 903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
Petition received and read. 
I propose to move the amendment which has been circulated in my name, the purpose of which is to replace proposed new section 13 with a different new section 13. 1 regret that  Senator Wright's  amendments were not acceptable to the Committee, and I hope that my foreshadowed amendment will meet with the approval of Government senators and of the Committee. Despite what has been said by my colleagues in attempting to rebut those of us who have objections to this measure, I still hold firmly to the view that the dangers inherent in it are as real today as they were m 1975 when members of the Liberal and National Country parties in this chamber displayed their total opposition to it. Together with  Senator Wright  and other honourable senators who have supported him, I do not oppose the principle of simultaneous elections as such. However, we do object to and see grave consequences in the adoption of that principle providing any Prime Minister or Executive with unbridled power indiscriminately to dissolve the Senate.  Senator Durack  sees no threat at all in this measure and he has indicated his confidence that a future government is not likely to use that power. I do not share his confidence that  Mr Whitlam  would not take the Senate to the people at frequent intervals if he could see that by doing so it would enhance his chances of abolishing the Senate and of socialising Australia. 
I would not be confident also that a Prime Minister of the character of  Senator Keeffe,  who is  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, would not use that power to achieve his goal of abolishing this House. He has admitted that he is in this place only to witness the abolition of this chamber. If I were  Senator Durack  I would not be confident either if  Senator McLaren,  by some horrific turn of fate, became Prime Minister, because he has the same objective. Only last night  Senator McLaren  revealed by way of interjection his view that the sooner we are rid of this place the better, or words to that effect. 
The amendment I propose is based on the Constitution Act of South Australia, although modified in the hope that the Government would be prepared to compromise and accept my amendment as a reasonable proposition. The amendment seeks to provide for a minimum interval of 18 months between simultaneous elections. I would really like to see a longer period provided for because I feel that it is quite wrong, in the concept of the Senate, that if the House of Representatives should go to the people purely for the purpose of gaining a political advantage it could force half the Senate out at the same time. For the benefit of the Committee I shall read parts of the proposed new section which I wish to amend. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! The Committee is about to suspend its sitting for the lunch break.  Senator Jessop,  you have circulated an amendment which is not in the recognised form and I suggest that during the lunch period you might re-word your amendment so that it meets the requirements of the Committee. I understand that it has been agreed on both sides of the House that the Committee should resume at 2 p.m. instead of 2. 1 5 p.m. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting my attention was drawn to the fact that my amendment did not conform with Committee procedure. That has now been corrected. I move: 
Leave out proposed section 1 3 ( 1 ) to (6), insert, 
( 1 ) Subject to this section a term of service of a senator expires upon the expiry or dissolution of the first House of Representatives to expire or be dissolved after the senator has held office under that term for 3 years or, if there is an earlier dissolution of the Senate, upon that dissolution. 
As soon as may be after the first meeting of the Senate following a dissolution of the Senate, the Senate shall divide the senators chosen for each State into two classes. 
In the case of each State, where the number of senators to be divided is an even number the number of senators in each of the two classes shall be equal and where the number of senators to be divided is an odd number the number of senators in the first class shall be one more than the number in the second class. 
Sub-section (1) of this section applies to senators included in the first class, but the term of service of a senator of the second class expires upon the expiry or dissolution of the first House of Representatives to expire or be dissolved after the senator has held office under that term for eighteen months, or, if there is an earlier dissolution of the Senate, upon that dissolution. 
Where, since the election of senators for a State following a dissolution of the Senate but before the division of the senators for that State into classes in pursuance of this section, the place of a senator chosen at that election has become vacant, the division of senators shall be made as if the place of that senator had not so become vacant and, for the purposes of section fifteen of this Constitution, the term of service of that senator shall be deemed to be, and to have been, the period for which he would have held his place, in accordance with this section, if his place had not so become vacant. 
In the case of a senator holding office at the commencement of this section- 
if his term of service would, under the provisions in force before that commencement, have expired on the thirtieth day of June, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-eight, his term of service shall expire upon the expiry or dissolution of the first House of Representatives to expire or be dissolved after he has held office under that term for eighteen months or, 
if his term of service would, under the provisions in force before that commencement, have expired on the thirtieth day of June, One thousand nine hundred and eigh ty-one, his term of service shall expire upon the expiry or dissolution of the first House of Representatives to expire or be dissolved after he has held office under that term for three years, or if there is an earlier dissolution of the Senate, upon that dissolution.'. 
I will ignore what has just been said by  Senator McLaren  because it is not worthy of reply. I would like to reply to  Senator Missen  and  Senator Hall  and suggest that apart from completely ignoring the provisions of section 57 of the Constitution,  Senator Missen  forgot to read my amendment in full. If he had done he would have seen at the end of my amendment words that I had inserted deliberately, namely: 
. or if there is an earlier dissolution of the Senate, upon that dissolution. ' 
I think that answers his question. 
Regrettably the Committee has not seen fit to accept the amendment proposed to this Bill. Although I have demonstrated my personal opposition to it and tried to persuade the Government and the Senate that there are dangers in it, it is obvious that the weight of numbers is such that the majority of honourable senators seem to be in favour of it. I have decided now to leave it to the good judgment of the Australian people to make a final decision on this issue. However, I would like to say that the debate that has taken place in this Chamber seems to me to epitomise the independence of the Senate and the true spirit of this place. 
Labor Party supporters say that we are brawling. I think that is an indication that there is a certain amount of jealousy on their part because we on this side of the chamber have the right and the privilege- indeed the duty on occasions- to disagree with the Government. In so doing we have enabled a contrary view to be put for the benefit, the education and the information of the electorate. That is a duty we have fulfilled and I commend the people on this side of the chamber, both those who have spoken against the Bill and those who have spoken in favour of it, on the constructive way in which they have tried to help the people of Australia. 
I have pleasure in supporting the AddressinReply motion to the Speech which was so graciously delivered by  Her  Majesty the Queen yesterday. I have listened with interest to the speakers preceding me in this debate. I must at this stage pay a tribute to  Senator Lewis  who made his maiden speech this afternoon. Since he entered this chamber,  Senator Lewis  has shown that he has an active interest in the welfare of Victoria, in particular the country areas in which he lives.  His  speech in the Senate today was a credit to him and should give confidence to the people of Victoria that in  Senator Lewis  they have a worthwhile person who is interested in their welfare, particularly in the rural community. 
I also listened with interest to  Senator Douglas  McClelland who referred repeatedly to the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and, by inference, suggested that our performance had not been too good. One of the highlights of the Prime Minister's policy speech was the acknowledgement that it would take our Government 3 years to reverse the tide of inflation and unemployment that had been created by the previous administration. I do not care how many times we remind the people of Australia that the 3 years of the socialist regime, before we took over, completely wrecked the Australian economy. Of course, as is well known, when in Opposition one makes policy speeches which reflect the plight in which the country finds itself. However, when one then has access to the Treasury records and realises that the situation is even worse than was estimated it is fair to say that problems will be associated with the implementing of those policies. 
It also must not be forgotten that for the first 7 months of our period in administration we were relying on the Hayden Labor Budget which in itself was quite incredible because it anticipated or prophesied an increase in national wages of 22 per cent which implied a 43 per cent rise in personal income tax. Actually we have had not quite 8 months in which to see the effects of the measures we introduced in August last year. It must be encouraging to realise that those measures have had some significant effect. The gross domestic product for the September quarter of last year was 7.3 per cent up on the September quarter 1975. That encourages me to believe that our Budget is having a desirable effect. 
Apart from inheriting a wrecked economy from the Labor Government, we also have had to provide from revenue a considerable amount of money- something of the order of 25 per cent -for social welfare payments. We pay a considerable amount of our revenue to the States directly for their use according to their priorities. So, we have not much remaining with which to create all the necessary incentives at the one time. Immediately we came into Government we recognised the stupidity of the Labor administration in allowing such a disparity between wage and tax increases and, very soon after we came into office, we introduced tax indexation which at least provides that as salaries increase taxation increases by the same percentage. 
I am concerned about the unemployment that is apparent in the community at present. It was incredible to hear recently that 40 per cent of those unemployed reared voluntarily from their jobs. People have asked me why those people should be entitled to the unemployment benefit. This seems to me to be a question that the Government should look at. 
-I believe that there is a strong argument in favour of that suggestion, yes. 
-I believe it would be a reasonable proposition to put. 

 - Senator Grimes may laugh. If he resigned from his job does he think that he should be entitled to unemployment support from taxpayers? I also am concerned about the manner in which people are seeking jobs. It occurs to me that we may well look at one of the systems which operates in two or three other countries where people seeking employment nominate two or three jobs in order of preference and, if those jobs in order of preference are not available within a limited time, they are required to accept another position until a vacancy occurs in their preferred work situation. It occurs to me that that is the type of system we ought to be looking at in an attempt to place people in employment in Australia. 
I am also a bit concerned about some officers in the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. I recall that a young man I know very well from a family I know very well applied for a job as a labourer. The first question he was asked was: 'Do you want unemployment benefits?' He would then become a statistic. He said: 'No, I do not want the unemployment benefit; I want work as a labourer. ' This young man went out of that office quite disillusioned that the carrot of the unemployment benefit was dangled in front of him before he was asked what sort of job he required. He subsequently got a job as a labourer. But he was disillusioned by the approach taken by the office he attended. 
-Yes, I believe so. The spirit of self-help in the community must be encouraged in an effort to overcome the disastrous effects of the previous administration. 
Her Majesty's Speech outlined the policies of the Government and the philosophy behind what we believe is the way to correct the economic situation in Australia. Her Majesty said, as recorded at page 4 of  Hansard: 
The prosperity of the Australian people depends upon the strength of its productive private sector, on its manufacturing, mining and rural industries. 
My Government is providing incentives and encouragement to the private sector, and is reducing its own relative demands on national resources so that private industry may have room to grow, provide employment and increase the well-being of all Australians. 
Of course, this is the basis or the backbone of our economy. After all, the private sector provides 75 per cent of the jobs in Australia and should be given the incentive to expand its activities, to provide more job opportunities and to increase its productivity. Therefore, I personally support an early restructuring of the complete taxation system- from the personal side right through to the sales tax area. I think that we must look at this as soon as possible. I realise that in the present economic climate the Government cannot do this all at once. Estimates have been made that if we were to do something realistic in the area of personal taxation the cost in lost revenue would be $1.5 billion. I am one who believes that there are some people- not only professionals but tradesmen as well- who are withholding their services from the community because of the penalty of high taxation. I know that the Government recognises this and I hope that as soon as possible something will be done about it. 
Instances have been cited in my State of bricklayers who choose to work for two or three days a week. They are capable of earning $200 a day. Some people are willing to work at weekends perhaps for a colour television set. Others, rather than charge $300 for bricklaying work, will settle for $200 in cash and in that way evade the taxation for which they should be liable. It occurs to me that apart from the withholding of services from the community in the dental and medical area- in fact, this is happening- if we paid attention as early as possible to providing incentive for these people to work more, and for the average worker to perform overtime work without incurring incredible tax penalties, our productivity would increase. It occurs to me that more jobs would be made available because of the incentive created to employers to expand their activities and to provide further job opportunities. I hope that as soon as possible the Government will be able to act in that area which is of great concern to many people in our community. 
I refer also to that paragraph of  Her  Majesty's Speech which states that people must be encouraged in the manufacturing, mining and rural industries. Of course, this means that we must pay some attention to the provision of adequate transport facilities. In recent weeks petitions have been presented in the Senate from many local government authorities with respect to road funding. During the last session of the Parliament I, together with some of my colleagues, received a deputation from the Australian Council of Local Government Associations. The members of the deputation stressed the plight that many rural local government authorities find themselves in with respect to the road funding issue. We have to remember that local government is a major rural employer. Local government provides employment for 40 per cent of the people in our country areas. Therefore, local government is quite justifiably concerned that the future funding for roads is sufficient for it to continue employing outside road working gangs and to maintain employment at the highest possible level. I believe that the submission from the Council which I have seen was a reasonable one. The Council has suggested that the Government ought to be looking at an increase of $403m in the total expenditure on roads for the program ending in 1981. The Bureau of Roads recommendation was that we should be spending $5,500m. I believe that the Government ought to be looking at that proposal sympathetically because it would be in the interests of local government in maintaining employment in the road construction area. After all, the roads of Australia must be considered to be a national asset. Because of the effect that inflation has on increased road construction and maintenance costs, it is vital that the Government provides adequate funds to protect and preserve this very important national asset. 
I was interested in the summary that the Australian Council of Local Government Associations presented to us. In particular, I was interested in the statement from the Council that local government believes that unless its recommendations are adopted, a national asset will waste and Australia's roads will deteriorate further. Local government also asks the Commonwealth Government to maintain an adequate road categorisation system, endeavour to achieve a uniform system of categories, resume 5 year forward planning and appropriations, and ensure that the proposed amalgamation of the Bureau of Roads with the Bureau of Transport Economics does not impair the important policy advisory role of the Bureau of Roads or its high level of independence and professionalism. Of course, that is a matter which has concerned local government and other bodies interested in roads throughout Australia. 
The Bureau of Roads was set up in 1964. It had an independence which I think was most important. It had a capacity to advise the Minister for Transport directly with respect to certain road projects. It is vital that the Government in its future actions with respect to this Bureau bears in mind the importance of paying regard to the value that local government authorities have placed on its functioning. I have raised the question on several occasions in the Senate and have been assured that my concern was noted by the Government. I hope that when we face up to the repeal of the Bureau of Roads Act we will try to ensure that the independent functioning of this area of expertise is assured. 
There are many other matters that arise as a result of Her Majesty's Speech which are of considerable interest. I refer to the proposal with respect to housing whereby the Government will introduce a scheme under which young couples will be able to participate in a voucher system to ensure that they can provide the type of accommodation that they believe is best suited to their purposes. The housing voucher pilot scheme for low income earners will enable them to choose the accommodation most suited to their needs when the scheme is given effect. I hope that the Government will act quickly because in the area of housing there is a need that has to be filled. It would seem to me to be a very progressive step to introduce a measure of that type. 
There are many other aspects of the Speech to which I would like to refer but time will not permit me to go into detail on all of them. One aspect that I would like to ask the Government to examine carefully concerns medical services in rural areas. A friend of mine has been very active in examing the need to provide medical services in rural areas. He presented a report to the South Australian branch of the Australian Medical Association last year. In this he drew attention to the need to re-examine and re-assess the training of general practitioners so that they will be able to go out into the more remote areas of Australia better equipped to deal with matters such as emergency surgery. These days, it appears, the question of emergency surgery is not given sufficient attention in medical training. 
Another responsibility that governments have to face up to is the provision of adequate manpower in rural communities throughout Australia. Of course, it is very attractive for a young doctor to remain in the city close to large hospitals with specialist services readily available; but it is another matter to ask a young doctor to go into a country area where perhaps the hospital is not quite up to the standard of many of the metropolitan hospitals. It occurs to me that there ought to be a provision whereby young doctors are required in some way or other to spend at least a year in an area of need in the community. I made a submission today to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  drawing his attention to the constructive recommendations of this report.  Mr President,  I think you will recall  Dr Cooter  who is a mutual friend of ours.  Senator Young,  too, knows him. He is dedicated to ensuring that the medical profession recognises this need and that it does something about it. I think that the Government ought to encourage that attitude within the profession and give some impetus to it. I hope that the Minister for Health will digest this report carefully and come forward with some proposals that will rectify what I believe to be a very serious deficiency in our medical health program to service rural communities. I also suggest that the Royal Flying Doctor Service of Australia ought to be given a little more help. 
It provides a tremendous service throughout Australia.  Senator Davidson  says 'Hear, hear!' He has been concerned with this matter for a long time. He was on the federal council for a long time and has an intimate interest in the Service. 
-I have been to Queensland, too. I have had a look at the Flying Doctor Service in Queensland and have visited the original tin shed at Cloncurry-I think it was- from which the flying doctor operated. I commend the service that has developed there. But one cannot provide the service without adequate funding. I can recall when I first went to Port Augusta I pioneered an optical service associated with the Royal Flying Doctor Service. Believe me, it is an interesting experience to have to examine a patient in a dugout at Coober Pedy, for example, without any lights, to have to rely on opening a door to get light on a chart. I recall my first visit to that town many years ago when I had to use a kerosene case as an instrument table and I had to improvise. I hope I provided those people with some service. Of course, nowadays the Royal District Nursing Society and church organisations have provided hospitals, nursing facilities and consulting rooms that people can use and it is a different kettle of fish now. But people who live in the cities cannot possibly realise the hardships that people in those areas have had to put up with. I commend the Flying Doctor Service for what it has done. I believe it is a responsibility predominantly of our Government to see that adequate funds are provided to ensure that the medical services in those areas are of the highest possible standard. I have pleasure in supporting the Address-in-Reply. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the Joy report concerning the Crystal Brook-Adelaide rail standardisation program. Is the Minister aware that his colleague in the other place last month received a deputation from South Australia, including the State Minister of Transport,  Senator Bishop  and myself to discuss this project? Has the Minister been informed that at that meeting  Mr Nixon  invited the State Minister and his departmental officials to consult with Australian National Railways officials in order to make constructive suggestions with respect to a standardisation program alternative to the original plan advocated in the Maunsell report? Is it a fact that  Mr Nixon  invited the State Minister to consult with him again on this alternative? Can the Minister say whether the Federal Minister for Transport has arranged another meeting to discuss this matter? If so, when will that meeting take place? If not, will the Minister ask his colleague to contact  Mr Virgo  so that matters associated with this project can be resolved to the mutual satisfaction of both Governments? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, relates to an article in the  Sunday -Mail  of 12 March 1977 concerning assistance to children with handicaps resulting from congenital causes or various forms of amputation. Is the Minister aware that a body called the Children's Amputee Association has been formed in South Australia? Is she aware of an anomaly which the Association claims has arisen in 2 apparently identical cases for assistance provided under the handicapped children's allowance scheme? Can she say why assistance for one case was approved and the other rejected? Is she able to state whether the facts as suggested in the article are correct? If so, can she clarify the guidelines laid down by the Government for the granting of such assistance? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the order of the day standing on the notice paper for 25 February 1977 relating to the motion to take note of the report of the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment entitled 'Review of the Report of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution', be restored to the notice paper and be an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. It refers to a report in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 1 4 March 1977 regarding the establishment of a Law Reform Committee to inquire into legal problems facing the development of solar energy in South Australia. Has the Minister been informed that the object of the inquiry is to encourage the technological development of solar energy and to ensure that possible legal and social problems arising from extensive use of solar energy are recognised in advance? Will the Minister indicate whether matters concerning legal aspects of solar energy development have been discussed at conferences of AttorneysGeneral? Is the Minister in a position to state what action is contemplated by the Commonwealth Government in regard to Territories under its jurisdiction to regulate future developments in solar energy? Did the South Australian Government discuss the terms of reference for the inquiry with the Commonwealth prior to establishing this Committee? 
I want to comment on this item because it arises from a report of Estimates Committee F of which I am a member and it received quite a bit of support from the Committee  Chairman, Senator Rae,  who is not here at present. Although the action recommended to be taken by the Standing Orders Committee does not go as far as our Committee would have liked it does at least indicate- the second report of the Standing Orders Committee referred to the spirit of gradualism- that it is a step in the right direction. Members of Estimates Committee F have been concerned for some time that some government funded authorities have been escaping the proper scrutiny of the Parliament and I believe that the establishment of this new estimates committee on a continuing basis certainly will provide an ongoing overview of government expenditure by various authorities. Certainly this proposal will inhibit the capacity of members of other estimates committees to follow through questions that they may have in their minds from time to time in view of our other Senate parliamentary duties but I hope that we will look at this innovation carefully after it has been in operation for 1 8 months and, if it is not performing the job that we believe it should perform, we will give consideration to extending it along the lines suggested in the report of Senate Estimates Committee F. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Item 9- Attendance of Committee members' research officers at Committee meetings. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It relates to the reported statement in the Melbourne  Age  on 12 March 1977 that the Federal and State governments will set up an Australian Railway Research and Development Organisation to be incorporated as a company in Victoria and that this company will be under the control of State railway representatives and the secretary of the Federal Department of Transport. Will there also be a representative on the board of the organisation from the Australian National Railways? The report also states that this company will be financed by a levy imposed on all governments. Is the Minister in a position to provide the Senate with details of the proposed company, its precise functions and the anticipated running costs to the Federal and State governments? Does this mean an increase in freight charges and passenger fares? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science and refer to the solar heating installation at the premises of Coca-Cola Bottlers at Queanbeyan which will result in a considerable saving of oil. Can the Minister give details of the involvement of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in this project? Does CSIRO have plans to encourage the installation of such plants in other industrial establishments throughout Australia? 
Has the Minister for Science noted the claim by Professor Stuart Butler, the Deputy Chairman of the Academic Board of Sydney University, that there have been further startling advances towards a world breakthrough in the commercial use of solar energy? Can the Minister say whether there is any substance in the statement in today's  Australian  that at a research and development cost to the Federal Government of less than $ 10m over the next 5 years scientists could perfect the technology to convert solar energy into electrical energy and then into liquefied hydrogen for export? Is the Minister able to provide the Senate with further information on this subject? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. I refer to a recent report that a warning has been given by 2 scientists of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial 
Research Organisation that toddlers at Port Pirie in South Australia who have the habit of putting soil in their mouths run the risk of lead poisoning and that this could lead to problems in their health, development and behaviour in later life. The same scientists suggest also that the concentration of lead and cadmium in vegetables grown in that area greatly exceeds the concentration in vegetables grown in the Adelaide area. In view of the consternation shown by the City Council and by other citizens of Port Pirie, can the Minister provide the Senate with further information on this matter? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. It is partly associated with her capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that there is no government assistance for research into the causes of multiple sclerosis? As approximately 1 1 600 Australians suffer from this disease and allied diseases can the Minister say whether the Government proposes taking any action to correct this apparent anomaly? Is it a fact that Australian multiple sclerosis societies are funded largely by voluntary agencies? As multiple sclerosis tends to become manifest in the early 30s and as this severely affects the family as well as the patient, can the Minster say whether any special welfare provisions apply for people suffering from this chronic condition? 
I ask the Minister for Science whether he is aware that pleas for further assistance in the funding of solar energy research have apparently attracted the interest of Saudi Arabia. Is there any substance in the report that Saudi Arabia is seeking to co-operate with Australia in joint solar energy research studies? Will the Minister refresh his memory on the representations and correspondence which I have had with the Government over a number of years on the need for increased funding to allow experiments into alternative energy sources which have been under way at Flinders University to be accelerated? If the Government is contemplating entering into research partnerships, which I would support, can the Minister say whether research efforts throughout Australia into solar energy will be included in such a program? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the shorter working week commenced by Telecom Australia employees on 27 March. I understand that shift workers will commence their shorter week approximately a week later. Is the Minister aware of a circular letter which has been distributed to all union members in South Australia and which states in part that Telecom is being acquainted with the names of union members in order that the benefit is not applied to nonunionists? Is the Minister also aware that some people have a conscientous objection to joining a union for valid reasons and that many of these people pay an amount equivalent to the union fee to a charity? I cite as an example a person I know who pays this money to the South Australian Institute for the Blind on an annual basis. Is it not a fact that the former Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, approved this practice in principle? Will the Minister ask his colleague in another place to examine this position with a view to approving this alternative to union membership in order to prevent this blatant discrimination against some members of Telecom? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. Has the Minister noted the statement by  Mr Dunstan,  Premier of South Australia, that his Government is now opposed to the mining and export of uranium? Does this attitude conflict with the view of the Federal Opposition? Is it not a fact that not long ago the State Government was most anxious to establish a uranium enrichment plant in South Australia? Can the Minister indicate the extent of uranium deposits in that State and whether the development of such deposits will contribute to the State's economy? Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to that part of  Mr Dunstan  's statement which refers in these words to the dangers of nuclear waste: 
One of the most dangerous aspects of uranium mining and export was the disposal of nuclear waste. 
Is it correct that no nuclear wastes are produced as a result of the mining and processing of uranium? Does this statement not conflict with the conclusion of the Fox committee that there are no environmental problems associated with the processing and mining of uranium provided that proper management techniques are observed? 
-Is the Minister for Social Security aware of the proposal submitted by the Corporation of the City of Port Augusta which is currently being considered by the South Australian Housing Trust whereby up to fifty urgently needed hostel units for aged people could be provided in that city? Has the Minister examined this submission wherein it is proposed that the Housing Trust, which is empowered to build living units, could hold a certificate of title to that pan of the complex and the Corporation could build and own the administrative block which would provide kitchen, laundry and dining facilities for the tenants? Has the Minister noted that this establishment could be achieved with a Commonwealth contribution of only $ 120,000 and that under the present Act relating to aged and disabled persons homes the same accommodation would cost the Commonwealth in excess of $700,000? Can the Minister inform me whether the present Act permits this type of project to be funded? If not, in view of the present economic restraints on Commonwealth expenditure, would the Minister consider appropriate amendments to the Act to enable this project to be carried out as a pilot scheme for the rest of Australia? I believe this original concept would be an ideal way to expand the provision of accommodation for aged people in Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the proposal by the Government to grant certain taxing powers to the States. Is the Minister aware that according to a recent statement by my South Australian colleague,  Mr McLeay,  in the Adelaide  News,  South Australians already pay the highest level of tax in Australia. Does the Minister realise that South Australian stamp duty on a $35,000 home is $730 while in New South Wales this State tax is $502? Does he also realise that State land tax rose by up to 900 per cent in South Australia last year while in the other States the increase was negligible? Bearing in mind the greater tax raising capacity of the larger States of New South Wales and Victoria and the already higher imposition placed upon taxpayers in South Australia, does the Federal Government have any plan to offset any financial inequity that may occur to taxpayers in the small States after the introduction of the Federal tax raising reform? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) What positive action has resulted from recommendations in the Report of the River Murray Working Party to the Steering Committee of Ministers under 9.1 (i) (a) (b), (ii) (a) (b) (c) (d), (iii) and (iv). 
Is detailed drafting of necessary amendments under 9.2 of the Report nearing completion. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General and concerns what I consider to be an urgent need for uniform firearms legislation. The question follows what seems to be an increase in the use of firearms in crimes of violence in Australia, the last and most tragic example of this being the shooting and maiming in South Australia of 2 young policemen in the course of their duty. Can the Minister inform me whether the subject of uniform laws controlling the sale, registration, carrying and use of firearms throughout Australia has been discussed at a recent conference of Attorneys-General? What is the attitude of the Federal Government to complementary legislation being enacted by the States and by the Commonwealth in the Territories under its jurisdiction? If the matter of uniform legislation has not been discussed recently, will the Federal Government initiate moves to have it discussed as a matter of national importance? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister able to say when the local Leigh Creek television station is expected to be operational? Can the Minister say what arrangements have been made to ensure that appropriate programs, including topical South Australian segments, are made available to viewers in that area? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the report presented on the Stuart Highway some time ago. Is it a fact that 2 alternative schemes were suggested regarding the routing of this national highway between Port Augusta and Alice Springs? Is it also a fact that the State Minister,  Mr Virgo,  wrote to the Federal Government in February conveying the State Government's views about which route should be followed? Can the Minister say whether his colleague has given consideration to this correspondence and whether a substantive reply has been sent to  Mr Virgo?  If not, can the Minister say why there has been a delay and when a reply wil be sent to  Mr Virgo?  Can he also say when his colleague will be in a position to make a decision on the route to be followed? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, by stating that I fully support the convention that a State government should fill a casual vacancy in the Senate with a senator of the same political persuasion as the senator who is being replaced. Is the Minister aware that delegates at the Hobart meeting agreed that it was impossible to find a form of words that would provide for all contingencies when filling a casual Senate vacancy, as did the 1958-59 Joint Committee on Constitutional Review? Why did the Government not write into the Constitution Alteration (Senate Casual Vacancies) Bill reference to a casual vacancy caused by the death or  bona fide  illness of a senator? Why did the Government proceed with this Bill in the knowledge that it did not conform with the spirit of the Constitutional Convention in Hobart? Under the existing provisions of the Bill, how does the Government propose filling a casual vacancy caused by the death or  bona fide  illness of (a) an independent senator, (b) a senator who resigns from his party, (c) a senator who has been expelled from his party and (d) a senator whose party has merged with or broken away from another party? Finally, as a political party is not defined in the proposed legislation, can the Minister indicate how this would be determined? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to, or did he hear, a segment of the  AM  program this morning which was devoted to an alleged attack on Michael Danby by Trotskyite students at a rally. 
Communists, if you like. Let us be honest. Let us use the words 'communist students'. It was alleged in the segment that the students struck the said Michael Danby with a banner purported to have been a Eureka Stockade flag. Is the Minister able to give a report on that incident? The second part of my question relates to the same subject. Is the Minister aware that 2 Adelaide University students, for conscientious objection reasons, refused to contribute $2.50 of their fees to the funds of the Australian Union of Students? In view of this type of activity, will the Minister consider enabling such students to opt out of contributions to a political fund that obviously is used to encourage violence in Australia? 
The motion before the Senate concerns everyone in this chamber. I think it is proper to draw to the attention of the Senate the plight of the motor vehicle industry. I disagree with  Senator Button  that honourable senators on this side of the chamber have sympathies with General MotorsHolden 's Pty Ltd and that the sympathies of honourable senators opposite lie with the trade union movement. Our view has always been that the Government Parties are concerned with the welfare of the whole of the community.  Senator Button  pointed to our attitude to industrial unrest in Australia. I think it is quite proper that any responsible government should take action to minimise industrial disputation and to deal with a minor group of militant union officials who have, in many instances, been imported from overseas and trained overseas in disrupting industry. There has been reference to the Central Intelligence Agency. I can imagine that many of these trade union officials would be under the influence of the KGB. I ask honourable senators to think about that. 
As far as honourable senators on this side of the chamber are concerned, the Government and the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  in particular, acted very quickly- far more quickly, of course, than the Labor Party- with respect to the motor car industry. Through the Minister the Government's long term policies were laid down on 30 March 1976, not long after we came into Government. The objective of our policy is to develop an economic and efficient industry with a high Australian content, operating under levels of protection which are acceptable to the Australian community. We have enunciated the policy through the Minister on previous occasions. 
I certainly recognise the significance and importance of the motor vehicle industry, particularly to South Australia. According to the latest figures that I have been able to obtainpossibly honourable senators may have even more up to date figures than I have but my figures will serve to illustrate this particular point- in relation to the motor vehicle industry and motor vehicle parts industry in South Australia, at the end of 1973-74 there were 109 establishments employing 20 061 males and 2547 females, a total workforce of 22 608. They were being paid salaries to the tune of $ 140m a year. The turnover at that time in South Australia was nearly $500m. Opening stock valuation at July 1973 was $70m and, at the close of June 1974, was $94m 
Since those days the motor vehicle industry has come into fairly rough waters. I do not entirely absolve the industry from blame. As a matter of fact, I have had many consultations with the industry. I brought up the matter of market planning. I asked why they had been making so many 8-cylinder cars and so many medium sized cars when the trend obviously was towards the smaller motor vehicle. This trend will continue. I certainly do not absolve the industry from blame in that area. I noticed that  Senator Gietzelt  is nodding his head in agreement. Nevertheless, we have to recognise that General Motors, in particular, has a peculiar problem compared with other parts of the motor vehicle industry. This is illustrated in the  Financial Review  today. It refers to the General dropping its colours to Ford. It notice that the vehicle units per employee at the Ford Motor Co. in Australia are 9.1, but at General Motors-Holden 's vehicle units per employee are only seven. There is obviously something wrong in the overall long term planning of General Motors-Holden 's if those figures are true. 
I think General Motors has quite properly employed the services of the motor industry analysts, ADAPS, which was referred to by the Minister. ADAPS foreshadowed that worse things will come. Bearing in mind that the world oil shortage is becoming increasingly acute and that the cost of oil and petrol will undoubtedly rise, I would think that the motor car industry is entering into a period of radical change and that it may not be too long before we will be driving around not in 4-cylinder cars but perhaps even 2- stroke cars, which will come into fashion. 
Perhaps in the far distant future the horse and buggy will find favour in the world market place. 
One aspect that must be looked at by the motor car industry is the need to provide research and development- I know this is happening but it ought to be happening to a greater extent- into steam car development and into electric car development. I noticed that at question time yesterday my colleague,  Senator Missen,  asked the Minister whether the Government would consider providing funds for research and development into a Victorian steam car project. I took up the cudgels with the Government on behalf of an Adelaide inventor who is also developing a steam car. The Flinders University requires funds to support its electric car development. This is a very interesting vehicle which has a battery operated motor which propels a small vehicle. I do not think the University is prepared to divulge the extent of its research at the present time but I understand that at present this vehicle can probably travel at about 50 miles an hour for about 40 or 50 miles, but that has to be improved. I am quite confident that the motor industry in Australia could help in that regard by redoubling its efforts to find some way out of its problems in the long term. The Opposition has implied that the Government has been fairly soft in respect of General Motors. Let me quote the statement made by  Mr Street  as reported in the  Canberra Times oil  May: 
The Federal Minister Tor Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  said in Bathurst on Saturday that it was very regettable  and very disturbing' that GM-H had acted without consultation with the Government. 

 Mr Street said the matter would be discussed at a regular meeting of the Government's economic consultative group tomorrow. 

 Senator Cotton has already referred to that meeting at which he was present and which dealt with the problems that arose unexpectedly as far as the Government is concerned. In answer to questions on 3 May in the House of Representatives the Prime Minister said :   it ought to be said at the outset that in advising the Government of the current state of the industry- there were eight or ten representatives of the industry, including General Motors-Holden 's Pty Ltd present on that occasion, on 20 April- nobody raised the problems that General Motors has since learned about and has since been experiencing. 
He went on to say: 
It is clear that there is an industry situation at the moment and a General Motors situation. 
I referred to that earlier. If the industry itself is at fault in market planning- the figures I cited from the  Australian Financial Review  indicate that the vehicle unit output per employee for Ford is 9. 1 and for GM-H is 7- then perhaps some serious rethinking has to be done by General Motors. We have to look at the first part of the Opposition's motion, which reads: 
The community's serious concern about General Motors-Holden 's proposal to enforce all employees to take one week's leave; 
Opposition supporters seem to be paranoid about multi-national companies. They seem to be paranoid about any section of the industry making a profit. I would like to remind the Opposition that multi-national companies are also multi-million employers. They employ millions of people in Australia and those employees are multi-million dollar taxpayers into the Government's coffers. I would suggest that at this time when the country is faced with tremendous unemployment difficulties, that have undoubtedly been caused by the previous Administration, this Government is taking this matter very, very seriously and doing what it can to restrain public sector expenditure to encourage the private sector to develop. Not the least of our concern is the motor industry. The Minister in answer to a question on the radio program  AM,  I think, said that he was in constant touch with the unions, and in constant touch with the motor vehicle industry. In my opinion- and I think it is reasonable to suggest that the majority of people in Australia would share the view- it is far better to suggest to employees that they have a week's leave rather than face possible retrenchment. 
I think perhaps the way the announcement was made left the trade union movement floundering. Perhaps the company was not as diplomatic as it should have been in respect of proper consultation with the Government and the unions. I would suggest that the lesson has been learned; if it has not, it should have been learned. The Government certainly, according to what the Minister has said, is not entirely in agreement with what has happened, in fact far from it. But I am certainly happy with the way in which the Minister is approaching the matter and the way in which the Prime Minister is dealing with it. I believe that with continued close co-operation and close consultation with not only the employers but also the trade union movement, and with some sympathy in respect of the problems they are facing, we will be able to overcome this very serious dilemma in which they find themselves at the present time. I congratulate the Minister on what he is doing. I will give him my full support to assist him to overcome this very serious problem. 
This Bill has created quite a deal of interest, particularly among local government authorities in South Australia. Since I have been a member of Parliament, which goes back a few years now, I do not think I have received as many representations from local government on any matter as I have received on the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads (Repeal) Bill. 
They are not opposed to the concept of the repeal of the Act, but the essence of the representations which I have had is that they are anxious that whatever the Government does it should strive to maintain the independent status or statutory authority of the advisory group that will take its place. I have raised this matter in the Senate on numerous occasions. I have cast my doubts on the wisdom of introducing a departmental authority rather than a statutory authority. I was quite interested in  Senator Keeffe  's remarks about the centralistic implications of this Bill. It seemed to be quite odd coming from him, particularly when he supports many measures which have that implication. In the past the intent of the previous Government was quite specific. This Bill purports to maintain the advice to the Government that has been forthcoming from the Bureau of Roads. 
I recall raising the question at an estimates committee some time ago of whether it was advisable to have a Bureau of Transport Economics and a Bureau of Roads. I felt that there was a duplication of work. I recall that a witness, one of the departmental officers, at one of those estimates inquiries agreed that there was a certain amount of duplication of effort. I imagine this is one of the reasons why the Government has repealed the Act and has attempted to economise and to bring the elements of the Bureau of Transport Economics and the Bureau of Roads together in the Department. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  began his second reading speech by saying: 
As honourable senators know a new professional research body is being created which will be responsible for coordinated research and advice to the Government on all aspects of the transport sector. 
The question in my mind is whether the Department of Transport is working on the basis of advice to the Government through the Department, which is an entirely different concept to that laid down in the original Commonwealth Bureau of Roads Act by which the Bureau was set up to provide independent advice to the Minister. Local government authorities, State governments and bodies such as the Australian Bureau of Roads, the automobile associations and other bodies have appreciated that this advice has been given without the restraints and restrictions of departmental authority. That is one aspect of the Bill that worries me. I believe it will in time perhaps prove to be an inhibiting factor in relation to providing advice to local government bodies and others who have an interest in transport generally. However, I am prepared to support the Bill. I will be anxious to observe the economies which are effected. I shall certainly be available to local government authorities and State departments of transport. 
-The council at Murray Bridge has shown some interest in the matter. I am quite certain that we will see certain economies effected. I think this is important at this grave time which we are facing, when we have to effect economies in the public sector. Certainly, I shall be observing the situation with great interest in 12 months time to see what has transpired in the interim. I turn to the second reading speech of the Minister for Education. I notice that in referring to the present Bureau of Transport Economics the Minister stated: 
The present BTE is not established by legislation but is attached to the Department of Transport As I have already said no one has ever questioned the integrity or the independence of the BTE. It has always operated with the same degree of autonomy that the Bureau of Roads has enjoyed. 
The Minister then goes on to pay tributes. I make a point about that part of the speech to which I have just referred. I express the doubt that the same degree of independence is possible because the Bureau of Roads has never been rigidly controlled by legislation. This has proved to be an advantage when providing independent advice to the authorities to which I referred earlier. As far as I am concerned the matter will be under close observation by many people who are interested in road transport generally in Australia. I hope the Minister will acknowledge that if there is any difficulty associated with the advice which is being provided to local government, State governments and other people interested in transport, the Commonwealth Government will be prepared to have another look at the matter in 12 months time. I join the Minister in paying a tribute to the services rendered by  Mr Loxton  who has been  chairman  of the Bureau since its inception and who continued past the date of his retirement. I also pay a tribute to  Mr Ron  Mccormack who has been the secretary of the Bureau of Roads. I have found the staff of the Bureau always willing to advise anybody. I have certainly asked their advice on aspects associated with transport matters in South Australia. I appreciated the efforts which the staff put into the preparation of the report on the Stuart Highway. Earlier in my parliamentary career I was grateful for its help with the Eyre Highway in which I was interested and which is now sealed right across South Australia and into Western Australia. I look forward to seeing the evidence of the advice which the Bureau has given to the Government in relation to the construction of the Stuart Highway which, at the present time, is in a disgraceful condition. That condition has been allowed to persist for too long when we consider its strategic importance in relation to the development of the area and also its significance with respect to the encouragement of tourism in South Australia and the Northern Territory. It provides access to mineral areas in South Australia. The  President  is well aware of the rich deposits of copper ore and uranium in the vicinity of Roxby Downs. There are large coal deposits in the vicinity of Lake Phillipson near Coober Pedy. I believe that in the future all these mineral deposits will be a very valuable asset to South Australia and will require not only the provision of an adequate railway line which is presently being constructed but also a road which will be very significant for the mutual development of South Australia and the Northern Territory. 
I pay a final tribute to the officers of the Bureau of Roads for the work which they have done and which has been of great significance and value to South Australia, particularly in relation to the Eyre Highway and the Stuart Highway. I regret in some ways that we have had to take action to wind down or wind up- whichever term one likes to use- the Bureau of Roads. 
-I think  Senator Mulvihill  is one of the sentimentalists of the Parliament. I am sure he has some regrets that the Bureau of Roads will no longer be in existence. I say to the Minister for Education that I am sure that many honourable senators on this side of the chamber will be following the progress of the new arrangement with great interest. I hope that if there prove to be some disadvantages in the step we have taken, the Government will review the matter in due course. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. I refer to a reported statement attributed to the National President of the Ex-Services Action Association in the  Sunday Mail  of I May relating to the alleged misleading statement by the Minister regarding legal representation for ex-servicemen before the Administrative Appeals Tribunal which, according to a Press release, will be in force by the end of this year. Is it a fact that in evidence before the Toose Committee inquiry many ex-service organisations supported the view that ex-servicemen should be entitled to legal representation, particularly as the  President  of the new Tribunal will be a member of the judiciary? In the light of advice of these organisations, is it the Government's intention to proceed with the reported decision to allow legal representation only at the discretion of the judge who happens to be the  President  of the Tribunal? Is the Minister aware of the Canadian system based on legal representation for ex-servicemen which is quoted at page 251 of the Toose report and which has operated to the satisfaction of war veterans and the Government of that country over a considerable period? 
I do not intend to take up the time of the Senate for very long, but I do want to mention a matter that has been referred to me. I have to take this opportunity to speak on this matter before the holding of the referendum on 2 1 May because it refers to a request by Carl Linger Memorial Committee of Adelaide concerning the referendum. You will realise,  Mr President,  that a letter has been received from  Mr Wallace,  the  Chairman  of this Memorial Committee. The following in an excerpt from that letter: 
Referring to the letter I forwarded to the Prime Minister of 2nd March, 1977,I have enclosed a photo copy of a reply received from the Department of Administrative Services dated 18 March, 1977. 
I notice that the Secretary of the Department of Administrative Services said in his letter: 
Every effort will be made to ensure that any pre-poll publicity will give equal emphasis to each of the four tunes. 
He was referring to the 4 tunes that are to be considered on 2 1 May. In his letter  Mr Wallace  also said: 
I consider that this reply does not answer the questions I raised in my letter as nothing has been said about producing a new recording of the  Song of Australia  and its use on television and radio stations.  Advance Australia Fair  still continues to be played as has been the case in the past but there does not appear to have been any mention of the playing of our song. 
I ask the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  whether he intends arranging for the playing of recordings of  Song of Australia  at intervals leading up to 2 1 May so as to give the people of Australia an opportunity to compare the various tunes upon which they will be asked to make a decision.  Mr Wallace  has also asked me to draw attention to the statement of the South Australian Governor's  Deputy, Mr Walter  Crocker, in which he announced recently that the Carl Linger Memorial Committee had received a letter from  Her  Majesty the Queen 's Private Secretary expressing the Queen's delight in accepting copies of  Song of Australia  published by clubs of Lions International in South Australia for the Carl Linger Memorial Committee.  Mr Crocker  said that  Song of Australia  was something that South Australia had given to the nation and was a part of Australia's history. He said that it was truly Australian in character and sentiment. I agree that with modern orchestration this song is truly Australian in character and sentiment. 
The  President  of the Senate,  Senator Laucke,  has expressed interest in the Carl Linger Memorial Committee over the years. He gave the occasional address this year at the ceremony to celebrate the memory of Carl Linger. On that occasion we both had pleasure in laying a wreath on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I raised this matter in the hope that the Minister will recognise the importance of giving people the opportunity to listen on the radio or television to  Song of Australia  in an up-dated, orchestrated fashion. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of the extremely poor reception experienced by listeners to Adelaide University radio station 5UV? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that this poor reception is caused reportedly by persistent and strong interference from an Australian Broadcasting Commission station in Western Australia? Is he aware that listeners from 20 metropolitan area suburbs have lodged consistent complaints over this interference? Will the Minister investigate these complaints with a view to allocating another frequency to radio station 5UV, as this seems to be the only way to correct the problem. 
-I present the final report and the transcript of evidence from the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment on its inquiry into the impact on the Australian environment of the current woodchip industry program. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave to move that the Senate take note of the report. 
I am not a crystal ball gazer, as  Senator Sibraa  seems to be. I will not pre-empt what the Budget may hold for us.  Senator Sibraa  seems to know more than I do about the Government's intentions in respect of education. I can assure him that the Government certainly appreciates the importance of allocating sufficient funds for education. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has given assurances that it is not his intention to reduce in that area to any extent. On the contrary, he has shown that his interest in education is such that there has been an increase in funds since this Government came to office. 
I was interested in  Senator Sibraa  's remarks about the Government's 'union bashing'. I reject completely that term. I believe that this Government recognised immediately it same to office that it was necessary to restore the credibility of the trade union movement in Australia to a level which it ought to hold in the community. I think the trade union movement in Australia had sunk to a very low ebb. One of the first things we did when we came to office was to introduce legislation requiring compulsory secret ballots for the election of union officials, because we believed that this would encourage trade unionists to take a greater interest in their union leadership and would ensure that more responsible leaders were brought into a position in which they could protect the interests of trade union members throughout Australia. I am afraid that officials in some unions seem to delight in militant action rather than in being prepared to undertake sensible negotiations, particularly at a time when Australia cannot afford the luxury of strikes which disrupt industry generally and which overflow into areas that affect innocent trade unionists. As far as I am concerned, the sooner we do what the people expect us to do- that is to continue our efforts to restore the credibility of the trade union movement- the better it will be for all Australians. 
I must say that I had some sympathy with the air traffic controllers because of their protracted negotiations with the Public Service Board. I think there is room for examination of the Public Service Board in an attempt to accelerate such negotiations. I have no hesitation in making that recommendation because the public was certainly not completely happy about the speed with which those negotiations were conducted. So I am not absolving the Public Service Board from some responsibility in that matter. It seems to me that the people of Australia are very anxious that the Government take action to protect their interests, particularly in areas of national concern. Those areas would be fairly easy to define. I would suggest that we could establish that energy is an area of national interest. The oil refineries throughout Australia seem to be plagued with wildcat strikes. In areas of national interest we ought to be looking at the introduction of compulsory secret ballots as a condition of a legal strike. Reverting to the air traffic controllers, I wonder whether it was a mistakeI thought it was at the time- to absorb into the Department of Transport the former Department of Civil Aviation. That in many ways was a retrograde step. The Government ought to be considering whether it would be advisable to establish a statutory authority to deal with civil aviation in Australia. I think that would be preferable to the present system. 
I want to mention one or two other matters. I refer to the Appropriation Bill, and particularly to the Attorney-General's Department. The Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  will remember that I asked a question of him some weeks ago concerning the possibility of introducing uniform firearms legislation throughout Australia. I asked the question because I was very concerned about the increase in crimes involving the use of firearms. It followed an incident in Adelaide in which 2 young policemen were shot. One was critically injured and I think he is still in the intensive care ward of the Adelaide Hospital. The other young policeman was also badly injured. The incident revived my interest in this subject. I had raised the matter when  Senator Murphy  was Attorney-General in the former Labor Government. I believe that police throughout Australia ought to be afforded the protection of laws that would prevent irresponsible people from possessing firearms or that would at least minimise the chances of irresponsible people being able to purchase firearms. 
I have been told about the situation in other countries. For example, in West Germany I think the law still requires that a person be given an oral or written examination designed to assess his capacity and to discover whether he is a fit person to own a firearm. A member of the Australian Clay Target Association has suggested to me that it might be a good idea to test people who wish to own firearms in the recognition of birds and animals in order to prevent the slaughter of some of our protected fauna. I would even go further and suggest that it might be a good idea to apply a psychological test as a further precaution before a person is permitted to buy a firearm. I say that quite seriously because it was drawn to my attention not long ago that a young lad of 16 years of age purchased a firearm and committed suicide about an hour later. These are very serious matters and I believe they ought to be given very serious thought by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott). 
I wrote to the Attorney-General in South Australia and also to the Police Commissioner in that State. The reply I received from  Mr Harold  Salisbury, Commissioner of Police in South Australia, stated: 
Thank you for your letter of 2 May 1977 letting me know of the question you raised in the Senate about the need for uniform fire-arm legislation. 
This same subject has come up for discussion at annual conferences of Commissioners of Police on a number of occasions over the years. However, nothing very concrete has so far emerged from these discussions. 
At a conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers responsible for police held in Sydney on 21 August 1970, a sub-committee was formed to draw up a draft Bill for consideration by the various States. I believe that this subcommittee was allowed to lapse because 'difficulty was experienced in settling in detail principles which might reasonably be expected to be acceptable to all States'. 
At the recent Commissioners Conference in April 1977, the question of uniformity was raised again. It was decided that the Conference Secretariat would summarise all the sentiments that were expressed and send the summary to all Commissioners who would then agree on a line to present at the next conference between State Police Ministers and Police Commissioners in the hope that some constructive argument and plan could be put forward to the Federal Government. 
From our point of view, we accept the need for uniform fire-arm laws throughout Australia, but we do not believe that this will ever be achieved through independent action by the various States without a model Bill from which to work. 
He concludes: 
We share your concern for the regulation of fire-arms in the community and support any action you take to bring about uniformity. 
I think that highlights the importance of my suggestion. I hope that the Attorney-General will renew his efforts in perhaps providing the State Ministers with model legislation for their consideration at the next conference of police ministers and commissioners. 
I mention one other matter. The Stuart Highway has been the subject of comment in South Australia and the Northern Territory over a number of years. It has been of particular concern to the member for the Northern Territory,  Mr Sam  Calder.  Senator Kilgariff  also since he came into the Senate has been very active in his representations. You,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  have also expressed interest in this subject. As a result of efforts that were made in South Australia not long ago a report was presented to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  containing certain conclusions with respect to the sealing of that highway. It is one of 2 national highways that have yet to be sealed. Of course it is of great significance to the development of both South Australia and the Northern Territory. The following was submitted to the Minister 
From the considerable amount of material studied by the sub-committee in respect of the Stuart Highway between Port Augusta and the South Australian-Northern Territory border, the sub-committee concluded that: 
The existing route of the National Highway is considerably longer than is necessary or desirable. 
Through traffic to the Northern Territory makes up the great bulk of its use. 
Then, in our conclusions, we suggest that Route 3 would have advantages because it traverses the alignment of the East- West Railway before veering north to run parallel to the new railway alignment from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. Of course, recently the Federal and State Transport Minister agreed that Route 3 is the route to be followed. Route 3 generally follows the corridor of the existing highway but with a more direct route which crosses the Trans-Australian Railway at Coondambo, bypasses Kingoonya by 20 kilometres, then crosses the existing highway at Gosses and at Hawks Nest Bore before joining Route 2 some 70 kilometres south-east of Coober Pedy. From there to the border Route 3 is identical with Route 2, with a total length of 755 kilometres between Wirrappa and the border. 
These various routes were the subject of a report made to the Government not many months ago. Kingoonya is a very small centre but it has quite a few familities which depend upon tourism. It is a small centre which services the surrounding station homesteads. Some concern has been expressed that Kingoonya will be bypassed by the current proposals which have been described as Route 3. My colleagues from the Northern Territory and South Australia who have been studing this matter carefully believe that, at a very small additional cost, Kingoonya ought to be included in the Route 3 proposals because, after all, the town provides facilities such as water. It has an hotel. In our view it would be most important that that town be included in the route. It would involve a diversion of only 20 kilometres. I think that the cost of that would be minimal in the context of the overall cost of the project. 
The recommendations go on to say that there is an expectation that the sealing of the Stuart Highway would immediately increase traffic volume by more than 70 per cent. We refer to the due consideration that has been given to the impact that a new highway may have upon Aborigines living in the vicinity. Private contractors tendering for construction work and sealing is most desirable. The original report presented to the Minister suggested that the planning and survey work on the highway would take from 1 8 months to 2 years. I do not think I would agree with that assessment. If private contractors were employed to do that work it could be carried out in stages. The survey work could be done and after a 6 months survey and planning period the road construction work could commence. The maximum co-operation and understanding between the State and Federal governments, which has characterised the negotiations so far, is commended and encouraged. The study carried out by the steering committee appointed to report to the Federal and State Transport Ministers on alternative routes is a very creditable effort and worthy of high commendation. 
The funds necessary to implement the conclusion that we arrived at- that is, that the planning and survey work should be commenced as soon as possible- we believe ought to be provided in the 1977-78 Budget. We believe that funds to enable the sealing of a 50- kilometre section of the highway between Port Augusta and Woomera should be provided in the 1977-78 Budget also. That work could be proceeded with immediately because the survey and planning work has been done. Our final 3 conclusions are these: That the Stuart Highway is essential to the success of tourism, defence, commerce and industry. We have had evidence which shows that the fact that the roads from Alice Springs to Brisbane have been sealed has cost those conducting business between South 
Australia and the Northern Territory approximately $70m to $80m a year. 
We believe that the development of viable enterprises connected with mining, secondary industry, tourism and finance are closely allied to a national highway of prescribed standards. It is certainly necessary that the Federal Government should be prepared to provide future access for people who could be disadvantaged as a result of the new route. I say that particularly in view of the fact that in the vicinity of Roxby Downs, which is not far from Woomera, there are quite considerable deposits of uranium and copper. I understand that there is some gold there as well. It seems to me that in the future it could well be that Woomera, far from disappearing as an establishment of considerable importance, could become another Kalgoorlie, that is, the northern mining centre of South Australia. It is very important that the Government recognises the development potential of minerals in that area and recognises that it might be necessary, in the interests of the development of South Australia and in the provision of further job opportunities and the other benefits that flow from that, it might be wise to set aside some finances for the future to provide access to areas such as Roxby Downs. 
That is all I wish to say at the present time. I request that the Ministers concerned recognise the important aspects to which I have alluded tonight. I ask  Senator Durack  in particular to take note again of my request to the AttorneyGeneral with respect to uniform firearms legislation. I ask  Senator Carrick  to convey to the Minister for Transport my thoughts concerning the Stuart Highway. 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that cricket in South Africa is at this stage the most integrated of all sports in that country? Is he aware also that currently moves are under way to establish a multi-racial cricket board by September of this year and that in South Africa whites play in black cricket clubs and vice versa? In view of that and in the light of the fact that South Africans who may be in the Packer team would not be representing South Africa but would be paid as individual professionals who would owe their position in the team to  Mr Packer,  would it not appear that the question asked by  Senator Georges  yesterday was directed against  Mr Packer  under the guise of an attack on South African cricketers? Is it not strange that  Senator Georges  did not object to the Centenary Test against England with Tony Greig as captain? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement concerning the operations of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment. 
-Does the Minister for Veterans' Affairs recall a question I asked on the subject of legal representation for ex-servicemen following a Press statement by  Mr Alex  Hunter of the Ex-Services Action Association indicating that a large number of ex-service organisations were anxious for legal representation for exservicmen appearing before repatriation appeal tribunals which under future arrangements contemplated by the Government are to be chaired by a judge? Has the Minister noted the April edition of the Returned Services League  National News Digest  which reports on a meeting by Justice Toose with the RSL National Executive in March? The  Digest  in referring to  Mr Justice  Toose states: 
Members of the Executive were impressed with his frank comments and the logic of the points he made. As a result of his talk to the Executive, the RSL will be looking again at the question of legal representation for appellants when they present their case to Tribunals. 
Is the Minister aware of that statement? Has the Minister received any further representation from the RSL on this subject? If not, is the Minister able to ascertain the current attitude of the RSL on this matter? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. The Minister will recall that I asked her to investigate a case where a child amputee in Adelaide was declared ineligible for a handicapped children's allowance although, according to a newspaper report, another child with an alleged identical amputation was receiving an allowance. Is it a fact that since that time many parents have been notified that their children no longer qualify for such an allowance? One such case, Trina Wilkie, was described in the Adelaide  Sunday Mail  a few days ago and I understand that her parents are appealing to the Department. Can the Minister say how many disallowances have occurred? What reasons can she give as to why the Department has decided to withdraw these benefits? 
Is the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Transport aware of the recent announcement of the South Australian Minister of Mines and Energy,  Mr Hudson,  that the Electricity Trust of South Australia proposes the construction of a third power station at Port Augusta, to utilise coal to be extracted as a result of further development of the Leigh Creek coal field? Is he also aware that  Mr Hudson  said that the siting of the power station would depend upon the freight rate offered by the Australian National Railways? Can the Minister say whether a favourable rate has been decided? If it has not, will the Minister ask his colleague to make an early decision to enable this important South Australian project to go ahead? 

 - Mr Chairman, you are aware of the interest that I have in the wine industry in South Australia and you are aware of what an important industry it is in that State. I have received representations from the wine industry with respect to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill, maintaining that in its present form the industry could be further disadvantaged. We have heard all about the controversial repeal of section 31a which imposed quite a few difficulties on the wine industry. The industry's main concern now comes from the provision that, for purposes of stock value indexation, the value of trading stock will be that adopted for income tax purposes or the cost price of the stock, whichever is the lesser. The much heralded section 31b, introduced for the purpose of easing the burden on the wine industry created by the calling up of deferred tax which resulted from the repeal of section 3 1a, brings to account for taxation purposes the difference between standard values and cost under section 31 over a period which has now been extended to 1 98 1 . Therefore under the proposed legislation stock indexation for wine makers will be based on values less than the section 3 1 values which apply to all other manufacturing industries, denying the wine industry the full benefit of the indexation which is allowed to other taxpayers and substantially increasing their tax liability in comparasion with other industries. This in effect means they will be paying of the order of 5216 per cent tax. 
The position is illustrated in an example which is based on the actual situation of a public company wine maker. In this instance the original difference between section 3 1 a and the cost value was $6,970,000. Four-tenths of this difference previously has been brought to account as deferred income totalling $2,788,000, leaving a balance of deferred income as at 1 July 1976 of $4, 1 82,000, of which one-sixth comes to account as income each year. I have a table which illustrates the predicament of this particular company and I seek leave to incorporate it in Hansard. 
-As a South Australian, of course, I am very pleased that eventually this agreement has been put forward. We are now debating a Bill relating to the transfer of the South Australian nonmetropolitan and Tasmanian railway systems to Australian National Railways. I think that it is about 12 months since the transfer of these railways took place but it has taken a long time to deal with the problems associated with working out the conditions of employment and so on. I thought that would be the case. I recall what happened when we debated the Bill introduced by the Labor Party when it was in government.  Senator Bishop  handled the Bill and I referred to the confusion that I thought would exist as a result of the agreement. I thought that it had been poorly drafted and that it left a few loopholes that would have to be overcome. 
Mention was made by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  of the number of trade unions in the Australian National Railways. I think he has a point because 24 or 26 unions are associated with the Australian National Railways. Contrary to what I thought a few years ago when I doubted whether we ought to be seeking amalgamation of unions, I think it would simplify matters if the number of unions was reduced to a certain extent. I have changed my views in that regard. I think that if that situation prevailed in future, negotiations would be far simpler. 
-Yes, that is right. As the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said earlier, the unions are still negotiating on matters associated with the amalgamation. I think this bears out the truth of what I have said. I regret some aspects of the amalgamation. I recall that in South Australia  Mr Virgo  accused the Federal Government of welching on the deal when he was referring to the Adelaide-Crystal Brook railways standardisation program. I thought that was unfair because the Federal Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  had seen fit to present  Mr Virgo  with the Joy report, the object of which was to point out various alternatives available to the Government compared with the original Maunsell plan for that particular standardisation program which would have cost the Federal Government $145m today. I remember that  Mr 
Virgo was kind enough to invite me and  Senator Bishop  to come over to Canberra with him to talk to  Mr Nixon  on that standardisation program. I believe that  Senator Bishop  and I demonstrated that we were anxious that this program should proceed at the earliest possible time for the benefit of South Australia. I recall that the Minister for Transport at that time,  Mr Nixon,  was well aware of the State Government problems associated with alternatives to standardisation. As I recall it- and it is some weeks ago now-  Mr Virgo  was asked to go back to his departmental officers and discuss matters of constructive substance that would assist the Federal Government in arriving at an economical solution to the question of constructing that line. I believe that the Minister from South Australia has subsequently had talks with  Mr Nixon  and I understand that there is an alternative standardisation program that could well be considered by the Federal Government and the State government which would save us approximately $70m. 
The whole bone of contention at that time, as I recall it, was associated with the matter of a central train control system. The State government believes this was inadequate and there may well be a need to spend more money to provide a central control system which would meet with the South Australian Government's approval.  Mr Nixon  was sympathetic on that point and suggested that the State Government ought to bear in mind that the economic state of the nation at present was such that we could not afford $145m and should keep that in mind when the submission was being prepared. I understand from what the Minister has said in his second reading speech that the State governments of Tasmania and South Australia have had regard to this aspect. 
I am disappointed that we have not been able to make a decision in respect of the Crystal Brook-Adelaide line. I hope that the Minister will be able to give me more information as to what consideration has been given to the alternative standardisation program for the Crystal Brook-Adelaide section. I notice that  Senator McLaren  paid some attention to the role that railways have played in the development of country areas. I agree with him that in the early days that was certainly true and had it not been for the railway systems of Australia some country areas would have been disadvantaged. We have to examine very carefully the attitude to railways in Australia. We have already heard from  Senator Archer  who said that the railway systems were the worst in the world. That may well be right but I will put in a plug for the Australian National Railways because I have fairly close knowledge of that system. In my view the Indian-Pacific railway system could hold its head very high in the sphere of world railway achievements. So I do not say that Australia's railways are completely the underdog, although I gather from what  Senator Archer  said that he was referring to a conglomeration of railway systems that have grown since Australia was founded. 
I remind  Senator McLaren  that the nonmetropolitan railway system in South Australia has been running at a loss of about $37.5m a year. This agreement that we have is really fairly inflexible because it does provide- and I am not objecting to this completely- that the Federal Minister cannot make a decision in respect of the closure of an uneconomic line without the approval of the State Minister. I suggest that we have to look very carefully at some country railway lines that are not being used. I suppose there is a certain aura of pride on a country town's having its railway station, stationmaster and so on but I think we have to look at the lines that are only transporting a few parcels to the major centres, perhaps four or five passengers and one or two farmers who might choose to use that form of transport to carry their produce rather than use their own vehicles. In a lot of areas in South Australia we find when we get up at a meeting and ask farmers how many of them are using the railway line very rarely do we see a hand put up because most farmers are using their own methods of transport. 
-I think that is right. After all, the taxpayers are entitled to the protection of responsible government in respect of this matter. I support the railway system as much as  Senator McLaren  but I also believe that we have a responsibility to protect the taxpayers' money. In my view that is one area in which the spirit of cooperation and the sympathy that has existed between the 2 governments so far should continue. I support the Bill and I thank you,  Mr Chairman,  for giving me the opportunity to say a few words at the Committee stage. 

 -Mr President, I direct my question to you. It concerns the procedures with respect to broadcasting parliamentary proceedings outside of normal sitting times. You will recall that it is usual for the Senate proceedings to be broadcast on Fridays. In the present circumstances is it not fair to suggest that, as the House of Representatives proceedings were broadcast on Monday, that House should not have its proceedings broadcast on Tuesday also, that is, on 2 successive days? If you agree that that is a reasonable suggestion will you take the appropriate action and place the matter before the Joint Statutory Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the reported statement by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that the Government will spend proportionately more on telecommunications in rural areas and that private funds could speed up the program of providing television to isolated areas. Can the Minister give further details on this statement? Can he say whether a high priority will be given to Streaky Bay and other areas on Eyre Peninsula which have no television service at present. Will he also indicate whether the term 'private funds' in relation to the provision of television services includes the authorising of loans to local government authorities for this purpose? 
The Bills which are before us at the present time- the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill and the National Labour Consultative Council Bill- are, in effect, the second step with respect to the Government's dealing with industrial relations in Australia. The first step, of course, was taken some 12 months ago and that was the introduction of legislation which involved compulsory secret ballots for the election of union officials, the object being to encourage trade unionists throughout Australia to take a more active interest in ensuring responsible leadership, to the mutual benefit of the trade union concerned and the individual trade unionist. We hope that in time this will provide Australia's trade union movement with leaders who are not so anxious to take strike action but would rather provide opportunities for sensible negotiation in order that the trade unionists can be guaranteed a fair day's work for a fair day's pay and also that the conditions under which they work are in keeping with modern times. 
I was interested in the gallup poll to which  Senator Scott  referred, which was published in the  Bulletin  of 21 May. It indicated quite clearly the public view with respect to the trade union situation in Australia. As  Senator Scott  said, the survey found that only 1 8 per cent of the people questioned thought trade unionism should be compulsory and 78 per cent believed it should be voluntary. Fifty-one per cent of unionists believed some unionists should be able to continue work if their unions go on strike and 56 per cent of those interviewed believed a union should be deregistered when it would not agree with the decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Seventy per cent said the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission should be able to fine unionists. Fifty-two believed the Commission should be able to fine officials, but only 38 per cent thought the Commission should have the power to gaol officials who refused to pay fines. I was interested also to note that the vote in favour of voluntary union membership was strongest in South Australia, where 83 per cent were in favour compared with the average of about 78 per cent. 
-The ordinary public. But it indicates that the ordinary public has some interest in the legislation with which we are dealing. 
Yes, I know trade unionists have an interest, too. My word, trade unionists have demonstrated that in this gallup poll. 
Would you like to hear about that? 
If the honourable senator were to read the results of the poll he would realise that responsible trade unionists believe that something has to be done if the union movement in Australia is going to be restored to its proper place in the eyes of the general public. 
The honourable senator should read the gallup poll results. He will find them quite interesting. About the time of the Medibank strike, which is now history, I wrote to the Minister of Labour in New Zealand following a suggestion made by former  Senator Lillico  who, we all appreciate, had a very active interest in these matters. I received a letter from  Mr Gordon,  the Minister of Labour, which stated, among other things: 
In 1971 the Seamen's Union Funds Act was passed. The Seamen's Union was deregistered in that year and this Act appointed the Public Trustee as Manager of the assets of the union until such time as a new union was registered. Prior to this piece of legislation the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act contained no restrictions on what a deregistered union could do with its funds. The provisions contained in the Seamen 's Union Funds Act have been incorporated into the Industrial Relations Act 1973 and now apply to all deregistered unions. 
He went on to describe other legislation that had been introduced in that country and mentioned also the following: 
The Industrial Relations Act also lists certain essential industries in which, within one month before striking, 14 days' notice in writing must be given of the intention to strike. Among the essential industries listed are 'the operation of any service for the carriage of passengers or goods by water between the North Island and the South Island '. 
He enclosed also for my information an outline of the National Party policy on industrial relations, as well as some pieces of legislation, about which he stated: 
In essence this provides that if the Minister of Labour is satisfied that any discontinuance of employment brought about wholly or partly by any union of employers or of workers has caused, or is likely to cause, serious loss or inconvenience then he may cancel the registration of the union or any specified class of members of the union. The effect of deregistration is to: 
exclude the persons in question from the membership rule of the relevant union (ti) exclude the persons in question from the protection of the relevant award or collective agreement (iti) prevent the persons in question from joining a union until the Minister consents otherwise and 
vest the assets of the deregistered union in the Public Trustee until a new union is registered in its place or until 6 months (or a further period which the Minister may direct) from the date of deregistration of the union in which case the assets are divided among the former members. 
I believe that the New Zealand legislation could well have formed the basis of consideration by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I took the liberty of forwarding copies of this legislation to him for his information. I realise that New Zealand is, of course, different from Australia. We have Federal jurisdiction over, I believe, some 54 per cent of trade unions; but the New Zealand legislation, in my view, formed the basis of some good suggestions. 
I particularly liked the idea of having what amounts to a cooling-ofT period before strike action can be taken in areas of national interest. I notice that  Mr McMahon,  in an article in the Sydney  Sun,  paid some regard to the fact that too many strikes are being caused by small groups, particularly in the metal, transport, power supply and communications industries. 
They are all very important industries to Australia. If any of these industries suffer too much disruption, then the inconvenience and harm caused to the Australian workers is irreparable. I believe that there is room for further consideration by the Government of declaring areas of national interest so that similar action could be contemplated by the Government to ensure that an appropriate cooling-off period is applied to give a little more time for proper and sensible negotiations to take place. I have had quite a lot to do with the trade union movement in my time, particularly when I lived at Port Augusta. I realise that many people in the trade union movement- I believe the majority of trade unionists - 
I know that  Senator Wheeldon  is very sensitive about life insurance because he suffered a grave defeat by the Opposition in the days when his Government was in office. It appears to be a running sore with him. 
I appreciate  Senator Wheeldon  's help. I should like to continue my remarks in the interests of expediency and refer to the time when I was in Port Augusta. I had quite a few good friends in the union movement there. I recall that soon after  Mr Hawke  was elevated to the position of  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions he came out and said that direct action would be his policy. I notice that he has moderated his views considerably since then. One of my friends, who happened to be a vice-president of one of the metal unions at Port Augusta, told me that he was delighted because that very week he had been conceded the sixth point in a log of claims that was lodged some 2 1 months previously. 
Yes. After about two or three hours of consultation with the employers in that town, the union managed to get four of its points in its log of claims granted. With patient negotiation and with a little give and take on both sides, the fifth point at issue was granted in the union's favour after about 6 months. The other point, which involved serious policy changes, dealt with the matter of the payment of a  litt  per cent loading on employees' holiday pay and took considerably longer. This gentleman told me that he would much rather patiently negotiate with management than subject his union members to strike action which would only cause unnecessary hardship to the people he was representing responsibly. 
The Bills which we are examining today and which we will pass in due course do not quite satisfy me. I agree with  Senator Wright  when he said that the original Bill certainly was far meatier; that we have stripped off a lot of the meat and now we have a very skinny piece of legislation. J note that the Government has agreed that until there is further consideration of this Act we should proceed on the course that we have adopted. I support the Bills and sincerely trust that the Government will pay some regard to the suggestions that 1 have made, based on legislation which exists in New Zealand. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Has the Minister given further consideration to the proposal I presented from the Port Augusta City Council with respect to an aged homes project involving a tripartite financing approach for the provision of accommodation for the aged? Does the Minister recall that this proposal, if appropriate amendments to the legislation were made, would enable accommodation for about 50 people to be provided at a cost to the Commonwealth of $120,000 whereas, under the existing provisions of the Act, it would cost the Commonwealth $750,000? Has the Minister given further consideration to my request for changes to be made to this Act to enable such projects to be funded? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education and refer to the recent collapse of AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd. 
As this has caused serious financial hardship for many students who availed themselves of this facility, will the Minister say what steps can be taken to protect their interests? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
1 ) Did the Minister state that the Government will spend proportionally more on telecommunications in rural areas and that .--....... funds' could accelerate the program to bring television to isolated areas; if so, can the Minister elaborate further on that statement. 
Will a high priority be given to providing television services to Streaky Bay and other areas on the Eyre Peninsula. 
Does the term 'private funds', in relation to the provision of such television services in isolated areas, include the authorising of loans to local government authorities. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the Dow chemical company proposal to establish a petro-chemical works at Redcliff in South Australia. Is it a fact that the Dow company is prepared to go ahead with the project provided that a $245m loan can be arranged with South Australia for the infrastructure associated with the plant? Is the Minister able to say whether the South Australian Government has made an approach to the Federal Government for loan funds for this purpose? As the project would provide job opportunities for more than 3000 people during the 4-year construction period and would provide a stable operating work force of more than 700 when the plant was established, can the Minister say whether a decision has been made on this important matter? If not, when will the Government be in a position to consider it? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the possible introduction of foot and mouth and other exotic diseases due to unscheduled landings along the Australian coastline of vessels from places such as Indonesia, is the Minister satisfied that adequate coastal surveillance is being carried out to prevent risks to primary industry from this source? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the industrial plight of South Australia under the Dunstan Government and to the failure of that Government to recognise the importance of constructing a road to assist in developing the potential of the northern part of the State beyond Port Augusta. Is the Minister aware that the State Minister,  Mr Virgo,  has not included the Stuart Highway in the.program for national roads in South Australia? Is the Minister also aware that this road has claimed many lives, due to its poor conditions, and that within the last two weeks seven deaths have occurred? As this road is the only remaining national highway to be constructed in South Australia and would make a major contribution to the development of the north as well as a restoration of business and tourism between South Australia and the Northern Territory, does the Federal Government believe that this highway should be given a high priority? 
I support the Budget that has been presented by the Government. I believe it represents responsibility in economic management and that in the long term it will re-create incentive in the community and will advance Australia a long way along the path to reducing inflation. Already the Government has a reasonable record in that regard. People may realise that there is to be an election in South Australia. I was amused when the Premier of South Australia decided to make the main election issue the matter of unemployment. Although I say I was amused, I realise it is a very serious problem. Going back in history, I believe that the State Labor Government in South Australia does not have a very good record with respect to creating job opportunities and developing that State. 
I listened with great interest to  Senator Young  earlier in the debate when he referred to the Redcliff petrochemical works which has been in prospect for South Australia for a number of years. I thought  Senator Young  set out very clearly the economic benefits of such a project not only to South Australia but also to Australia as a whole. This reminded me of the time when I first entered Parliament in December 1966. I started agitating for the provision of a pipeline from Gidgealpa along the west side of the Flinders Range to serve the area of Port Augusta, Port Pirie and Whyalla with the ultimate objective of establishing a Redcliff petrochemical industry. That was 11 years ago. I recall also that at that time the  Hon.  Lin Riches, who unfortunately is now deceased, was a strong advocate for that proposition. Together with  Mr Hall  as he then was,  Senator Hall  now, who was leader of the Liberal Opposition in that State, we did our best to persuade the then Labor Government to spend an additional Sl.Sm to provide natural gas to the Spencer Gulf area. Had that been carried out at that time we would have had a nourishing industry and many subsidiary industries in that area providing many jobs for the people in the north. 
-I believe that had that action been taken the Redcliffe project would have been a going concern. I remember that I asked my first question on 23 February 1967. I asked the then Treasurer whether the Federal Government was to provide some funds for the construction of that pipeline. The Liberal Government at that time provided through Loan Council funds to the tune of something like $20m. In the 1973 election campaign  Mr Dunstan  boldly and loudly promised that he would build a petrochemical works at Redcliff at a cost of $300m. That is the truth of the matter, but unfortunately that promise, like many of his promises, was not to be seen in evidence in South Australia. At that time the cost of a pipeline to Redcliff  from  Gidgealpa would have been $32m. Today a 12-inch pipeline would cost $5 7m.  Senator Young  pointed out that for that project to go ahead now the requirement is for a loan amounting to $247m to enable the infrastructure to be provided to service a petrochemical industry at that site. It is a loan, and I emphasise that. I suggest that the Federal Government ought to do all it can to provide that loan to the South Australian Government through the Loan Council because this will be at no cost to the taxpayer. The South Australian Government will be indirectly paid back this amount by the Dow Chemical Co. once the industry is established. It will pay by way of electricity charges, rental for houses and water charges. Therefore in time this loan will be repaid. 
I note that the ICI company is interested in expanding its factory and facilities at Botany Bay. Of course this must be considered by government, but I remind the Government that although this is a possibility we must look at the consequences of such an expansion of those facilities. For a start, no salt is available. Therefore very little caustic soda would be available from that expansion proposition. The environmental consequences would be quite serious because the technology that is used in that factory is the mercury cell technology which creates tremendous environmental problems. However, Redcliff will produce between 500,000 and 600,000 tons of caustic soda by 1982. We must look at the advantages in that respect because by that time Australia will have to import no less than 800,000 tons of caustic soda. So the economics of that proposition are clear. 
The petrochemical works at Redcliff would be using the diaphragm cell technology which has no environmental problems. At the ICI installation there would be tremendous wastage of ethane. As  Senator Young  pointed out quite clearly, that would not be evident at Redcliff. Apart from that the Redcliff establishment would be able to provide all the Australian ethaline product requirements from 47 per cent of its output which means that 53 per cent could be used to benefit our export trade. I make these few points in support of what  Senator Young  has already said and to urge the Government to give favourable consideration to provision of a loan through the Australian Loan Council for the infrastructure requirement.  Mr Dunstan,  the person who promised this industry in 1973 and broke his promise, is now campaigning on an unemployment issue. The Redcliff industry would provide 3,300 jobs for the 4-year construction period and 710 jobs permanently once the works were functioning. This would support an additional population of 4,000. In one hit we could have 3,300 jobs over a 4-year period. 
I have some interest in Whyalla too.  Senator Bishop  has hit on a very good point. I am glad that he introduced the subject. The 3,300 jobs at Port Augusta would be a very great interest to the unemployed people at Whyalla. I am glad the honourable senator made the point about Whyalla. I am glad that he supports what I am saying about the need for development of the northern part of South Australia. This of course has not been at all evident with his Labor Party colleagues in South Australia. They have ignored the urgent requirement to provide a sealed road from Port Augusta to the Northern Territory. They have ignored the fact that $80m worth of business has been lost from South Australia to Queensland because there is a sealed road from the Northern Territory to Brisbane. These matters do not seem to be of any great consequence to the State Labor Government. 
-This particular project, the Stuart Highway, in which  Senator Bishop  should have some interest- he should be supporting the concept of having the project completed as soon as possible- would provide 273 jobs for a construction period of 5 years. 
My Government has done quite a lot in respect of national development in this area. Let me remind the honourable senator opposite of another project or two that could be developed in the northern part of South Australia. 
I would like to continue the development of my theme of unemployment in South Australia. There could be 3,300 jobs at Redcliff. The project was promised by  Mr Dunstan  in 1 973. It was frustrated by the Federal Labor Government at the time which said it would go ahead with it because it wanted another company to be involved; otherwise, perhaps the project may have been under construction at present. Another suggestion I make is that  Mr Dunstan  has showed no interest in developing the minerals in the northern part of South Australia. He was giving a lead to the rest of Australia with respect to a uranium enrichment plant only about 18 months ago. He was one of the great advocates for the establishment of that industry in South Australia. 

 - Senator Messner asks what is happening now.  Mr Dunstan  has had to bow down to the pressures of the Left wing of the Labor Party.  Mr Dunstan  is not too happy about it either. He has a committee still operating in South Australia examining nuclear energy in that State and examining still the possibility of attracting a uranium enrichment plant to South Australia. These poor fellows do not know which way they are going. They do not know whether the Government will change its policies. I think that perhaps they hope there will be a change in government so that there will be some hope for development of the northern part of South Australia. I mention two projects that may well be - 

 - Senator Bishop is supporting me continually for what I am advocating is the establishment of job opportunities in South Australia which have been ignored by the State Labor Government. I would like to tell a little story about a mining company that has, in the vicinity of Lake Frome- dare I say it- a uranium lease. The person concerned put forward a proposition to me that this deposit could be mined by a very acceptable environmental technique of leaching the ore body. In this way a solution of ammonium carbonate and hydrogen peroxide is injected into the ore body. 
I am sorry to get technical,  Senator Bishop.  I will give you a simple explanation, if you care to see me later. The technique is most acceptable to the environmentalists. There is no disturbance of the soil apart from the injection of a pipe. 
Again this would provide more jobs for the people at Whyalla. Let me proceed. This technique leaches the uranium out of the ore body leaving the undesirable elements underground. The technique also eliminates the question of radon which everyone seems to be concerned about. The slurry is then ready for enrichment if wanted. The significant point is that 1,000 jobs would result directly and indirectly from this project. Some 22,000 tons- or 'tonnes' I think the correct term is- of uranium represent about $ I billion - 
The Opposition does not like us to talk about economics when we mention mining. 
Moreover- and this ought to be of some interest to the people at Whyallasome $ 100m worth of plant would be required to be prefabricated. That could be done at Whyalla. How many jobs would that represent? 
How many jobs would result if we installed a uranium enrichment plant in South Australia? Millions of centrifuges would be required. This again would give an opportunity of jobs for the people at Whyalla. I believe those matters ought to be given serious consideration by the State Government in South Australia. 
-That is perfectly right; the cheapest steel is made at Whyalla. Therefore the economics and the job opportunities in my view are tremendous. Let us look also at Roxby Downs which of course has the potential of becoming another Mount Isa. It would support a town population of 30,000 people.  Mr Virgo  says No, we do not want to develop that. We do not need a road up to the Northern Territory. We do not need to worry about the jobs that would be created. We do not want to worry about that'. 

 - Mr Virgo is the man who does not worry about it. He does not want to build a road. Honestly it amazes me that  Mr Dunstan  has the confounded impertinence to campaign on the unemployment issue when he has done nothing about it in South Australia himself. 
That is right. Another matter I raise is my concern at the lack of oil and gas exploration on the Australian continent. Recently, in company with other colleagues, I visited the Cooper Basin. I learned that only about 100 exploratory drill holes had been put down. In the Pedirka Basin to the north a mere five exploratory drill holes have been put down. This area is approximately the size of France. I was most concerned to learn that two oil rigs had been taken from South Australia. They had remained idle since 1972, due to the former Labor administration in Canberra. These rigs had to be removed to Houston, Texas, so that they could be employed at full capacity. About 2,027 oil rigs are working continuously on the North American continent. The removal of the two rigs disturbed me because it left only one oil rig working in South Australia. That rig has drilled only three exploratory holes since 1 974. All of them were productive. For the rest of the time it has been drilling developmental holes. 
It occurred to me that although the Government recognised in this Budget the need to stimulate this area of our economy more should be done to encourage drilling rigs to operate continuously. Those two rigs leaving the shores of Australia probably cost the Government about $1.7m, because the jobs that were lost as a result of those rigs being taken away must be considered. We are missing out on income tax, we are missing out on company tax and we probably will have to pay unemployment benefit to those who may be out of work as a result. I think that is a very serious matter, particularly when we are crying out for further development of our oil supplies. So I request the Government to give that matter more serious consideration. I have taken the trouble to send a deputation to the Minister for National Resources,  Mr Anthony.  I hope he will regard that matter as a very serious one. I hope he regards my suggestions as constructive. I believe they are quite workable. I hope the Minister for Science,  Senator Webster,  will support my concern in this matter and give impetus to my suggestions to his senior colleague. 
The Senate will know that one of the responsibilities of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment is to exert a continuing oversight of the problems of pollution in Australia. On 3 June last year, on behalf of the Committee I presented a review of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution. Honourable senators will be reminded that the Select Committee on Air Pollution made some very significant comments. I know that the  President  was interested in that Committee and I believe that  Senator Georges  also was a member of it. It provided a lot of useful information and suggestions to the government of the day. I remind the Senate that that Committee concluded: 
That an air pollution problem exists in Australia today, and that the potential dangers will be far greater and more costly to remedy unless urgent co-ordinated action is taken immediately. 
That the Commonwealth should enact clean air legislation for its Territories. 
That a more uniform approach to the problem by the States and the Commonwealth is essential. 
That the Commonwealth Government should take an active interest in air pollution matters by- 
acting as a co-ordinator of State and Commonwealth Government activity. 
undertaking basic research in air pollution in Australia, and making grants to the appropriate institutions and authorities for air pollution research and personnel training. 
making available increased tax relief to industry and others involved in expenditure on air pollution control equipment and its maintenance. 
That action must be taken to abate and control motor vehicle emissions, and that while these emissions have been partially controlled, no complete solution to the problem is yet available. 
That, without prejudice to the inquiries or findings of other Parliamentary Committees which have yet to report to Parliament, consideration be given to the co-ordination of studies of the total environmental pollution problem- that is air pollution, water pollution, soil pollution and noise pollution. 

 Senator Mulvihill, who is  Deputy Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, will be interested in the question of noise pollution. I believe that noise is a very important source of pollution that our Committee could well take up in the future. The Committee, in keeping with its responsibility to exert this continuing oversight of air pollution, has considered the recommendations in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution that was presented in 1969. Recommendation No. 1 urges that the Commonwealth enact immediately legislation for the control of air pollution within its territories. Development to date is that an ordinance to control emissions from stationary sources in the Australian Capital Territory has been drafted and presented to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly for comment. I understand that some amendments may flow from its consideration and that, ultimately, we will be presented with a Bill in the Parliament dealing with this important question. The ordinance resulted from recommendations made by a sub-committee of an interdepartmental committee established to examine ways of protecting the quality of the environment in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Recommendation No. 2 suggested that a Commonwealth-State conference be called by the Commonwealth to discuss the establishment of a Commonwealth-State bureau of air pollution to co-ordinate research into and establishment of standards to be applied to air pollution. No such bureau has been established since the time of the Select Committee's report. Steps have been taken to give effect to the spirit of this recommendation. For example, annual conferences of the relevant air pollution offices of the Commonwealth, the States and New Zealand are held to discuss problems faced individually and in common by air pollution control authorities. Two Commonwealth bodies have been established which also assist in implementing the spirit of this recommendation. The first is the Air Pollution Control Sub-Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council established in 1971 for the purpose of recommending standards to be applied by Australian air pollution control authorities. In November 1972 the Sub-Committee proposed a comprehensive set of standards for emissions. The second, the Australian Environment Council, was established in 1971 with the aim of promoting common standards on environmental matters throughout Australia. The Council is composed of the environment Ministers from the Commonwealth and the States. It conducts activities through working groups of Commonwealth and State representatives. One of the current responsibilities of the Council is the National Air Monitoring Program, which is discussed later in the Committee's report. 
Recommendation No. 3 states that a division to study air pollution should be established in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. No such division has yet been established in the CSIRO for the sole purpose of studying air pollution problems. Existing divisions of the CSIRO, such as the Division of Atmospheric Physics or the Division of Environmental Mechanics, are active in the study of the influence of air pollution. Recommendation No. 4 recommends that the Bureau of Meteorology be charged with establishing air pollution monitoring stations with the eventual aim of establishing an air pollution hazard prediction service. No such network has been established by the Bureau itself. The Commonwealth Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, on behalf of the Australian Environment Council, instituted a national air monitoring program early in 1976 to develop a uniform air pollution monitoring program in Australia. The program has as its aims the introduction of Commonwealth legislation aimed at assisting the States financially in the monitoring of air pollution, as the States Grants (Water Resources Measurement) Acts have operated to assist the States to monitor water pollution. 
It also recommends the setting up of a data centre in Canberra which will store information collected by the program and the introduction to Australia of a standard code identifying levels of air pollution. This code will be based on recognised international standards and will eventually facilitate recognition of hazards in areas subject to severe local pollution. The Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development purchased three mobile air pollution monitoring caravans. These caravans will be loaned initially to the States to study areas of air pollution. The results of this study will assist the States in planning the installation of permanent monitoring stations. The program also envisages the construction of what is known as a base line air monitoring station in a remote area of Tasmania. This monitoring station, together with 10 or 12 stations in other remote parts of the world, will enable measurement of air content and quality in those areas. The measurements so recorded will provide air samples from areas unpolluted by man. 
Recommendation No. 5 suggests that urgent consideration be given at both Commonwealth and State levels to ways and means of abating and controlling motor vehicle emissions. It is clear from extensive physical measurements and research carried out since 1969 that motor vehicle emissions, primarily of hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide and oxidants of lead, constitute the major sources of air pollution in Australia. The danger of serious air pollution from photochemical smog in Australia's, urban areas appears greater than was anticipated by the Select Committee. Due to concern at the increasing level of air pollution from motor vehicles, the Committee on Motor Vehicle Emissions was established within the Australian Transport Advisory Council. This body, ATAC, advises Commonwealth and State Ministers on uniform legislation governing vehicle safety. The committee on motor vehicle emissions in turn advises ATAC on the standards to be applied to motor vehicle emissions, a role closely concerned with the establishment and maintaining of air quality. Long term improvement in air quality should result from the introduction of these controls on emissions. Similar controls of emissions from diesel vehicles have also been introduced to Australia on the recommendation of the committee on motor vehicle emissions. Growing concern is being expressed at the high content of particulate emissions from motor vehicles. In particular, the hazard from particulate lead has caused the National Health and Medical Research Council and the Australian Environment Council to call for controls on the lead content of petrol. 
Recommendation No. 6 suggests that appropriate financial relief by way of taxation concessions be granted to industry and others investing in air pollution control equipment. No special concessional taxation deductions are allowed by the Income Tax Assessment Act for air pollution control equipment. The chapter headed 'Conclusions and Recommendations' outlines some, but not all, of the developments which have taken place in the control of air pollution in Australia since the time of the Select Committee's report. Much remains to be done with respect to emission abatement and control of all sources. The Committee still views the motor vehicle as a source of particular concern as their numbers continue to increase. There are two aggravating factors. Firstly, Australia is a highly urbanised nation where the use of the private motor car in everyday life is virtually universal. Secondly, the greater part of our population and secondary industry is concentrated in large urban areas in the south-east and south-west of the continent. The adoption of a co-ordinated Commonwealth-State approach to the setting and enforcement of stricter emission standards, as described in chapter two of the report, is welcomed. 
Further measures should be introduced without delay to reduce the number and concentration of air pollution sources. Such measures might include improved public transport systems with added incentive for their greater use, decentralisation of commercial and industrial activities with attendant planning controls to minimise local pollution, and improved urban traffic flow achieved through careful evaluation of improved secondary road systems and traffic control. The apparent effectiveness of measures already taken to control industrial sources of harmful emissions is encouraging. The development and introduction of an agreed national standard for the design of such systems is a matter for further consideration by Australian air pollution authorities. The Committee particularly notes the imminent establishment of a national air pollution data centre and recommends that the information collated by the centre be readily accessible to interested members of the public. 
I think that this highlights what the Committee believes to be a lack of concern. It is perhaps not a lack of concern, because  Senator Mulvihill  will recall that during the course of our woodchip inquiry we felt that there was a lack of interest in collating data on very significant matters concerned with that particular inquiry. This is another aspect of concern relating to air pollution that we believe needs further consideration and urgent action. The old maxim that an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure has particular force for air pollution problems. Close co-ordination by State bodies associated with urban development, environment planning and pollution control is also vital. A notable and encouraging move in this direction was the recent creation of the New South Wales Planning and Environmental Commission. 
A new air pollution problem has recently been recognised, namely, the possible threat from two sources to the ozone content of the upper atmosphere. The first source is the fluorocarbon propellant content of the common aerosol can. Some scientific opinion suggests that these substances may rise to the ozone layer of the upper atmosphere which shields the earth from excessive solar ultraviolet radiation. The fluorocarbons may then react chemically with the ozone thus weakening its crucial shielding effect. I noticed earlier this year that the State of Oregon in the United States of America has banned spray cans. 
I believe that this ought to be the subject of serious attention by the Federal Government. 
The second source is the exhaust emission of high flying supersonic aircraft. This problem is currently under expert study in the United States and Britain. It is the possible effect of continued fluorocarbon emission that generates most concern because if this continues over a number of years it can give serious long term problems to the world. The Committee is of the opinion that the severe potential threat posed to all life from depletion of the ozone layer necessitates continued research to determine the true magnitude of this hazard. The Committee feels that Australia should make a contribution to such international research. 
The foregoing discussion highlights some of the environmental effects that can accompany technological change. A multitude of new chemical substances is created each year for use in industry, agriculture and the home, with little thought or testing applied to any possible deleterious effects on the environment. Careful planning within the framework of a soundly based national policy for science should present a valuable safeguard. Further safeguards would be represented by increased and continuing Australian participation in international programs of research, monitoring and exchange of information. 
All States as well as the Commonwealth are demonstrating a much greater awareness than was the case in the 1960s. In the area of air pollution evidence is available of a planned and concerted drive by all governments in Australia to minimise pollution. Clean air laws are either in force or in the course of drafting in some form throughout the Commonwealth. Of the measures so far enacted the control of exhaust emission from motor vehicles is of major importance. The passing into law of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974-75 has helped greatly in providing a basis for formalising environmental assessment requirements into statutory power. Section 3 of this Act defines 'environment' to include 'all aspects of the surroundings of man, whether affecting him as an individual or in his social groupings'. 
The Standing Committee has received welcome comment upon its review of the 1 969 Select Committee's report. Such comments are very helpful to a standing committee as they are a means of informing its members. Several new developments in the monitoring and control of air pollution have been pointed out to the Committee, of which it was not aware. In a letter dated 14 September 1976 to the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution from the Victorian Environment Protection Authority the Acting Chairman stated: 
In reviewing this report it is apparent that the Committee cannot have been receiving the Authority's publications or keeping aware of developments in Victoria. 
The following comments are provided with a view to the Committee reconsidering its report and correcting any inaccuracy: 
Page 4, recommendation 6- The continuous measurement of air pollutants has already been initiated by the Victorian State authorities as the information is required on a daily basis for their operation. The desirable assistance that this State requires from the Commonwealth Bureau of Meteorology is in the area of micrometeorological studies, and to date we have been unable to obtain this assistance although a number of requests have been made to the Bureau. 
Page 6, 2.2- Development. The annual conference of air pollution control officers does not constitute a step taken by the Commonwealth to give effect to a recommendation of the Senate Select Committee in 1969. The Commonwealth is a guest at these conferences, which were initiated by New South Wales and Victoria in the early 1 960s. 
Pages 8, 2.4- Development. It is understood by the authority that the national air monitoring program is not on behalf of the Australian Environment Council as yet and the national air monitoring program has only been concerned with funding State programs to this stage. 
Page 9, (c)- The first paragraph is confusing and we are not aware of any work by the Australian Environment Council towards this end. In the second paragraph it is believed that two monitoring caravans, as from the draft itinerary of the national air monitoring program, will initially be lent to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation rather than the State authorities. 
I think that that is worthy of some comment but 1 believe that it is important to register and record the comments that have been brought forward by the Environment Protection Authority of Victoria. Its comments go on as follows: 
Page 10, 2.5- Development. In the reference to motor vehicle emission in paragraph 1 the word 'oxidants' should not be used. Oxidants are not emitted but are formed due to reactions in the atmosphere. The correct emission description is ' nitrogen oxides '. 
I do not want to start any argument on terminology, but I thought I should make that comment for the benefit of that Authority. 
I would like to mention several active bodies in air pollution control in addition to the Victorian Environmental Protection Authority. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation through its Process Technology Division is carrying out research into air pollution. I have examined the environmental impact statement for the third northern power station in South Australia to be built by the Electricity Trust of South Australia at the head of Spencer Gulf, south of the city of Port Augusta. A period of seven to eight years was required to choose the site, design and build another power station. The station is to be fuelled with Leigh Creek coal. Over 80 separate aspects of the effect of the establishment were examined by the State committee which comprised four private citizens, representative of community interests, conservation groups et cetera, and two senior officials from the Electricity Trust of South Australia. They were required to consider the inter-related social environmental, economic and technical aspects of the project. 
The matter of chimney emission was treated with special consideration. Their knowledge of past trouble at the northern power stations was of great assistance in their consideration. The State Government recently installed in the A station at the  Sir Thomas  Playford power station near Port Augusta a device for the electrostatic precipitation of the pollution that emanates from that chimney. I attended its commissioning on 20 May. It has made a remarkable difference to levels of pollution from that source. An examination of the potential threat to the environment by emissions from conventional power stations is rather interesting. Every one in Australia requires over a twelve-month period one kilowatt year of power in order to provide us with energy. This power can be provided by burning three tonnes of coal. This in itself means that no less than five tonnes of carbon dioxide and many kilograms of oxides of nitrogen and sulphur are being emitted into the environment. 
Carbon dioxide, although relatively innocent in its effect on the human body, has the effect of increasing the earth's temperature to a degree where over a protracted period it could mean, will mean and is meaning that the earth's temperature is increasing. A lot of scientific concern is being expressed about that type of pollution. In the long term, if the earth's temperature increases we could expect an ice slide of some sort and an increase in the water level. We may have to look around for a Noah's Ark or something similar in the future. People must bear that in mind. The oxides of sulphur and nitrogen go into the upper atmosphere and can have an additional effect on the ozone layer that is so important as an environmental shield to the earth. 
I believe that the Select Committee on Science and the Environment has had an opportunity to study the report of the Select Committee on Air Pollution. It has examined in detail what has happened since that report was presented. I have been encouraged by the fact that some governments- Commonwealth and State- have taken action in some areas that concerned the Committee. I believe that it is vital for Australia to plot the course that it is to take in the field of energy- that is, type, quantity, conservation and technology required. We must make a very careful assessment of the future impact on the environment. A lot has yet to be done. The Commonwealth Government has taken the action which I described earlier. I would like to see that action stepped up in the interests of the future protection of the air environment in Australia. It is so important to the future health of our community. 
I direct a question to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Is the Minister aware of the statement made today by  Mr Virgo,  the South Australian Minister of Local Government, to the effect that the Commonwealth Government adamantly refused to give special consideration to areas outside local government in that State? Is it a fact that the Premier of South Australia agreed to the original proposition put forward by the Commonwealth Grants Commission to the Premiers Conference late in 1976 that unincorporated areas would be excluded from the tax sharing arrangements? Is it also a fact that since the original agreement an opportunity has been provided for Tasmania to put forward complaints and that South Australia has had a similar opportunity to make a definite proposal as far as unincorporated areas of South Australia are concerned to qualify for grants under the local government personal tax sharing arrangements? Has the South Australian Government made representations to have any changes made to the original proposal? Are the charges made by  Mr Virgo  against the Commonwealth justified? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of the desperate shortage of cocaine at major hospitals in Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Penh? The stock of this drug is very low. I understand that Adelaide Hospital has attempted to procure this drug from other hospitals and has been unable to do so. Is the Minister also aware that some hospital authorities have expressed concern that cocaine apparently is still available in Australia through illicit sources? As this drug is used as a pain killer in the treatment of terminal cases of cancer and other painful complaints will the Minister ask her colleague in another place for a report on this subject and also seek his assurance that action will be taken as a matter of urgency to ensure that supplies of this drug are made available as soon as possible to the hospitals of Australia? 
-by leave-  Mr President,  as  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment,  I wish to make a statement on behalf of the Committee concerning the Committee's current inquiry into industrial research and development. I have noted with interest a story on the front page of the  Australian  newspaper of  6  September  1977  concerning a confidential' report to the Minister for Defence, the  Hon.  D. J. Killen, compiled by the  Chairman  of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd,  Sir Ian  McLennan, and a group of senior industrialists. According to the newspaper, the report is strongly critical of local capacity to meet military needs and it calls for the Government to set up research and development projects in Australia. It states: 
Australia is losing contracts worth millions of dollars every year to overseas countries simply because local firms cannot match their sophistication. 
This is one of the topics currently under investigation as part of the inquiry of the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment into industrial research and development. The Committee has already received a number of submissions touching upon the capability of Australian industry to support adequately military requirements and the consequent need for an increase in the number of Government research and development contracts let to industry. 
This topic will be among those to be considered at the Committee's first public hearings into this industrial research and development reference to be held in Sydney on  27  and  28  September. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Mulvihill)  adjourned. 
-As Chairman of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment I seek leave to make a statement on behalf of the Committee concerning the annual reports transmitted to the Committee for consideration over the past year. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. He will recall that last year I directed to him a question with respect to the future of AMDEL, the Australian Mineral Development Laboratories in South Australia, which since its inception, I think in the mid-1950s, has been supported jointly by the South Australian Government, the Commonwealth Government and private industry both financially and by the provision of work for that institution. The Minister indicated that some consideration was being given by the Commonwealth to this matter. Can he say whether the Cabinet has made a decision concerning Commonwealth funding for that establishment? If not, will he see that this matter is given urgent consideration? 
What  Senator Bishop  has said concerning a visit to Whyalla is perfectly true. Earlier this year all the senators from South Australia received an invitation from the Mayor of Whyalla to come to that city- in my case, once again because I have been there on numerous occasions. In fact I was there only two or three weeks prior to the meeting mentioned by  Senator Bishop.  The invitation was to discuss the shipbuilding industry in that city and the problems created for people who were forcibly retrenched from that particular part of the activities of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd in that city. I think that the straw to which the Whyalla council was clinging was the recommendation of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, to which  Senator Bishop  has referred. We on this side of the chamber from South Australia who attended that meeting agreed with the general comments around the room and the wish of the council that we make yet another attempt to persuade the Government to adopt the recommendation of that Committee. We happily supported that proposition. Perhaps I will refer to that a little later. 
The Australian shipbuilding industry has been a running sore to successive governments for a long time, because of the tremendous cost to the taxpayers of Australia who have subsidised it to a degree where it was able to be maintained. As 

 Senator Bishop said, the recommendation of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence suggested that because of their importance to the defence of Australia, the Newcastle works and the BHP works at Whyalla should be upgraded, which of course would cost an additional $ 100m for each shipyard, a total of $200m, quite apart from any thought at all of subsidy. 
On the matter of subsidy, the Labor Government was really responsible for starting the rot in the shipbuilding industry in Australia. In December 1973 the Whitlam Government introduced new assistance arrangements which meant that the subsidy for shipbuilding in Australia was to be reduced progressively. The present shipbuilding assistance arrangements were introduced by the Whitlam Government and provide for a 25 per cent bounty on vessels from 150 tons gross to 1,000 tons gross. On vessels exceeding 1,000 tons a sliding scale of bounty applies, with a current maximum of 33 per cent. The maximum rate will be phased down to 25 per cent by 1980. The present Government extended the Australian Labor Party policy of a 35 per cent subsidy on ships and is now adopting a similar policy with respect to the phasing down of that subsidy by 1980. It is interesting to read in  Hansard  the speech made by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on 25 August 1976. He referred to statements by  Mr Charles  Jones, the honourable member for Newcastle and Minister for Transport in 1973, and said: 
On 3 April 1973 the honourable member for Newcastle said: 
We are all concerned with the unnecessary stoppages in the shipbuilding industry. If the unions want the industry they have got to be pan of it and stop these unnecessary stoppages. 
. On 24 August he said: 
Government can only do so much to provide this country with a viable shipbuilding industry. 
. He went on again on 4 February 1974 and said: 
In the absence of real import competition, the industry has not had the necessary structure to follow the lead of overseas producers in seeking to improve efficiency through rationalisation and more specialised production. 
. On15 May he said: 
The industrial record of the Australian shipbuilding industry left much to be desired. 
On 3 October he said: 
There might not be any shipbuilding unions if past and present industrial disputes continued . . . Larrikinism by the unions had alienated some Labor MPs who had in the past supported Government assistance for the industry. They said if this is the way unions are going to go on what is the use of us putting in 20-odd million dollars in subsidies to maintain the industry. 
The subsidies that have been paid out to the industry in Australia are quite considerable. They amounted to $ 13.4m in 1971-72; $30.7min 1972- 73; $21m in 1973-74; $31.2m in 1974-75; $43m in 1975-76 and $27m in 1976-77. Dealing with what  Senator Bishop  said about the Australian Council of Trade Unions and assurances that there would be harmony in the industry and everything would be sweet, I would like to believe that and I would genuinely like to think that the honourable senator's representations in that regard will be successful, but the record is not very good. I can recall when  Senator Bishop,  I and others were trying to do something about resolving the problems of the shipbuilding industry at Whyalla. But at about that time the trade union movement at Whyalla was refusing to allow sea-going trials to be carried out on a ship that had been built for the New Zealand trade. As to the comments of  Mr Charles  Jones, in 1973- 74 a total of 13.75 days per employee were lost at the BHP works at Whyalla and 26.5 days per employee at the Newcastle State Dockyard, when the national average in the manufacturing sector at that time was 2.98 days per employee. Those figures make it very difficult for me to believe that the unions concerned will be fair dinkum about honouring that sort of undertaking. 
-I will refer to the letter later on. I know it is an impossible thing for the honourable senator to answer.  Senator Bishop  referred to the building of naval vessels at the BHP works in Whyalla, but he ought to realise that it it is not as simple as that. 
The honourable senator may have done that, but I would like to clear up the matter in my own mind and in the minds of those honourable senators who are anxiously listening to this debate and showing an interest in the industry to which we are referring. I suggest that we look at the report of the United Kingdom Shipbuilding Inquiry Committee in 1965-66, which is still applicable. At page 136, Chapter 24, paragraph 504, the report states: 
A naval vessel takes three times as long to build as a straightforward merchant ship. There is a considerable difference in composition of the labour force and the standard of workmanship required. The pace has to be slower than in merchant work because of differences in design, complexity and the need for modifications during building. The inspection and testing requirements are also different. We are not suggesting that these naval requirements are unnecessary. But for a yard whose object is to standardise and speed up the fabrication and assembly of merchant ships,  naval work must impose severe limitations on tempo and efficiency, which cannot in practice be circumvented by the use of network programs or other modern methods of production control. 
The report goes on to point out the technological differences between conventional domestic shipbuilding and the building of a fighting ship.  Senator Bishop  also mentioned a letter from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to the Premier of South Australia, and I have a copy of that letter.  Mr Dunstan  wrote to the Prime Minister on 15 June and referred to the recommendations on shipbuilding by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I will read in full the Prime Minister's reply because  Senator Bishop  chose not to do so. The letter states: 
My dear Premier, 
I am writing in reply to your letter of 15 June in which you requested that the recommendations on shipbuilding of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence be implemented and also in response to earlier correspondence between our Governments regarding shipbuilding. I can now inform you that the Commonwealth has decided to endorse the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission not the vary the rates of assistance for shipbuilding, as payable under the legislation introduced by the previous Commonwealth Government. 
That was the Whitlam Government - 
In coming to this position we have weighed most carefully the views put forward by your Government and the Government of New South Wales, and by other parties including in particular the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the union movement, and local government and other organisations and individuals in Newcastle and Whyalla. We have, as you know, been particularly conscious of the potential social implications for these two centres and with your agreement these were the subject of examination by a special Commonwealth/State Task Force. 
This is the paragraph that  Senator Bishop  quoted: 
We appreciate that the decision we have taken is likely to lead to the decline of large ship construction in Australia. Our evaluations have made it clear, however, that the cost to the community of the assistance needed to protect that industry's future in Australia would have been well beyond the level that could be justified on economic, social and defence grounds. 
As you will be aware, the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations is taking appropriate action to assist those affected to find alternative employment, and will continue its efforts in that direction. 1 must say that my experience with the executives of, and other people associated with, BHP has been that there has been a genuine attempt by the company in the city of Whyalla to find employment for people who have been retrenched from the shipbuilding industry so that they can be retrained and injected into the steel section of BHP which is the major economic strength of that company. Shipbuilding is not the major economic strength in that city. I was impressed by the fact that the company was giving these people the opportunity to move into the steel making section and was showing a preparedness to retrain them. This has been encouraged by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations.  Mr Street's  officers, together with  Senator Cotton's  officers, have visited the city from time to time and are co-operating. Moreover, the Government says that if these people do not wish to remain in Whyalla and work in the steel industry - 
-Just let me finish. I did not interrupt you,  Senator. I  listened to you very courteously and I thought that what you said - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order!  Senator Jessop,  I suggest that it would be better for you to address the Chair. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  Those people who wish to leave Whyalla can be given assistance through the Commonwealth Government to travel to other parts of Australia in order to obtain employment. I know that BHP in Whyalla has a considerable number of orders and is ready to go into production as soon as the construction industry starts to gain impetus. There are already signsquite favourable signs-in sections of the private sector that this will gradually happen. In fact it has been most encouraging to observe in some sections of industry the improved economic circumstances. The company is very anxious to retain an adequate work force so that at the time these steel orders have to be filled it will have a work force capable of producing the quantity of goods required. 
I want to refer to just a few points that the Fraser Government has pursued since it took office. I have referred to the decision by the Whitlam Government to phase down the shipbuilding subsidy. Our Government, in response to representations from shipbuilders, commenced in January 1976 a series of reviews of shipbuilding assistance arrangements. In January 1976 an interdepartmental committee was asked to review the assistance arrangements and to report on whether additional Government assistance should be given to the shipbuilding industry. In March 1976 a working party of officials was formed to investigate the whole range of issues associated with shipbuilding and ship repair. That is a point which I think ought to be considered. I do not think a report has been submitted on that aspect. It may be a way of providing work for our shipyards. That working arty of officials held discussions with ship.uilders, shipowners and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. In June 1976 Ministers held discussions with the ACTU. In August 1976 the Industries Assistance Commission was asked to report on whether any changes were necessary in shipbuilding assistance in order to sustain economic production in Australia. In the same month Ministers met the Premier of New South Wales to discuss the shipbuilding industry in that State and made the following offer To defer contracts for the two Australian National Line vessels to be built in Japan if the Premier received from State Dockyard unions a moratorium on industrial disputes and wage claims. An offer was made to  Mr Dunstan  in South Australia of Commonwealth assistance to secure orders for Whyalla if the Premier could obtain similar assurances from Whyalla shipyard unions. Following negotiations, I understand, the offers were rejected and the vessels were ordered from Japan. 
This is another matter that worries me. We all are interested in the shipbuilding industry. We all recognise that at the moment for several reasons it is an uneconomic proposition. There is a world overcapacity in shipbuilding. There is no demand for large vessels. Faced with those matters, I believe that the Government has to pay some regard to the cost to the taxpayers of propping up this industry, which is a most costly exercise. The IAC findings suggest that the cost of providing assistance is well above the levels required by manufacturing industry generally and there is little hope of improvement. A subsidy of 55 per cent to 60 per cent would be required to equate local costs with those of overseas built ships. 
That works out at between $12,000 and $13,000 an employee. I am thankful for that interjection from  Senator Messner.  All these aspects have been given very careful consideration, together with the fact that in Australia we already have a capacity to build ships through the Department of Defence.  Senator Bishop  ought to be well acquainted with that. The Department of Defence maintains the Williamstown naval dockyard which has a shipbuilding capability to produce ships of destroyer size. As a member of the Public Works Committee I visited the dockyard. The Committee conducted inquiries with the object of extending the facilities so that the dockyard could build a couple of DDL destroyers. Regrettably the government of the day decided not to proceed with that proposal. I think that was a pity. That is another thing that we as a government ought to be looking at. 
There is also the dockyard at Cockatoo Island.  Senator Hall  probably has seen it. It is a very interesting establishment. It is leased to Vickers Cockatoo Dockyard Pty Ltd, a private company. It is capable of building ships of up to 15,000 tonnes. Other smaller firms such as Carrington Slipways Pty Ltd can build ships of up to 6,000 tonnes, I believe. Dillingham Shipyards Pty Ltd is another shipbuilding firm. Garden Island is another establishment which has a major refit capability and can modernise vessels. We also have a repair and servicing facility at Cockburn Sound. So we are not without a shipbuilding capability, but we have to balance our thinking on both the economic and social aspects. Honourable senators must always remember that the Labor Party recognised this as well. When it was in office it ordered seven ships from overseas. It recognised that there were economic advantages in doing that. We are merely following the policy that was laid down by the previous Government. We recognise that its judgement in this area was fairly close to the mark. That is a very odd thing for me to say, but this is one area in which I think the decisions that were made at the time had some logic associated with them. 
I sent a telegram to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in May this year, after I read a Press statement which indicated that the Government was going to renege- I forget the exact headline- on a $10m proposition to restructure industry in Whyalla. I find it very difficult to believe some of the headlines in the newspapers. This one was in the  Adelaide News.  I remember reading the headline in 1973, during an election campaign, which said that  Mr Dunstan  was going to build a $300m petrochemical works at Redcliff near Port Augusta. 
-That is right. That brings me to - 
-No, I have not. I will deal later with the letter. I commenced by saying that honourable senators from South Australia on both sides of the chamber supported the spirit of the Council's suggestion that we should follow up this recommendation. It was clinging to this straw and we quite properly offered our support. 
-I have already told the Senate what my attitude is and I have given reasons for it. The letter from the Prime Minister to the Premier of South Australia referred to the fact that the Government had given serious consideration to the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. 
-I have the letter here. I stand by that. I am still waiting for a final reply in answer to the letter that I drafted, with  Senator Bishop's  approval, and which was signed by myself,  Senator Davidson, Senator Messner, Senator Bishop, Senator Donald  Cameron and  Senator McLaren.  I am not saying that I am not looking forward to some further consideration of the matter. I am saying to honourable senators opposite that the Prime Minister has answered the Premier of South Australia in those terms that have given me the clear impression that the Government has considered the report and has rejected it as not being an economic proposition. I should like to refer to a note that I have on that particular matter. It indicates the matters that the Government has considered and states that the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in an interim report, the Hamer Report- that is the report to which  Senator Bishop  referredconcluded that the existing large ship construction industry should be retained. The Government has carefully considered this aspect of the report and its evaluations made it clear that the cost to the community of the assistance needed to retain the industry would be higher than could be justified on economic, social and defence grounds. That was the spirit of the letter written to the Premier of South Australia. 
-I read it out. 
-That has been looked at. I have a letter from the Prime Minister in answer to my other representations which indicates similar thinking to the decision we have taken. The letter states:   . . is likely to lead to the decline of large ship construction in Australia. Our evaluations have made it clear, however, that the cost to the community of the assistance needed to protect that industry's future in Australia would have been well beyond the level that could be justified on economic, social and defence grounds. 
That is the response from the Prime Minister. I certainly am anxious to see that everything is done that can be done by the Commonwealth. The State Government has a great responsibility so far as Whyalla is concerned. I would have liked to see  Mr Dunstan  proceed with the $300m project which he promised in 1973. That would have provided about 3,000 jobs while the Redcliff petrochemical works was being constructed. It would have provided 710 permanent jobs backed up with jobs for about 4,000 other people who would have been required for ancillary work. 
-That is right. The uranium enrichment plant which was strongly advocated by  Mr Connor  when he was Minister for Minerals and Energy would have been established. In 1974, I think,  Mr Connor  conducted a feasibility study with respect to the construction of such works in the Spencer Gulf area.  Mr Dunstan  was leading the way- so he told everyone- in promoting South Australian industrial interests. Perhaps if he had proceeded with that type of proposition- I believe the incoming Liberal Government will do that- it would have provided tremendous job opportunities in Whyalla. Millions of centrifuges would have been required which could have been prefabricated in that city. I referred to another proposition during the Budget debate. It was the proposal to mine uranium at Lake Frome which would have provided, directly and indirectly, 1,000 jobs. This has been subsequently confirmed by the Department of National Resources. 

 - Senator McLaren does not take any interest in unemployment in South Australia. He does not go to the bother of using his head to work out ways and means of developing the State. 
I make no rash statements. I make statements of fact. That particular proposition would have required $100m worth of plant. Where could that plant be prefabricated? The answer is: in South Australia. What better place for this plant to be prefabricated? It could have been prefabricated in Whyalla by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. We could have provided jobs for those people about whom we are so worried. These are the sort of proposals that I am following up. I have asked the Government to provide, through the Loan Council, $248m for the State Government on loan to enable the 
Redcliff project to proceed. I have advocated that the future State Government ought to consider propositions concerning the development of the uranium industry. If we do not promote the uranium industry in South Australia, Charlie Court and Bjelke-Petersen will beat us to the punch: That is the sort of attitude that we ought to be adopting in South Australia- an interest in our State which is losing industries now because of the absolute incompetence of the present South Australian Government whose sense of values is distorted. So far as I am concerned the sooner  Mr Dunstan  is kicked out, the better. 
It is unfortunate that  Senator Keeffe  should refer to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  as replying in devious fashions - 
-You did. 

 -Mr Deputy President - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Jessop,  I listened very carefully to  Senator Keeffe.  He said that he should not or would not use the word devious'. I nearly pulled him up, but he made that point. 
I accept your assessment,  Mr Deputy President.  I will read the  Hansard  with interest tomorrow. 
-I will read the  Hansard  with interest tomorrow. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  No,  Senator Keeffe.  , 
-I am glad to know that the Opposition has no objection to the Air Navigation Amendment Bill. I also am glad to know that  Senator Keeffe  quite properly has recognised the Australian air navigation record not only domestically but also internationally. It is quite fitting that the Senate should approve the protocol that has been established ' internationally. An amendment to the Air Navigation Act 1920 approved the ratification of the 
Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation of 1944. 
I believe that this navigation arrangement internationally will become of increasing significance now that we have adopted a 200-mile off-shore zone. I can see that it will be increasingly difficult to exercise surveillance over the waters of Australia. With a 200-mile offshore zone, an area of something like 6 million square miles of ocean will have to be surveyed. I predict that this legislation will take on a far greater significance in future. 
-I know that  Senator Mulvihill  has displayed an interest in this matter. I would not be surprised if telemetrically equipped balloons, if that is what he is referring to, are of significance. I would not be surprised if the Bill we are discussing embraced that sort of activity. It is important that we as a Government look ahead to that sort of possibility. I appreciate  Senator Mulvihill  's comment because I know that on the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment he and I have exercised incredible interest, a community interest, in these matters. 
-That is an interesting point.  Senator Mulvihill  raises a very significant point. It is very important that we as a Parliament and a Senate recognise the significance of what he said. The Bill presents no great problems, as far as the Government or the Opposition is concerned. I commend the Government for introducing the Bill, which will promote further goodwill in the international aviation sphere. 
I present the following petition from 53 citizens: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, in the Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia showeth: That the Charter of the United Nations clearly precludes it from interference in the domestic affairs of a country or from obstructing the free transmission of news and information between individuals and between nations. 
That the United Nations, in apparent illegality, has imposed many restrictions and sanctions upon Rhodesia which has been remarkably free from the bloodshed and turmoil of Northern and Central African lands, even to the extent now of actively encouraging armed conflict against the legally elected Government of Rhodesia. 
That Communist Chinese infiltration in much of Africa over many years, and Cuban Communist troops reported to number 25,000 are dominating nearby Angola and possess modern missiles, etc. 
It is urgent that Mozambique, now under Communist domination and which has a common border with Rhodesia, does not receive any further aid from the Commonwealth Government of Australia, which has benefited mainly, the terrorist guerilla movements that are responsible for the deaths of many Rhodesian people. 
It is urgent for the Australian people to determine for themselves, the actual facts of the Rhodesian struggles. 
It is urgent that the Senate and the House of Representatives in the Parliament assembled, will observe common justice and proper humanity by inviting only authorised representatives of the present Government of Rhodesia to Australia, to do what they have been deprived to do previously, present their case fully and publicly so that this can be examined and tested, without interference and so that the eventual impact on Australia's own security and defence alliances can be gauged with better accuracy. 
Your petitioners request urgent action to be taken immediately. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Since this petition exceeds 250 words in length I do not propose to ask that it be read. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. The Minister will recall that last week I asked whether she was aware of a shortage of cocaine in Australia's major hospitals. Is she aware that this was confirmed in a statement at the weekend by the Medical Superintendent of the Royal Adelaide Hospital, who said that unless the hospital received supplies within the next few days surgeons would have to resort to general anaesthetics, of course, with consequent added risk to the patient, for certain surgical procedures that are normally carried out by local anaesthetic using cocaine? The Superintendent also confirmed, as I have stated, that although this drug was not obtainable through government sources it appeared to be readily available on the illicit market, which in my view is an appalling state of affairs. Has the Minister discussed this with her colleague? If so, what is the Government doing to ensure that hospitals are provided with supplies of this important drug? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. I refer to the article in today's  Australian Financial Review  relating to statements by Western Mining Corporation executives in a draft of a $45 m United States-Eurodollar loan prospectus. Is the Minister able to say whether, as is claimed by the executives, the copper belt at Roxby Downs in South Australia may be similar to the famous Central African copper province and that drilling has intersected a very large body of copper and uranium mineralisation? Can the Minister say whether it would be economical to mine the copper and stockpile the uranium, as I understand has been suggested by  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia? Does the attitude of the South Australian Premier represent a departure from the present Australian Labor Party uranium policy? 
I listened with interest and with tears to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  as he tried to demonstrate some of the problems that are associated with the economic situation in Australia today. In listening to his last sentence or so, I was reminded by him of the last Hayden Budget which, when it was introduced, anticipated an increase in personal income throughout Australia of 24 per cent during the ensuing 12 months. This implied, as was admitted and can be calculated, a 43 per cent increase in personal taxation. Immediately the present Government came into office we acted to introduce tax indexation, which guaranteed that if wages increased in Australia by 24 per cent then tax would increase by no more than 24 per cent. That was done at a cost of $ 1 ,000m in the first year and has been done up to this time at a cost in excess of $2m to the revenue. That sort of story that is promoted by  Senator Wriedt  is completely unacceptable, as far as I am concerned and as far as the rest of Australia is concerned, because it is nothing more than an attempt to delude the people of Australia. 
The Bill that we are discussing at the present time represents a continuation of the policy that was introduced by the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1970 when it decided that the 
States should have Loan Council programs that took the form of interest free non-repayable grants in lieu of what would otherwise be interest bearing borrowings by the States. Obviously  Senator Wriedt  took no notice of the second reading speech that was delivered in this place by the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton.  Moreover the grants were introduced, as  Senator Cotton  plainly pointed out in his second reading speech, to help the States to finance works such as school buildings, police stations and similar buildings from which debt charges are not normally recovered.  Senator Wriedt  did not pay any regard to that. It is important to note that the States are entirely free to apply these grants as they choose and that no terms or conditions are attached to them. 
I believe that the States should follow the example that has been set by the Federal Goverment in reducing public expenditure. I am one of those who may have been slightly critical of the Government's policy with respect to capital expenditure. I think that we ought to be having another look at the area in which government expenditure provides jobs. The States certainly have not demonstrated an interest in restraining expenditure with respect to the proliferation of Public Service employment and matters such as that. South Australia, of course, has benefited quite handsomly from the generosity of the Federal Government under  Mr Fraser.  During the recent election campaign  Mr Dunstan  tried to make a play about being given a raw deal by the Federal Government. Of course, his comments in that regard were not valid because South Australia benefited to the extent of receiving $120 per head more than the average Federal Government contribution to the other States. 
-He was successful, of course, because the redistribution was contrived to give the State Government a majority of at least four or five seats. In fact, the Labor Government in South Australia could have won the election with less than 50 per cent of the vote. I think that is an indictment of the South Australian Government. For  Mr Dunstan  to claim satisfaction from the result of the recent election is again a typical example of the Labor Party over emphasising the success of an election. He was euphoric, of course, in that environment but he should recognise within himself that this was the least that he could expect. He would have been more satisfied with a majority of ten, but five is what we would have expected from the redistribution. 
My colleague,  Senator Messner,  agrees with me so I must be right in what I have just said. Apart from that, the State of South Australia, because of the deal that was done with respect to the rural railway takeover by the Commonwealth, was able to show a surplus last year of $18. 4m. This year, of course, the Government of South Australia would have saved at least $60m as a result of that simple action by the Commonwealth Government. Last year the deficit saving alone in South Australia was $26. 5m and this year it is estimated to be something like $26.3m. This emphasises the regard that the Federal Government has for the position of the States, in particular the State of South Australia. 
I think this in itself brings out the obligation of the States to recognise that they have some responsibility in the present economic circumstances to restrain their expenditure. I heard  Senator Wriedt  talking about  Mr Hamer,  the Premier of Victoria. I recognise that he is a member of my party, but I think it is incumbent upon him to recognise the statement that I have just made. I believe that if all the States co-operated with the Commonwealth Government and emulated the example that it has set by exercising restraint in the areas that I have mentioned, the economy of Australia would be improved in a dramatic sense. I am very pleased to support this Bill, which is a continuation of the initiatives that were taken by the Liberal-Country Party Government in June 1970. I am very pleased with the way in which the economy is shaping. There is no doubt that there has been an improvement in significant areas of the economy. This is recognised daily by eminent economists and eminent industrialists in the country. I believe that we ought to give encouragement in this regard. Far from the attitude that has been demonstrated in this place today by the Opposition with respect to our currency, I think we all ought to get behind the Fraser Government. I would like to see the Premiers of the States following this example. I believe that if this happens our economic recovery will be swifter and the unemployment position will be improved. I believe that that sort of attitude ought to prevail generally in Australia. I have very much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister. The Minister will be aware that the South Australian Government has made an approach to the Federal Government for a loan to provide infrastructure associated with the proposed petrochemical works at Redcliff in South Australia. I understand that the decision to proceed with this industry largely depends on the granting of a loan for this purpose. Is the Minister aware of a statement on the Australian Broadcasting Commission news this morning to the effect that the Premier of South Australia has received a letter from the Prime Minister relating to this matter? Can the Minister say whether the Government has agreed to this proposal? If not, when can an announcement be expected? 
We are debating two Bills cognatelythe Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Bill and the States Grants (Roads) Bill. These Bills are quite significant in that they provide a considerable amount of money to the States for these purposes. The Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Bill provides money to each State to upgrade urban public transport. In his second reading speech the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  informed us that in determining each State's allocation the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has taken into account the relative availability of funds from current appropriations and existing State commitments. In particular, he took cognisance of the opportunity which New South Wales has to re-allocate its available funds. I note that in the second reading speech it is stated that $600,000 has been provided to New South Wales for double-deck suburban rail cars; $2m to Victoria for suburban trains and trams; and Sim to South Australia for buses. I believe that that will be quite helpful in upgrading the public transport in those areas. However, I agree with  Senator Keeffe  that more attention has to be given to this important area, particularly bearing in mind the need to pay regard to the future conservation of fuel. I think that upgraded urban public transport facilities should be given a very high priority from that point of view. We ought to be doing all we can to discourage people from using their own private vehicles and using considerable amounts of fuel in excess of what should be used at this critical time of energy conservation. 
The other Bill with which we are dealing is the States Grants (Roads) Bill which covers both national highways and other roads. I was interested particularly in the inclusion this year of a category of roads which is quite differentthat is, the national commerce roads. This represents one of the main changes proposed in this legislation. The changes in which I am most interested are the establishment of planning committees as an alternative to existing procedures for approval of programs provided, of course, that the Federal Minister and the State Minister agree to institute such an arrangement; and the inclusion of a new category, national commerce roads, in place of the previous categories of export roads and major commercial roads. The beef road category has been omitted. The Bill provides definitions for what are considered to be national highways and national commerce roads. Clause 5 (1 ) of the Bill states: 
The Minister may declare a road in a State that constitutes, or a proposed road in a State that would, if constructed, constitute, a part of the road that, in the opinion of the Minister, is or will be the principal road linking- 
2 or more State capital cities; 
a State capital city and Canberra; 
a State capital city and Darwin; 
Brisbane and Cairns; or 
Hoban and Burnie, to be a national highway for the purposes of this Act. 
Subclause (3) states: 
The Minister mav declare a road in a State that facilitates, or a proposed road in a State that would, if constructed, facilitate, trade or commerce, or the development of trade or commerce, with other countries or among the States to be a national commerce road for the purposes of this Act. 
This particularly attracts my attention because in South Australia we have the Stuart Highway which quite definitely comes within this particular category both as a national highway and as a national commerce road. I have brought this matter to the attention of the Minister from time to time and have had quite sympathetic hearings from him. In fact, he places great importance on the Stuart Highway, as evidenced in a statement that he made, I think, at Darwin on 24 July this year. I will read this statement for the benefit of the Senate because it signifies the importance that the Minister and the Federal Government place upon this road. The news release stated: 
The Minister for Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon, said today he wanted a start made as soon as possible on sealing the Stuart Highway in South Australia to all-weather standards. 

 Mr Nixon said the Stuart Highway was a vital life-line for the people of the Northern Territory and the Commonwealth was prepared to finance its development as a National Highway. 
The Stuart Highway is sealed in the Northern Territory, but within South Australia it is in a shocking state',  Mr Nixon  said. 
I see that  Senator Wright  is in the chamber. I recall that when he was Minister for Works he highlighted the urgency in dealing with this road. I understand that at that time he traversed the road in a four-wheel drive vehicle so he knew just what condition that road was in at that time. 
I can assure him and the Senate that it certainly has not improved. The news release continues: 
A major study by the Commonwealth and South Australian Governments has recommended that between Wirrappa and the Northern Territory border the road be constructed on one of two alternative routes. Both are in the vicinity of the present Stuart Highway but are some 200 kilometres  shorter 

 Mr Nixon said that when public comments on the environmental aspects had been considered he would decide which route should be developed. 
I think that particular environmental study has been completed and I understand that some announcement has been made by  Mr Virgo  with respect to it. The Minister went on to say: 
In the meantime it is possible to start sealing the SO kilometre gravel section of the Stuart Highway between Bookaloo and Mount Gunson north of Port Augusta. 
As we all know in South Australia, that road is regarded as a horror stretch and has claimed many lives. The news release continued: 

 Mr Nixon said  Mr Virgo  had not included this project in the program of 1 977-78 National Highway works submitted to him for approval. 
However, I have indicated to  Mr Virgo  that I want works between Bookaloo-Mount Gunson well under way during 1978-79',  Mr Nixon  said. 

 Mr Nixon said he had recently written to  Mr Virgo  asking if these works could be initiated during this financial year. 
I regret to say that  Mr Virgo  does not consider that highway of any importance to South Australia otherwise he would have given it a high priority on his program of works. I regard it as being of great importance because, as the Minister for Transport mentioned in his statement, it is of major significance to the people of the Northern Territory. We know only too well how often that road has been cut due to rain and the consequent flooding. I regard the road as most important to the mutual development of South Australia and the Northern Territory. I have mentioned this point before: In South Australia, we are losing $70m or $80m a year to Queensland simply because the road from Darwin to Brisbane is sealed. Also, the development of the northern part of South Australia must be regarded as being of great importance to that State. Until we get an adequate sealed road through that area, I believe that the development of the mineral potential in that area will be retarded. 
I also have a regard for the increase in the tourist traffic that would eventuate between South Australia and the Northern Territory. The area has great tourist potential. The sealing of the road would encourage far more people from eastern Australia and the west to take advantage of the tourist attractions we have in the southern State and the Northern Territory. I reiterate my regret that the State Minister for Transport,  Mr Virgo,  has not seen fit to give this road a high priority. I was encouraged by the letter that I received from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  recently with respect to this project. In that letter, he gives the clear impression that he endorses completely what  Mr Nixon  said about that road. I do not know whether the Minister for Education can give me an answer later in the debate as to whether it would be possible, bearing in mind the importance that the Federal Government places on this highway, to obtain a special grant at least sufficient to seal the 50 kilometre section to which I have referred and to make a start on the survey and planning of the road further to the north. I, together with  Mr Calder,  the member for the Northern Territory in another place and  Senator Kilgariff,  propose talking with the Minister for Transport this afternoon on that matter. But I draw that to the attention of  Senator Carrick. 
This Bill provides for $475m of Commonwealth money to be provided to the States for roads in various categories. Also, of course, the State quota expenditure required to accompany that Federal money amounts to $418.8m. The two amounts added together total approximately $2,68 1.4m which will be spent over the next three years. That is not an inconsiderable sum of money and it indicates the anxiety of the Commonwealth Government to push on with the construction of roads in these various categories. I was particularly pleased to see how we have regarded the importance of rural arterial roads and rural local roads. There is quite a long list of local government authorities which will benefit from this finance. I believe that in South Australia, 95 or 96 local government authorities will be provided with funds for use on local or rural arterial roads. 
Another aspect of the Bill which I think is important is the continuation of the minor traffic engineering and road safety improvements program. In South Australia, several intersections have been regarded as unsatisfactory. The Commonwealth therefore has been able to provide funds so that co-ordinated signal systems, modified intersection signals and channelisation can be provided. I think this question of coordinated signal systems is most important. I feel that we do not regard this matter as sufficiently important or give it the priority that we should. We should bear in mind the waste of fuel caused by inordinate delays at traffic lights and the fact that over a twelve month period the total amount of fuel wasted by vehicles waiting at traffic lights with their engines idling would be tremendous. 
No doubt, honourable senators have experienced the delays I have experienced during city peak traffic periods when they are sitting in their motor cars held up not just at one set of traffic lights but at several sets of traffic lights. Rectification of this problem could conserve considerable amounts of fuel and therefore I highlight the importance of continuing this part of our roadworks program. 
I believe that we also ought to continue to ensure that adequate road safety is carried out throughout Australia. That is provided for also in this Bill. I do not think I need to say much more, except to reiterate what I have said about the importance of the Stuart Highway as a national highway, as a defence highway and as a national commercial road. In conclusion, I would like to say that the view I hold on this matter is supported not only by my colleague from the Northern Territory and South Australia. It is held also by the Australian Roads Federation which has no fewer than 150 members in South Australia. The Northern Territory Chamber of Commerce with branches at Alice Springs and Darwin also supports the construction of the road. Of course, this project is supported very energetically by the chamber of commerce in Adelaide as well as the representatives of truck drivers who know only too well what a shocking state the present highway is in.  Mr Deputy President,  with those remarks I have pleasure in supporting the Bill before the Senate. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.1S p.m. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report in the Sydney  Sun  of 29 September in which it is claimed by a Melbourne doctor that medical equipment and drugs carried on international flights are not sufficient to treat even the most minor ailment? Has the Minister's colleague in another place been able to determine the validity of this claim? If these allegations are correct, will the Minister undertake to take action or ask his colleague to take action, in consultation with the Minister for Health, to ensure that adequate equipment and drugs are available on overseas aircraft to cope with any emergency? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. The Minister will be aware of my interest in the restructuring of industry at Whyalla due to the downturn in the shipbuilding industry. Is the Minister aware of the suggestion that has been promoted in the Press that the Australian National Railways is considering using the facilities at the Whyalla works of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to produce rolling stock for the Australian National Railways? Is this correct? Has the ANR carried out a study to assess the feasibility of this scheme? If so, can the Minister say what job opportunities would be presented? 
-Has the Minister for Industry and Commerce received a report from his Department following the visit of Commonwealth officials to South Australia for discussions with officers of the South Australian Premiers Department on Thursday, 22 September, concerning the infrastructure required for the construction of the proposed Redcliff petrochemical works? When will the Government be able to make a decision on this matter, which is so important to the Spencer Gulf area and South Australia generally? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. I refer to the increasing importance of oceanography to Australia, particularly since the extension of the ocean limit to 200 nautical miles. Can the Minister indicate whether the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation proposes taking an extended interest in physical oceanography? Will the Minister give urgent consideration to the advantages of establishing an Australian institute of physical oceanography or, alternatively, extending the Australian Institute of Marine Science to include a special department of physical oceanography? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Can the Minister say whether patients treated under dental specialties of orthodontics, pedodontics, prosthodontics, periodontics, endodontics and oral surgery are paid higher benefits by health funds than the benefits paid to patients of general dental practitioners? Can she also indicate whether Medibank has a higher scale of benefits for patients of dental specialists? If not, will the Minister ask her colleague in another place to consult the funds and Medibank to correct what appears to be an anomaly in the health scheme? 

 - Mr Deputy President, I should like, first of all, to pay tribute to the Committee that worked in the Senate to present this report and, as well, to the staff that is always with us and without whose help, of course, the production of such reports would be impossible. The report has, I think, one major thrust: to draw to the attention of the Government the need to establish an energy policy, something that I do not think we have come to grips with yet. The Committee directed attention to the need to establish an Australian energy commission. In that sort of environment, the question of solar energy ought to be considered but I become very concerned when I read certain predictions as to what is going to happen by the year 1990. 
Only yesterday, according to a report in the  Australian  on an address to the Australian Institute of Management, I think in Canberra, Professor Watson-Munro posed the question quite dramatically. The heading was 'Disaster by 1990: Staggering Oil Crisis Predicted'. He suggests that petrol will be rationed by that time and that the price per gallon will rise to between $3 and $4; that cars will be smaller and lighter; that public transport will be overcrowded; that private cars will be barred from the centre of our cities; and that it will be illegal for industry to use oil where coal and solar power could be used. I must say that scientists sometimes get a little bit carried away with their prophecies in these areas and that sometimes I find it difficult to believe that this will happen; nevertheless there are so many people in Australia, and in the world, who share this concern that I think the Government must take serious note of it and move rapidly towards establishing an energy policy. 
Professor Watson-Munro, who is well-known and is a professor of plasma physics at Sydney University, suggests also that by the year 1990 private individuals and industry would be faced with spending up to $ 1,000m annually on solar energy collectors; further, that expenditure to the tune of $6,000m would be required for a plant to produce oil from coal, and $3,000m for equipment to produce oil from vegetation. These figures are quite suggestive and highlight the urgency of the problem that the world and Australia in particular, is facing. I heard this morning- I believe on  AM-  that the Minister concerned with energy production in New Zealand had just returned from a conference on energy matters and supported this contention. 
The report itself tends to suggest that governments ought to be doing more to encourage people to install solar units for low temperature purposes in their homes, and I would support that completely. In South Australia we have had a state of affairs where the Electricity Trust has virtually encouraged people to squander energy, penalising those who were prepared to install solar heaters in their homes by denying them the benefits of the low J tariff rating. That is a crazy situation and, thankfully, there has been a change of attitude in that area; incentives are being offered to people to introduce solar units in their homes, indeed to industry as well. 
I was very grateful to  Senator Thomas  for inviting my Committee, the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, to accompany him on a visit to the Queanbeyan premises of Coca Cola. A low temperature solar energy unit has been installed at the plant to heat cans to 9 degrees celcius to prevent condensation. That unit was installed with the cooperation of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, at a cost of, from memory, $40,000 or $50,000. This means that in that small factory we will see a saving of oil which otherwise would be used for heating purposes. 
I have some concern about energy in Australia. I believe that the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment does not go far enough in emphasising the need for more intensified research in this area. I have had a lot to do with scientists who are doing quite valuable work in solar energy but who are inhibited in that work because we are unable to provide sufficient funds to give this work the impetus that it truly deserves. I received a letter the other day from Professor Bockris who is well known in the area of solar energy research. He is a professor of chemistry at the Flinders University. In the letter, which is dated 28 September 1977, he makes certain points which I have transmitted to the Minister for National Resources,  Mr Anthony,  for his consideration and comment. In referring to solar energy, he expresses concern about the time factor. With respect to time aspects, he states: 
This scares me. By 1982, Bass Strait will be falling away rapidly as far as its component of our own oil is concerned and we shall be going up towards the Japanese situation. They are on foreign oil and pay S2.S0 per gallon at the present time. 
Consider what a difference it would make to Australian life if we had to pay $2.50 per gallon for petrol. 
It is clear that the Government does not understand a very fundamental fact; the price of energy controls the economy. If the energy supply is cheap, the economy will go well. This simple statement- which is not the sort of thing which economists understand-is proven by looking at the graph between income and energy per head. 
The Professor draws attention to the book that he wrote entitled  Energy  and suggests that that work ought to be referred to. Another heading he has included in the letter is "The most unfortunate Government report on solar energy'. I say that in all deference to my colleague,  Senator Thomas.  I do not subscribe necessarily to everything that the professor says. But the letter tends to emphasise the concern in the community at the present time. Apparently, the professor has written a review of the report and no doubt the comments that he makes will be duly considered by the people concerned. 
Certainly, we must move to a stage where we become increasingly more conscious of conservation of energy. I remember when my father was alive- I think I have mentioned this incident before- one of the habits he had was to go around turning off lights to save energy, not from the point of view of conservation. In those days, it was a question of economics. My father just could not afford to pay the power bill. These days, we seem to be more affluent and because of that we are far more careless. A national advertising campaign ought to be conducted to encourage children, through the schools and in the family home itself, to turn the lights off. 
-I did not want to use that expression. I regret very much that my colleague intervened at that stage. I would like to make another point in regard to energy conservation. We are refining our crude oil in Australia up to a point. But it concerns me that between 1,000,000 tonnes and 1,500,000 tonnes of Australian crude oil each year is not properly utilised simply because we have not developed the technology of catalytic cracking. If that technology were employed in Australia, we would be able to utilise that energy source in lighter fuels and allow our Australian crudes to go a lot further. We could still import oil from overseas. If necessary, this energy could be stored in caverns similar to what is occurring in South Africa and the United States of America. 
The situation alarms me. I recognise the expense involved in changing the technology to this form of cracking the oil. I imagine that it would take three or four years to achieve this. But the fundamental point at present is that the oil is being used for heavy industrial purposes when it ought to be used for motor vehicles. It occurs to me that the Government ought to be looking very carefully at that and encouraging industry to move into this new area of technology. I understand that the price recommended for Australian oil by the Prices Justification Tribunal is about $72 a tonne. It is being sold at $35 a tonne. In my view, the use of oil in such a way represents an utter waste. That is an area I would like the Government to examine critically with  the object of ensuring that we undertake more research into oil cracking technology in Australia so that we can fully utilise the indigenous crude oil that we have. 
I think it was  Senator Hall  who during Question Time this morning asked about the encouragement of further oil exploration. I made a submission to the Minister for National Resources,  Mr Anthony,  containing suggestions about how smaller companies ought to be encouraged to provide us with a little more impetus in oil exploration in Australia. I have here three or four pages of suggestions that I believe ought to be given consideration by the Government. I have not shown them to  Senator Keeffe  but I would like to have them incorporated in the  Hansard  record. 
-No, none at all. In the interests of time, I seek leave to have this submission incorporated in  Hansard. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

SUBMISSION 
ONSHORE OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION ACTIVITY IN AUSTRALIA-JULY 1977 
Onshore oil and gas exploration activity has been decreasing in activity since 1 97 1 -72. 
The original decrease was due to economic downturn at about the time of the change of Government in 1972; however, the present lack of activity appears to be mainly due to the factors set out hereunder 
Lack of risk capital due to the repeal of Section 77D of the Federal Income Tax Act in 1 974. 
The upsurge in activity overseas required large commitments from international companies, and the oil price increase from the OPEC countries further drained available cash from the western bloc companies. 
Present pricing uncertainty; although the Government has said that prices for new oil discoveries will be at world parity, there are a number of leases which should be further developed but there is apprehension that these areas may be classified as' old price ' zone. 
Lack of confidence as to future intervention if there is a change of Government. 
The need to establish a long range policy, agreeable in principle to both political parties to embody the establishment of an Oil and Gas Exploration and Development Body, with statutory powers, to provide stable, continuing, long range guidelines to enable industry planning. 
Stability of Australia as a 'good risk' investment country in view of industrial record. 
Present pricing of natural gas is well below world parity and there is not the profit return expected for risk capital ventures, (e.g. Santos has still not paid a dividend from Moomba gas discovery). 
Lack of available prospecting leases onshore, because the early comers have secured leases which they cannot or have not fully explored. 
The following remedies are suggested to ease the present stagnation which is driving the onshore drillers away from Australia at an alarming rate. 
Encourage Australian investors to subscribe capital for oil and gas exploration. This requires a section similar to the old 77 D, but with restrictions to prevent subscribed funds being used up for other than exploration. Dividends from shares on Australian natural resource companies could be tax free in the hands of the investor or alternatively a dividend tax credit to some major extent to encourage investment. 
The new section 124 in division10aa of the Income Tax Assessment Act has opened up new avenues by allowing exploration expenditure to be offset against income of any type. To date, there does not appear to have been any move by the mineral or industrial companies into the oil or gas field. This may be due to the risk element or the absence of a new pricing policy which has been expected for some time. 
Give consideration to a possible investment allowance such as the present 40 per cent allowance of capital expenditure on new equipment. The allowance may be in the form of a tax rebate which applies equally to profitable or non-profitable companies. 
A policy to increase prices to world parity should be adopted as soon as practical. 'Super Profits' for established producers may be considered a problem in justifying an increase to the public; this could be obviated to a large extent by adopting the following course- 
Payment of increased charges would only be paid to those companies prepared to re-invest into further exploration, or when utilised to create a reserve of imported oil purchased at ruling world parity and stored underground in natural or 'man made' caverns for later use. This method of creating a reserve at present world prices is actually operating in the United States now. 
New oil prices should be determined on the individual merits of the oil field, taking in regard size of reserves, cost of development, including shipping or pipeline costs, reservoir characteristics, etc. 
Improve. Australia's reputation overseas as a trading partner and a reliable source. 
Improve financial remuneration for expatriate personnel with oil field expertise with the reintroduction of the Visiting Industrial Expert (V.I.E.) tax relief benefit. At present expatriates are able to earn higher income in most foreign ' exploration areas than in Australia. 
Publication of a National Energy Policy which the public has been expecting since early 1 976. 
The following additional suggestions are offered for consideration: 
The gas pipeline from Moomba to Sydney could be divested by the Federal Government by making the authority a private listed company. The share price would be determined at a price that would yield a better than average return to the investors. The success of selling the shares would be determined by: 
Only a limited amount of shares would be available for allotment to 'each ' individual. 
Shares would be sold only to Australian nationals at the onset. 
The Government 'guarantees' the dividend payments. 
Shares to be sold through brokerage houses and/or banks. 
As the income to the pipeline company can be guaranteed by tariff adjustments there is little risk to the Government. 
This type of scheme was used to finance the Alberta Gas Truck Line Company in Canada and was most successful. Each resident had an opportunity to participate by subscribing for shares. Eventually each subscriber was allocated 20 shares at $5.50 per share. The investment to the shareholder has paid off handsomely. 
If the pipeline divestiture mentioned above is successfully accomplished a national oil company could be structured along similar lines and formed to take interests in development projects and to some degree exploration. 
The following statistics are taken from the 1976 A.P.E.A. Area Report and indicate the deteriorating position in oil and gas exploration: 1970-121 Wells were drilled 1976-21 Wells were drilled. 

<graphic href="075232197710132_35_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="075232197710132_35_1.jpg"></graphic>

-The report states that solar energy ought to be considered in the general context of energy policy. That is perfectly true. But I share the concern of scientists and engineers in Australia that the Government is not paying sufficient attention to the development of solar energy. Certainly, we must keep the expertise in Australia.  Senator McLaren  mentioned this and so does the report of the Committee. But the scientists cannot be kept working in Australia effectively unless they are provided with the finance to keep them adequately employed. The inevitable result of inattention to that important fundamental aspect of research and development of this important area will mean a continuing brain drain to other countries. 
Australia is very fortunate with respect to solar energy. There is only one other country that has more of this resource. Therefore, this puts us in a position to lead the world in this type of research. 
I appreciate the importance of us attracting knowledge from overseas. I appreciate also the emphasis that the United States of America is placing on this area of technology. I think  Senator McLaren  stated that the United States was spending about $240m this financial year on research and development in this area. I believe that as this nation is so well endowed with this national resource, we ought to push the technology as far as we possibly can. There are other aspects of energy conservation to be considered. One is the American demand for the sun's energy. I refer to an article that appeared in a journal put out by the Department of Overseas Trade. It refers to demand in America for solar energy equipment. The article was written by  Mr S.  J. Maliphant, Senior Trade Commissioner in San Francisco. He points to the tremendous trade opportunities for Australia to provide such equipment and to profit from the export of the equipment to countries like America. 

 -Exactly. Senator Missen shares my view about the conservation of oil because he has been agitating for a long time on the question of re-refining oil, which is another important aspect of energy resources.  Senator Missen  was recently in America and he is probably well aware of the private industry effort in the field of solar energy. In respect of the Committee's report, I pay a tribute to the  Chairman  and the staff who suported him. I commend him for the report. It has drawn together points which are quite fundamental and which must receive more active consideration by the present Government. Despite the somewhat critical remarks which I have made hopefully in a constructive way, I commend the report to the Senate. 
in reply- I would like to wind up the debate. I made a speech about the report when I tabled it. The quotation introducing the report bears repeating. It is from Proclamation 2 of the Declaration of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment and reads: 
The protection and improvement of the human environment is a major issue which affects the well-being of peoples and economic development throughout the world; it is the urgent desire of the peoples of the whole world and the duty of all Governments. 
I think that Proclamation sums up very nicely the approach that the Committee adopted to the inquiry. Our Committee took over this inquiry or reference from a previous Senate committee under the chairmanship of  Senator Keeffe  and composed of other honourable senators. I pay a tribute to the efforts that they put into the matter before we took it over. I also pay a tribute to  Senator Mulvihill,  the  Deputy Chairman  of the present Committee, and to our colleagues,  Senator Bonner, Senator Townley  and  Senator Melzer  who have been of great assistance. Honourable senators who have spoken in the debate have praised the work of the secretariat. I must endorse again the work that has been put into the presentation of this report by the secretariat. Its efforts are certainly well appreciated. 
I am glad to say that during the inquiry State government forestry departments recognised some areas in which they could improve their management techniques and did make changes. I think this was a tribute to the sincerity of the Committee's efforts in this regard. Also, we were able to persuade the Government at least to recognise the importance of adopting one of our recommendations. I refer to recommendation No. 6 in regard to research, which states: 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, the Minister for Primary Industry and the Minister for Science set up a working group empowered to determine the details of research needs as outlined in this report, establish research priorities and make recommendations for the initiation and support of appropriate associated research programs. The Ministers should ensure that all parties with a legitimate interest in the findings of the group have adequate opportunity to present their views. 
That working group was formed and I understand that some preliminary work has been done. But its activities have been held up pending the presentation of the report of the Australian Science and Technology Council on the assessment of forestry research. This report was requested by the Forestry and Timber Bureau of the Department of Primary Industry. I understand that the presentation of that report is imminent and that the Government will take some action as a result of the recommendations of the Senate Committee. 
The report is worthy of intense study by the Government. I believe that many of the recommendations that we have made, if implemented, would contribute a great deal to the welfare of the Australian people, particularly with respect to land use planning which is an area which we believe has been neglected and an area in which State and Federal governments ought to get together in order to ensure that proper policies are introduced to deal with that aspect. I share  Senator Mulvihill  's pleasure that the New South Wales Government has gone part of the way towards acceding to the Committee's request with respect to the Nadgee area. I know that  Senator Mulvihill  is pressing his State counterparts and hopefully we will get the New South Wales Government ultimately to go the complete journey. 
Give him my regards and tell him that we expect him to go the whole way as far as the report is concerned. I have great pleasure in supporting the report. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the ruthless, cold blooded murder of the Lufthansa pilot, Captain Schumann, by terrorist hijackers which has shocked the people of 
Australia and, indeed, the people of the world. Can the Minister say what action, if any, can be taken by the Australian Government to initiate an international conference to decide on ways to end these outrageous incidents? Will the Government consider the reintroduction of capital punishment for this crime, as I believe that that is the type of action we ought to take internationally. 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and refer to a document entitled 'Background File' which is circulated to senators and members in Parliament House. Is the Minister aware that this circular draws attention to a United States tariff applied to Australian built aircraft? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that the Transavia company has built 86 Airtruck agricultural aircraft and that it has established markets in about 14 overseas countries? Is the Minister aware also that one such aircraft has been in the United States for over a year for evaluation and that an early response from agricultural operators in America indicates a potential market for 30 aircraft a year in that country? As Australia does not apply a tariff to American-built aircraft coming to this country, will the Minister make representations to the United States Government with the object of having the tariff on Australian aircraft removed? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. The Minister will recall that on Tuesday I asked him a question about international action relating to terrorist incidents, such as the recent coldblooded murder of a Lufthansa pilot. Can the Minister inform the Senate the current domestic position relating to terrorism? Has action been taken to protect Australia and Australians from such incidents? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer to a front page article in the  Australian Financial Review  of 1 8 October wherein it is claimed that the Prime Minister has written to the Treasurer and other Ministers concerning further support for industrial research and development in the interests of productivity innovation and sound development of industry. The Minister will be aware that this matter is currently being examined by the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment. As Chairman of that Committee I have a particular interest in this question. I ask the Minister whether the Government will examine the possibility of a scheme whereby the Government could underwrite selected research and development projects either in whole or in part in a manner similar to the guarantees extended by the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation. 
One would gather from listening to  Senator Gietzelt  that this Bill has something to do with banning strikes. It is quite clear to me that the Bill is about the preservation of individual rights and is in keeping with the Government's industrial relations policy which has certain principles. One of them is that each member of our community has rights and obligations. Individual rights have to be protected, and we intend to see that they will be. Equally obligations must be met and the rule of law must prevail. As far as I am concerned my view, which is shared by a majority of the people in South Australia, is that the strike in Victoria demonstrates clearly what has happened in Australia when a relatively few people in very powerful positions have sought to inflict their will upon a large number of people. When strikes such as have occurred at the State Electricity Commission prevail for some ten weeks and overflow into other States, I believe the Government has to do something about it. This Bill, as far as we are concerned, will achieve that objective. It has the complete support of responsible trade unionists to whom I have spoken. They believe that the way the militant left wing in the trade union movement has been carrying on in recent years is a disgrace. They blame the left wing quite clearly for the way in which the trade union movement's credibility in Australia has been dragged down to the lowest ebb in our history. We, as a government, believe it is our responsibility to do what we can to restore the trade union movement's credibility in Australia. I believe this Bill will go a long way towards doing just that. 
I get alarmed when I read things such as this headline in the  Australian  this morning: 'Strike blocks $50m container cargoes'. This applies to the ports of Sydney and Melbourne. How can we, as a country, maintain our credibility as a reliable trading partner when that sort of thing persists? 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport been drawn to a reply given in the South Australian House of Assembly on 25 October by  Mr Virgo,  the State Transport Minister, in answer to a question about the Stuart Highway? It is alleged that in the answer the Minister maintained that the Commonwealth is not providing sufficient funds for national highways in that State. Is it a fact that when referring to previous meetings to discuss this important road,  Mr Virgo  inferred that the annual meeting of the 
Australian Roads Federation on Friday of this week was party political? He said: 
It appears that this meeting may well be factioned along the same party political lines. 
Is the Minister aware that the Australian Roads Federation is a non-party political organisation? This was clearly demonstrated by the invitation extended by the Australian Roads Federation on 26 April this year to Labor and Liberal senators and members of State and Northern Territory Assemblies to join the bus trip organised by the Federation to inspect the condition of the road at first hand and to address meetings en route to Alice Springs. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the current situation with respect to the financing and construction planning for the Stuart Highway and of the relative Commonwealth and State responsibilities for it? Is it within the Federal Government's capacity to provide a special grant or subsidy to the State Government to enable this road to be surveyed and constructed as a matter of urgency? 
I take the opportunity on the first reading of this money Bill, the Oilseeds Levy Bill 1977, to refer to two subjects which are of particular interest to me and which 1 believe are of considerable interest to the Australian people. I gather that you,  Mr Deputy President,  would have received two volumes today from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation Division of Soils. These are two of a series of four such publications. They are entitled  Discovering Soils.  I found this material of interest to me because, as honourable senators are aware, I have just completed an inquiry into the woodchip industry and the effects of woodchip and forestry generally on the environment. Therefore I found these publications of great interest. The first volume is a fairly technical one and deals with matters such as: What is soil; formation of soils; soil chemistry and plant growth; soil chemistry and soil physical property; soil chemistry and corrosion problems; soils and water; soil biology; soil testing and tests for agricultural and garden soils. It is a very worthwhile document which I commend to honourable senators and to the public generally. 
-I was' coming to that. I think it is a tribute to the Minister that his Department is producing documents like that which are of great significance to Australia. 
I was going to refer to  Discovering Soils No. 2  and to the section which is entitled 'Soil- Australia's Greatest Resource'. Under the heading 'Soils and Science ' it states: 
The second half of the 19th century was a period of rapid expansion in the use of soils for agriculture in Australia. Inland arid regions were explored and extensive sheep and cattle stations established, the southern wheatlands were cleared of their native vegetation, irrigation areas were established along the Murray River. 
The second half of the 19th century was also a period of rapid expansion in science and technology in Europe and America. Discoveries in chemistry, physics and biology made possible a host of new industrial products, and they also provided a basis for the solution of many agricultural problems. For example, the discovery that plants needed certain nutrients usually obtained from the soil, led to the manufacture of fertilizers such as superphosphate. Studies of soils, particularly those of Russia and America led to the development of methods of classifying and mapping soils and of methods of combating erosion. 
Some of these discoveries came only just in time for Australian agriculture. Already by the 1880s yields of wheat were declining in many areas. Experiments at Roseworthy Agricultural College in South Australia had shown that this was due mainly to phosphorous deficiency . . . 
High levels of salt in irrigated soils were eventually reduced by extensive drainage systems. 
These matters, of course, are increasingly becoming more of a problem, particularly in South 
Australia. I know  Senator Davidson  only recently referred to a report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution of which he was  Chairman.  He asked questions, this week I believe, concerning what the Government was doing about certain recommendations that were made in that report. Some things have taken place because attention was given to the report. In South Australia we depend very largely for our water on the River Murray. It was with some pleasure that the other day I saw that the Government had seen fit to set up a three-State plan to reduce salinity in the River Murray. I understand that a team of Federal and State officers has been appointed to develop a coordinated plan to deal with this very serious problem. The salinity problem in the River Murray is costing South Australia $4m a year. I understand that the cost is escalating at about $100,000 per annum. Therefore it is a very serious problem as far as South Australia is concerned. South Australia is in a different position from the other States that use the River Murray water supply. Water from the River Murray supplies our orchards and vineyards as well as just over 30 per cent of our domestic water supply in normal years. This year we are facing a drought and I have no doubt that we will be using over 50 per cent of River Murray water for our domestic water supply. I think that the use made of River Murray water by South Australia contrasts quite dramatically with the use made by New South Wales and Victoria of the River Murray for the irrigation of green forage and pastures. 
I am very interested in the volumes because they point out matters related to land management, the effect of agriculture on soils and so on. This aspect was highlighted during the examination made by the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment ofthe woodchip industry. We saw evidence in some parts of Australia where indiscriminate farming had caused salinity problems in Australian inland waters. I believe this highlights the need for the Commonwealth Government and the States to look towards the day when we can establish some national policy with respect to land use planning. I shall again quote from the document entitled: 'Soil- Australia's Greatest Resource'. Under the heading 'Problems' the document states: 
What about: the continuing march of erosion in many cropped areas the effects of overgrazing by rabbit, sheep, cow and goat in dry inland areas  massive losses of production through soil-borne pests and diseases the effects of high prices for fertilizers, leading to less use and lowered production the effects of high and rapidly increasing costs of fuel on a highly mechanized agriculture the depletion of reserves of raw materials for fertilizers the limits to a system that is a one-way track from mine to field, kitchen, sewerage system and sea the alienation of good agricultural land for houses, factories and roads competition for land between agricultural, commercial and recreation interests the effects of pollutants of all kinds on soils 
That again highlights the need to have a very close look at the question of an appropriate land use plan for the future. I recall recently something that was said by Professor Peter Schwerdtfeger, a very prominent Professor of meteorology at the Flinders University and a friend of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster).  He suggested that Australia ought to be very concerned about the marginal farming areas and how they are gradually becoming deserts. He put a view that I thought was quite logical- it is one that bears consideration by the governments not only Federal but also State, because in any case this is probably more a State matter than a Federal matter. He said we ought to be examining the possibility of establishing forestry plantations in these marginal areas not only in the interests of preventing the spread of desert but also as a means of employing people at a time when our employment level is not as good as we would like to see it. Therefore I would suggest to the Minister that he might examine that proposition. 
I would like to conclude my speech by referring to the water filtration program in South Australia. Of course, water filtration is quite an expensive proposal. Earlier this year I examined the water filtration project at Anstey Hill and Hope Valley in company with  Mr Corcoran  who at the time was the South Australian Minister for Works. 
-I think the honourable senator might have been there too. 
Yes, there were quite a few senators from South Australia who were interested in the project. I have no doubt my fellow senators from South Australia made representations concerning the need to continue funding this project as an on-going program. It is regrettable, of course, that the State government did not proceed with this program earlier because if it had done so we could have had a water filtration program in South Australia for about half the cost. It was quite encouraging to me to know that something like $ 10.3m has been allocated so that that program can be continued in South Australia. 
-That is quite right The present Government recognised the importance of continuing that program. I was rather disturbed though by the South Australian Premier's undertaking during the recent election campaign in South Australia to provide filtered water for metropolitan Adelaide. However, he made no comment about the need to provide filtered water for places like Port Augusta, Whyalla and Port Pirie which have suffered from the water borne disease amoebic meningitis. I think that was an omission that deserves some reprimand. 
-I would have thought so. This is a typical State Labor government attitude which is more anxious to gain votes in the metropolitan area. I have given my support to the ongoing program which involves, I think, about seven installations in metropolitan Adelaide, in the Victor Harbour area and in the Barossa Valley. I certainly support the idea that we should be supplying filtered water to the northern Spencer Gulf area as well. I will continue to press in that direction. I think the people must recognise, though, that the provision of filtered water involves a considerable expenditure. I wonder sometimes why we cannot devise a way in which, rather than pouring 90 per cent of filtered water on to lawns and gardens, we can provide domestic filtered water only. It seems to me that we should not be flushing toilets or watering lawns with this valuable commodity. 
That is certainly right. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! I am mindful of the South Australian interest in the debate which is proceeding in the chamber at the moment. But I think  Senator Jessop  should be allowed to continue to address the Chair rather than to be distracted. 
-Thank you for your observation,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  It occurs to me that it would be an economic proposition to provide each householder with a domestic filter to supply water which could be used for cooking and so on. In my view it would be an economic proposition but perhaps it would be complicated by the fact that it may be difficult to service that facility. 
-It may well be that  Senator McLaren  can put forward a way in which this can be introduced. I am sure that, if we could provide  Senator McLaren  and other residents of South Australia with a 'free' domestic appliance, it could be done for a cost less than $ 1 54m. That is a proposition that probably would be unacceptable in any case but it is worthwhile thinking about. I have discussed two subjects-the soil, which is Australia's greatest resource, and water, which is South Australia's very rare resource and one that needs to be guarded closely. Certainly we have to do all we can to prevent a continuing salinity problem in the River Murray. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 19 August 1977: 
1 ) Does Form T.H. ( 1964) require an undertaking by an appellant or an appellant's representative with respect to confidential information contained in records used in connection with Appeals Tribunals. 
Under what authority is this form issued by the Department. 
-Is the Minister for Education aware of allegations made in the House of 
Representatives, and again in the Senate on Tuesday night, that the Government has cut funds for migrant education? Will the Minister inform the Senate of the details of expenditure in recent years on both child and adult migrant education? Will he also inform the Senate of the latest increase in expenditure on adult migrant education, so as to allay the fears aroused in the migrant community by the allegations put forward by Opposition members. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. I refer to the recent visit to Australia by  Dr Dickson  Mabon, the United Kingdom Labour Minister for Energy. I preface my question by saying that I enjoyed a dinner with him and his officers last Thursday night. Is it a fact that the Minister for Energy in the United Kingdom is completely satisfied with the storage techniques being applied to radioactive waste following 20 years of experience in the United Kingdom? Is it also true that  Dr Mabon  is very impressed with the safeguards requirements laid down by the Australian Government with respect to uranium? Can the Minister say whether the Government has agreed to supply the United Kingdom Minister's long-term requirement of 1,000 tonnes of uranium per annum? Is he able to say what such an order would mean to Australia in economic terms and also with respect to job opportunities? Can the Minister say whether the United Kingdom 
Labour Minister's mission to Australia to purchase uranium oxide had the endorsement of the United Kingdom trade unions? 
My question, directed to the Minister for Administrative Services, relates to the position of the electorate secretaries of senators and members of this Parliament. The Minister no doubt would have received many representations from colleagues on both sides of the House with respect to the remuneration of staff. Is the Minister aware that electorate secretaries do not enjoy the privileges of paid overtime and flexitime provided to other public servants? Bearing in mind that over the next few weeks leading up to the election these people will be doing quite a lot of extra work and also that their salaries have not kept pace with those of their counterparts in the States, can the Minister say whether senators' and members' staff can be recompensed by the payment of overtime during this period? If not, will the Minister review this matter with the object in future of paying overtime to our staff and providing them with the option of flexitime if they so desire? 

 -Mr Deputy President - 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! If you want to dispute my ruling, do so. 
-I regret very much that the Senate has witnessed that speech from a senator from Western Australia. I do not think that that speech dignified the Senate in any way at all. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Jessop.  Do not canvass my decision. 
-I listened with some interest to the speech made by  Senator Walsh.  It seemed to me that he was setting himself up as yet another shadow economic Minister- perhaps a shadow Minister for economic miracles. I could not quite follow his economic theory, but it seems to me that he demonstrates some interest in the economy on occasions. I enter this debate simply because I heard a speech by  Senator Bishop  which indicated to me that the Labor Party is running scared as far as the electorate of Hawker is concerned because inevitably when that matter is raised honourable senators opposite resort to making personal attacks on people. They know very well that the seat of the present honourable member for Hawker,  Mr Jacobi,  will be lost to the Labor Party and they know very well that  Senator Hall  will be an opponent who can deal devastatingly with any candidate they can produce in Australia. 
I heard  Senator Bishop  claim that while  Senator Hall  was in the State Parliament he was no match for  Mr Dunstan.  That, of course, is a complete and utter distortion of the facts. I have seen and heard  Senator Hall  on many occasions deal very severely with  Mr Dunstan  and defeat him. On two major issues which I can recall- the Dartmouth Dam issue and the Johnston,Q.G, issue-  Senator Hall  absolutely devastated  Mr Dunstan.  Of course, the Labor Party was upset about what  Senator Hall  said about its economic confusion. It knows very well that its economic plan is a two-headed monster, with one head bearing the face of our friend, the honourable member for Oxley,  Mr Hayden,  and the other head bearing the face ofthe honourable member for Adelaide,  Mr Hurford.  Never the twain shall meet, which is one ofthe reasons that the Labor Party is being torn to shreds and will never be a credible alternative government. 
I heard also  Senator Walsh's  remarks with respect to petrol equalisation in which he suggested that the Liberal Party always disregards the welfare of the farming community. I remind the people of Australia that it was the Labor Party which removed the petrol equalisation plan.  Senator Walsh  referred also to the rural bank. The rural Bank will be, if it is not already, a fact. I understand that the legislation for the establishment of the rural bank will be introduced into the Parliament either today or tomorrow. That certainly will assist the farming community in overcoming its serious hardships at this time by providing a refinancing instrument to help the farming community through its financial problems. 
The honourable senator should wait until the Bill is introduced. He will then find out all about it. But honourable senators opposite do not like the fact that we have done something about this matter- something which the Labor Party would not ever even contemplate. I believe that the present Government's economic policies are showing the people of Australia that there is a Government in Canberra which is capable of economic management. Our inflation rate at the present time is of the order of 8 per cent. The Labor Party can boast the highest inflation rate Australia has ever experienced- something like 17 per cent or 18 per cent. Honourable senators opposite do not like my mentioning that because the realise that they are guilty of ruining the country economically and they will do all they can to frustrate our attempts to deal with the serious position which exists in Australia. 
I draw the Committee's attention to the subject of the amount of space allocated in Parliament House to senators and members. I have a document before me that indicates that no less than 21,158 square feet of space is available to senators and members. I am a bit disturbed to note that ministerial suites occupy 27,426 square feet of space. I realise that Minister's require more space than members and senators, but it disturbs me that I do not have enough space in my room to enable me to accommodate a research assistant. I have noted that the Remuneration Tribunal has recognised that back bench members of parliament require such extra help and has said that as soon as sufficient space is available it would be prepared to provide that sort of assistance. In my view that assistance is essential to back bench members and senators at this time when our work load is increasing. Without permanent assistance in Canberra, where the work load is probably as heavy as it is anywhere else, we just cannot cope effectively with the demand upon our time. 
I notice that the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  is making a few notes. It has occurred to me that ministerial suites are available in the respective departments. I ask the Minister to convey my concern in this regard to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Government so that the problems that we are having as back bench members of parliament may be recognised. I believed that the Ministers could use the ministerial suites in their departments more frequently and reduce the amount of space that they require in Parliament House. I can see no reason why the efficiency of the ministerial offices would be reduced in any way as a result of that happening. I ask the Minister to examine the proposal I have put forward that Ministers should make more use of the space available within their departments and restructure their staff situation in Parliament House in such a way as would enable the back bench members of parliament to have the additional space that would permit them to be provided with additional research assistance in Canberra. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations a question that is to a degree supplementary to that asked by  Senator Sim.  Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a circular letter from the Farmers Union of Western Australia Incorporated which states: 
Australia's reputation as a reliable supplier of primary produce is threatened by the total ban placed by maritime unions on trade with Chile and the ACTU ban on the handling of Indonesian flag ships? 
Is he aware that both bans pose a long-term threat to the future of our wheat exports as, prior to the ban, Chile took 5.4 per cent of our wheat and in 1975-76 Indonesia took 6 per cent? In view of the expression of grave concern by this significant farmers organisation, what does the Government intend to do to protect our primary producers from this outrageous union irresponsibility? 
 I support in principle the amendments that have been moved by  Senator Townley. 
I support the principle behind the amendments. I think that the Bill has been altered quite a lot since it was drafted originally, and it meets with my general approval. I certainly will not go to the barricades on the amendments. I merely inform the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  that I think that what  Senator Townley  has said about the two clauses to which he has objections ought to be given serious consideration. I suggest that when this legislation comes up for review at some future time the Minister give favourable consideration to including the amendments that have been suggested by  Senator Townley. 
-I present a progress report from the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment on its science policy reference. The progress report gives an outline of some policy matters for science and technology in the area of the physical sciences. 
Ordered that the report be printed.  Senator JESSOP-by  leave-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
The Senate on 7 April 1976 referred to the Committee, for report from time to time, the following matter. 
1 ) The continuing oversight of Australian science policy in the physical, social and life sciences. 
The direction, priorities, efficacy and ultimate application of Australian research and development efforts in abovementioned sciences. 
At the time, the Committee was engaged in an inquiry into the impact on the Australian environment of the woodchip industry. It was not until May this year that the Committee found itself in a position to begin a public inquiry into the science policy reference. I announced to the Senate on 27 May that because of the wide scope of the reference, the inquiry would, in the first instance, be restricted to matters related to industrial research and development. This inquiry is now well advanced. To date the Committee has received 133 written submissions and has held public hearings in Sydney and Canberra. The Committee expects to conduct further hearings in other capital cities early next year. In the course of its inquiry into industrial research and development, the Committee has accumulated and examined a considerable amount of material relevant to the first part of the science policy reference, most of it relating to the physical sciences. The Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  last week invited the Committee to present its views on any policy matters for the forthcoming years which it believes are in the interest of Australian science. This prompted the Committee to prepare the progress report now before the chamber, covering the first part of the science policy reference. 
The Committee wishes to emphasise that the report is limited to a general overview of information and material acquired by the Committee in the course of its work. The Committee has not yet launched a public inquiry specifically into Australian science policy, thus the report should in no sense be regarded as presenting a comprehensive survey of the topic. It aims to do no more than report progress made by the Committee in some areas, and suggest areas which have come to the Committee's notice as being relevant to an Australian science policy. The Committee hopes, in due course to examine some of these in greater detail. In preparing the report, the Committee felt that any science and technology policy for Australia needed to take into account matters such as national advantages, strengths and weaknesses, special problems and existing international responsibilities. It is also necessary to give due thought to Australia's geographic position; its size and the distribution of its relatively small population; its climate and its mineral resources; its trade and industrial potential; as well as various social factors. 
A national science and technology policy also needs to consider the separate and special characteristics of science and technology themselves, at the same time trying to bridge the gap which the Committee believes exists between them. This need has been put rather aptly by Professor G. M. Badger, now  Chairman  of the Australian Science and Technology Council. Professor Badger wrote in an article in 1975: 
The marriage of science and industry can be very fruitful and produce abundant progeny. The trouble is that it is an uneasy marriage: the partners are often reluctant and we have to keep pushing them together. 
Before concluding I would like to highlight two areas of the report, one covering procedures necessary for policy formulation, the other the need for improved scientific and technical liaison. The Committee has not yet been able to conduct a detailed study of methods needed to formulate and apply a national science and technology policy. Nevertheless, it has been struck by the practicality of the procedures adopted in Norway. These procedures were brought to the Committee's attention in a submission from the Department of Science to the inquiry into industrial research and development. They are described in pages 18 to 21 of the progress report. Norway and Australia are similar in a number of respects relevant to science and technology. It is accordingly likely that procedures found suitable and successful there may serve as a useful model for adaptation here. 
It is stated in the report that weaknesses appear to exist in present arrangements for liaison between the government and various sectors of the community interested in the results of government research. Again, as in Professor Badger's statement, 'the partners are reluctant and we have to keep pushing them together'. Perhaps rather than trying to force them together, a better result might be obtained by endeavouring to develop their inherent good intentions, bringing about a closer relationship through a marriage guidance counsellor. For this the Committee visualises the establishment of an office of scientific and technological liaison, possibly within the Department of Science, which would help to maintain effective communication between the partners. The directory of research currently under preparation by the Department of Science could be regarded as a helpful first step in this direction. I commend the report to honourable senators. 
I want to be associated with this condolence motion in respect of Ted Mattner because of the long friendship I had with him. I came to know him particularly well during the 1966 federal election campaign when he assisted me in the electorate of Grey. When one is campaigning with a fellow under those circumstances one comes to know him very well. I, too, always enjoyed his hospitality at the Onkaparinga race meeting at Easter. I can vouch for the fact that he was a generous man in providing hospitality. Apart from all the other sections of the South Australian community that will miss him, I believe that the racing fraternity in particular will miss him because of the leading role that he played in that sporting field. I join with my colleagues in extending sincere sympathy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the proposal to construct railway rolling stock for the Australian National Railway at Whyalla which was suggested in a South Australian Government working party report. The report suggests that this would provide a considerable number of job opportunities in that city which has a high unemployment level. I understand that the report has been under study by some Government departments. Is the Government able to give a report on that proposal? If not, when can we expect it? 
-I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs to research work carried out by the Division of Entomology of Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and private enterprise into the preservation of grain by injecting nitrogen gas into storage silos. I ask the Minister whether the Australian Government could provide technical help to developing countries through the Australian Development Assistance Bureau to enable this sort of technology to be perfected in those areas. Is the Minister aware that when nitrogen is introduced into gas tight silos no insect or animal can survive, there is no smell or taint or long-term health damage due to pesticide use, there is no damage to the grain at all and this method is acceptable to the Australian Wheat Board? Has the Minister noted that in 28 Asian countries an estimated wastage of 50 per cent occurs in stored grain due to weavils. rodents, insects, birds and rain? Does the Minister appreciate that the prevention of even a 10 per cent loss of grain due to these hazards would provide the minimum daily ration of 16 ounces per person for 185 million people annually? Will the Government give serious consideration to this proposal? 
-For the information of honourable senators I present a report from the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment relating to the annual reports referred to the Committee for consideration under the resolution of the Senate of 22 March 1977. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
The Senate Standing Committee has had referred to it, in accordance with the resolution of the Senate of 22 March 1977, 13 annual reports as follows: 
Is the Attorney-General aware that when senators book transport in Canberra after hours their telephone conversations are taped? Under whose authority is this permitted? What are the legal requirements applying to anyone wishing to tape the conversation of another person? Can the Attorney-General say whether this is a common practice in the Australian Capital Territory? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity and refers to a meeting in Sydney three or four weeks ago which was arranged by the Department of Productivity to form Australia's first Information Technology Council. Can the Minister tell us the aims of this Council? Can he indicate the progress made at the meeting and subsequently, and whether this centre will be of any special benefit to small businesses? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister received a report following inquiries that I understand have been made into the disastrous grain silo explosions in the United States of America in December last where many people lost their lives? Does the Government intend taking action to prevent similar disasters occurring in Australia? Is it a fact that prompt action may be difficult on this front because of fragmentation in the control of grain storage in Australia? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a Press comment attributed to  Sir Leslie  Price, the  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board, in which he favoured the sealing of silos in future in order that nitrogen gas could be injected? This action would not only destroy pests but would also overcome dangers associated with explosions and fire. Will the Minister list this as an urgent agenda item for discussion and action at the next meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and relates to the question asked yesterday by  Senator Young  concerning the extraordinary situation in South Australia where in the past two years some 1 ,200 overseas doctors have registered to practise although they do not live in this country. 
-It is 1,200. From the end of this year 177 doctors will graduate annually from medical schools in South Australia and it is estimated that by 1983 there will be 1,000 too many doctors in the State. Because that will mean that our own medical graduates will be denied work, will the Government take action to prevent foreign doctors from coming to Australia to practise medicine until such time as the oversupply of medicos is corrected? 
I am drawn into the debate because of the reference that was made to the inquiry into the dismissal of the South Australian Commissioner of Police. When this incident occurred in South Australia it reminded me of the Murphy raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation which I believe did a tremendous amount to damage the national security of this country. I thought that was a disgraceful way for any Minister or any Federal Attorney-General to behave. I think anyone on this side of the chamber would have to agree with that. 
Of course every honourable senator should be concerned about national and State security. It is part of our responsibility. But I suggest that the autonomy of a police force in the security area is essential to ensure that proper and appropriate measures are taken to preserve not only national and State security but also the safety of members of parliament and other people who hold responsible positions in this country. I suggest that the action taken in this matter by the South Australian Government was nothing short of irresponsible. 
Our friend  Senator Button  mentioned Acting Justice White who was given a clear set of terms of reference as to how he should go into this question. But I charge him with completely ignoring the terms of reference in one respect. He was asked to make a random selection of files from the Special Branch of the South Australian Police Force. But what did he do? He called for files on all the heads of departments, all the members of the judiciary, all the magistrates and all the members of parliament in South Australia. That, in my view, is certainly not a random selection of files; it is a specific selection of files. I have no doubt - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Maunsell)-  There is no point of order. 
I can understand  Senator McLaren  's concern. Apart from the fact that the acting judge did not adhere to the terms of reference, other aspects of the whole matter concern me. I find that  Mr Dunstan  's attitude to an attack on the Special Branch seems to be quite incompatible with his establishment of a media monitoring unit of the State Government, the purpose of which, of course, is to monitor for the purpose of State Government records any individual who may be making any political comment on the media. I believe that this is an attack on the civil rights of individuals in South Australia. 
Some people have referred to me as the 'underwriter'. I recall that I addressed a demonstration gathering in South Australia at which I defended the private insurance industry against the attacks of the then Federal Government which wished to nationalise the industry and bring it under the heel of government. 
I should imagine that as a result of my address, I would have been put on file because there could be people in the community who have a very strong desire to nationalise banks and the insurance industry, who would perhaps want to do some harm to me. 
I know that members of the Australian Labor Party have been threatened. I understand from Press reports  Dr Jim  Cairns received a death threat when he was at Port Augusta on one occasion. Certainly a file should have been kept on  Dr Cairns  in order to prevent any threat to his personal safety being carried out. I regard that as being an essential role of special branches. Of course, in the national area this is a role that ASIO should perform. I believe that the proposal to bring police forces directly under government responsibility presents the danger of creating a police state. It also creates the possibility of bringing police forces under specific government direction. I abhor such a suggestion. 
Other States may have to look after their own affairs. I am talking about South Australia and national and State security. As  Mr Salisbury,  the ex-Commissioner of the South Australian Police Force, was appointed by the Governor of South Australia I believe it is fair to suggest that decisions relating to such appointments or dismissals should lay on the table of both Houses of the South Australian Parliament for 15 days. The Parliament would then be given an opportunity to debate the issue and explore the matters associated with it for the benefit of the public. I would even go further and suggest that either House of the South Australian Parliament ought to have the authority to reject such appointment or dismissal. 
I am trying to be a little constructive about this matter. I do not think I heard anything constructive from  Senator Button. 
-I listened all right. I thought that he made an incredible speech. I am certainly in favour of security and the protection of individual rights.  Senator Button  mentioned Profumo. There could be people in this country who may associate with people who, albeit later in the piece, turn out to be foreign agents. It is necessary to record these matters and to keep them in mind when we are dealing with national and State security. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and refer to the present serious oversupply of wine grapes. In view of the great success which attended the move of the then Government in the Budget of 1954 to allow an excise differential of 30s per proof gallon of Australian brandy as against other potable spirits, will the Government give urgent consideration to the immediate reintroduction of a differential in equivalent monetary terms to the differential allowed at that time? In putting forward this proposition, I have in mind that brandy production requires three times the quantity of grapes required to produce wine 
-The National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Bill forms the legislative framework which will enable the Commonwealth to provide finance to the States for various water projects and, in effect, provides the legislative means whereby the Government's election promise on this subject will be fulfilled. I greet the introduction of the Bill with much satisfaction because there are many projects in South Australia to which the provisions of this Bill could be applied. South Australia has a particular problem with respect to water filtration. The Labor Government in South Australia is currently carrying out a water filtration scheme which will cost $154m to complete. 
The Premier of South Australia made reference in his policy speech during the South Australian election campaign last year to providing metropolitan Adelaide with filtered water. Unfortunately, he did not mention anything about country areas. In particular, he did not mention the northern Spencer Gulf area, which has very poor water quality. As  Senator Messner  will appreciate, a few years ago problems were encountered there with respect to amoebic meningitis, which is a water-borne disease. That caused a lot of community comment in regard to future filtration of the water supply in that area. I hope that the State Government will recognise the problems there and that it will include a project for that area in its program in the future. 
We must recognise that the size of Australia's fresh water resources cannot be increased except by undertaking large scale desalination projects or perhaps by towing icebergs up from Antarctica. As neither of these methods is likely to be introduced in the near future we must conserve and preserve the limited water resources that we have in Australia. The preservation of water includes its protection from pollution and its purification to permit re-use. It is probably in protecting our water from pollution that most can be done to ensure that our water resources are used sensible and efficiently. Yet it is within this area that coherent national machinery for wise water management is lacking. The Senate will recall that the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, of which I am the  Chairman,  has before it the following reference: 
The continuing oversight of the problems of pollution, including ways and means of preserving the environment from pollution; and the recommending, as soon as possible, of what further measures might be taken to overcome the problems revealed by the reports of the Senate Select Committees on Air Pollution and Water Pollution, and which measures, if any, should be taken urgently. 
Therefore, I think it is appropriate for me to speak on some of the problems of pollution as they affect our water resources. Although my colleagues on the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment may agree with my remarks, I emphasise that my remarks are of a personal nature. In 1970 the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, which was chaired by my colleague  Senator Davidson,  tabled its report on water pollution in Australia. This report was described in the  Bulletin  of 10 April 1971 as 'the standard reference on the subject and an eloquent as well as expert piece of work'. The Committee made the following comment in its report: 
A company investing in water pollution abatement got no direct financial return from its investment and was incurring the expenditure for the benefit of the community as a whole. In addition, it had few legal standards to meet. Consequently, firms with a responsible attitude received little encouragement and even some discouragement in seeing others get away with it. 
But industry is not necessarily the chief offender. Much pollution springs from sewage entering waterways. This is the responsibility of local government authorities and government bodies in the States, which may seem also to be getting away with it. In part, the problems spring from a lack of awareness and from inadequate and fragmentary legislation. The Select Committee's report states: 
The picture of State and Territory legislation built up during the Committee's investigations has been by and large one of a remarkable lack of cohesion bordering on the chaotic. 
Furthermore, no national standards exist for water quality upon which legislation can be based. I note that late in 1976 the Australian Water Resources Council started to compile a series of reports on water quality criteria. It would be interesting to learn the outcome of this work. What is needed is a national water quality reference document of the kind published by the Environmental Protection Agency in the United States of America in the publication entitled Quality Criteria for Water', which is quite a large document. I believe that such a document is long overdue in Australia. 
In view of these remarks, let met quote the first recommendation of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution in Australia. It states: 
Australia should adopt a national approach to the management of its water resources which set out acceptable standards, co-ordinates the aims and aspirations of State and local government authorities and creates the machinery to achieve them in balance with other national goals such as those for growth and development. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order! Too many speeches are being read in the Senate chamber. I think that  Senator Jessop  is reading a great deal in making his speech.  Senator Walsh,  who preceded the honourable senator in the debate, also read his speech. The Standing Orders state that honourable senators should not read their speeches. 
Thank you for your advice,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  When speaking on some subjects I find it necessary to refer to notes quite extensively.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  you may be capable of retaining these matters in your mind, but I find it impossible to do this because the Senate deals with a broad range of subjects. I was talking about the need for co-ordination and the need for the establishment of a national body to deal with this subject. The Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution made reference to the need for the establishment of such a body. Of course, the United States of America has adopted very stringent rules and laws with respect to water quality. I understand that in that country the Federal Government provides all the finance for projects that are shown to comply with the standards that the Federal Government lays down. I think that ought to be examined by the Government with the object of encouraging the States to enter into more conservation projects to minimise the pollution of our inland waters. 
We ought to examine also the treatment of sewage. In Brisbane a clip-on device in a treatment works injects oxygen into the sewage body itself, thus accelerating the bacteriological action and quadrupling the efficiency of the sewerage treatment plant. Similarly, I read in the  New Scientist  in May last year an article which commented on the results of work carried out by the Water Research Centre and the Thames Water Authority on the use of anoxic bacteriological filter beds which can remove up to 90 per cent nitrate from sewerage works effluent. The work was done at the two largest sewerage works discharging into the River Lee, from which 20 per cent of London's drinking water is drawn. It is noteworthy that the extract from the  New Scientist  points out that salmon were caught recently in the River Thames for the first time in many years. 
Last year the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment visited the Lower Molonglo water quality control plant in Canberra, and I think that all honourable senators should take time to inspect that facility. I was delighted to note that the plant, when it is fully operational, will minimise pollution in the Murray River system. Although on its own it may not seem to do a great deal, at least it is an example of projects that ought to be continued throughout the system. On Friday of this week the Committee will visit the Atomic Energy Research Station at Lucas Heights. The Atomic Energy Commission has done a lot of work in determining the age of ground water by measuring the relative quantities of various radioactive substances in the water. An article in the  Bulletin  of 3 1 January this year detailed some most disturbing results of this work as it applies to Australian bore water. For example, water from the Mereenie aquifer which supplies Alice Springs is 2,500 years old and water from the lowest part of the Great Artesian Basin in South Australia is 500,000 years old. Even water from the bores in western New South Wales is at least 200,000 years old. I found that information quite interesting and I am looking forward to talking to some of the experts when we visit Lucas Heights on Friday. 
The Australian Water Resources Council comprises Federal and State Ministers with responsibility for water resources and for works. The Council meets once and sometimes twice a year and is supported by a very small secretariat. According to the Commonwealth Government Directory for 1977, the functions of the Council are: 
To provide a forum for exchange of views relating to the development of policies, guidelines and programs which may be considered appropriate to assist the orderly assessment, and most beneficial development and management of Australia 's water resources. 
I believe that the work of the Council is admirable and does much to assist in examining and dealing with problems relating to our water resources. Even so, I believe that in the modern Commonwealth of Australia problems related to our water resources need more than a mere forum for the exchange of views, even though such exchanges at ministerial level may be fruitful up to a point. Water resources and flows take no heed of State boundaries, and one State's waste may be another State's drinking water. It is very important for the Government to recognise the recommendation of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, which stated: 
. take urgent steps to establish a National Water Commission. The functions of the Commission should include: 
the formulation of a national policy on water resources management; 
b) an assessment of water resources and quality; 
programming for the conservation and orderly development of water resources. 
If this matter was important 8 years ago, how much more important is it today? Australia is the driest continent in the world and South Australia happens to' be the driest State in that continent. The question of establishing a national water commission to deal with the subjects I have just described is a matter of urgency, and the Government ought to take action to see that the recommendation is implemented. 
I note that the Opposition has chosen to submit an amendment to the Bill, which I reject. I believe that it is meaningless and would not serve any useful purpose. I remind the Opposition that each water resources project will require a special appropriation and legislation, debate on which will give ample opportunity to honourable senators to express views on particular projects. I reject the Labor Party's amendment and have pleasure in supporting the Bill, which I believe will stimulate a tremendous amount of capital works throughout Australia at a time when we need to provide job opportunities. 
I briefly want to make one more comment on this Bill. I thank the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  for acknowledging the urgency of our suggestion to establish a national water commission. I should also like to comment on the role of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment which, in effect, has taken up the responsibility placed on it by the Senate, of a continuing oversight of air pollution and water pollution. Both matters were the subject of previous inquiries by Senate select committees. The Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment currently is dealing with two references. One happens to be industrial research and development in Australia but the other is an examination of what has happened in Australia with respect to the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. I remind the Minister of that point so that he can consider it along with the proposition that has been put forward. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that the health of some people is affected by food or drink containing artificial flavouring or colouring? Is it a fact that very few packaged foods indicate on the label whether artificial substances are used in their preparation? Will the Minister investigate this matter with a view to seeking the co-operation of the States in requiring all packaged foods to be clearly labelled if they contain artificial substances so that people whose health may be adversely affected by such substances may be properly advised? 
I am amazed at  Senator Cavanagh  's contribution to the debate. Surely he should recognise that for every project commenced under the National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Bill there will be an appropriation presented to the Senate for debate. 
The honourable senator could discuss the matter objectively at that time and criticise the project if he wished to do so.  Senator Cavanagh  really amazes me because he has been very rigid in his attitude to Senate Estimates committees. The Estimates committees provide a forum in which honourable senators can examine a particular appropriation in fine detail. 
Honourable senators can examine the appropriations during the meetings of Senate Estimates committees when they are presented. We can make requests to the Government. Any Government that ignores requests from a Senate committee does so, I believe, at its peril. As the honourable senator has said already, that is our job.  Senator Cavanagh  referred to our responsibility as a States' House. The Estimates committees provide a forum in which he can exercise that surveillance if he chooses to do so. But the honourable senator has chosen to disregard the opportunity to present his argument in that forum. I can understand his agitation. I am sure that he feels guilty about it. 
I ask the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  whether he has paid regard to what I had to say yesterday afternoon during the second reading debate on the Bill. I referred to the need for the Government to examine the question of establishing national water quality standards throughout Australia. In my view, that is vital and it should be treated as a matter of urgency.  Senator Mulvihill  stated in his contribution to the debate yesterday afternoon that water is one of the most precious resources- I believe it is the most precious resource- we have. It is my view that the Government should pay attention to the recommendation that was laid down in 1970 by the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution to establish a national water commission whose responsibility it would be to lay down a program for the future development of our water resources and a future program for conservation and prevention of pollution in this very important area. I ask the Minister to reply to that and also to draw it to the attention of his colleague in another place, emphasising the urgency of my request. 

 - Senator Rae has also supported that view and I recognise that he was a member of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, of which  Senator Davidson  was 

 Chairman. Senator Mulvihill and other honourable senators have also emphasised the urgency of taking such action and I believe the Government has a responsibility to recognise the points that were made in that Committee's report. I would also like the Minister to clarify the reference in clause 3 to 'approved body' which is denned as meaning a body approved by the Minister for the purpose of the Act, being '(a) an authority of the State; or (b) a local governing body'. Does this mean that a local government authority can make representations to the Federal Government for an allocation of funds under this Bill for a particular project in its area, or that that authority has to go through the State government? On Eyre Peninsula at Penong, in the vicinity of Ceduna, water resource problems are experienced and assistance is required to meet the needs of the people living in that area. 
Another point on which I should like to comment is the need for the continuance of financing for water filtration in Adelaide and in country areas of South Australia. This was mentioned today by  Senator McLaren,  who also drew attention to the fact that there are projects in the near country areas of South Australia that are proposed by the State Government. I believe that that program should continue. However, it is regrettable that we cannot devise a way to provide non-filtered water for gardens and toilets, rather than use filtered water across the board. After all, at this stage, 80 per cent of the water that is filtered in Adelaide will go down the drain or on to the gardens of the metropolis. 
That is a very good suggestion but I suppose one could argue that they may not be as healthy as people may consider them to be. I must also re-emphasise what I have said about the need to give consideration to a water filtration program for the northern Spencer Gulf area. There are very good reasons why the South Australian Government ought to accord that a high priority. I believe that the present Government is committed to an on-going financial program to support water filtration in Adelaide and in South Australia generally. As I said in this chamber yesterday, South Australia's water quality is the worst in Australia. South Australia is the driest state in the driest continent of the world. I conclude on that note, expressing the hope that the Government will realise the importance of the suggestions I have made. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Minister for Home Affairs. I refer to a reported statement that more Australian men are turning to Asia for their brides. Can the Minister say what scientific or social reason is behind this tendency? What credibility can be given to the assertion of Sue Ling, manageress of Unique Agency which is a Melbourne introduction agency, that this is an ocker syndrome? 
I direct my question to  Senator Carrick  partly in his capacity as the Minister representing the Treasurer and partly in his capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I refer to the proposed Redcliff petrochemical industry in South Australia which would provide many job opportunities and certainly would be of great economic benefit to South Australia. Is it a fact that Dow Chemical (Australia) Ltd has undertaken to go ahead with the development of a $800m plant on the condition that the State and Federal governments provide some $2 50m for infrastructure associated with the proposal? As this project has been contemplated in South Australia for more than 10 years and nothing so far has been done, much to the disappointment of the people in the northern part of the State, when will the Government be in a position to make a statement on the matter? Is it a fact that the $250m would be in the form of a loan from the Loan Council which would be repayable and retrievable by the State Government in many ways, for example, through water rates, electricity charges and so on? Will the Minister undertake to emphasise to the Federal Government the importance of such an industry to South Australia with the object of effecting an early decision? 
-As Chairman of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, I seek leave to make a statement on behalf of the Committee concerning its recent visit to the Alligator Rivers Region of the Northern Territory. 
Leave granted. 
Five members of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment visited the Alligator Rivers Region of the Northern Territory between 20 and 22 March 1978. The Region includes stages 1 and 2 of the proposed Kakadu National Park, as well as the projected sites for the Ranger, Jabiluka, Koongarra and Nabarlek uranium mines. The visit was undertaken in pursuance of the Committee 's reference relating to the continuing scrutiny of problems of pollution, including ways and means of preserving the environment from pollution. Motivation for the visit at this time sprang from a reply on 22 February 1978 by  Senator Carrick,  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  to a question by  Senator Mulvihill  about the Kakadu National Park. In his reply  Senator Carrick  spoke of the Government welcoming visits to the region. The immediate purpose of the visit was to familiarise the Committee with features of the Region, including its topography, ecology, natural drainage, Aboriginal sacred sites, points of scenic interest, and places in the neighbourhood of the projected mines and town sites which could be effected by their operation. The visit was arranged in the wet season- I stress that point- so that the Committee could more accurately observe drainage in the Region and put into perspective the siting of projected mining operations with respect to natural water flow. 
The Committee made an aerial survey of the whole Region and can thus affirm that it is one of outstanding scenic granduer The rock formations of the escarpment, with its numerous fine waterfalls, are particularly splendid. The escarpment and its outliers are crisscrossed by deep fissures and gorges with associated caves and rock shelters. Many of these contain fine examples of wall paintings worthy of preservation. This wealth of primitive art is a legacy of the original inhabitants, the Kakadu tribe, which is now dispersed. It is fitting that their memory should be preserved in the name of the national park. 
The Committee took advantage if its visit to hold informal discussions with local representatives of Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd. Pancontinental Mining Ltd and Noranda Australia Limited. Talks were held with representatives of the Department of the Northern Territory, the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and the Northern Land Council. Committee members also met officers of the Commonwealth National Parks and Wildlife Service, the Northern Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission, the Atomic Energy Commission, and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The major topic of discussion was the scope and content of the management plan for the proposed Kakadu National Park and the way in which that would make provision to meet various potential environmental hazards. The Committee stresses that firm dedicated and unambiguous management of the park is essential for successful protection of the Region's environment. The Committee is concerned to ensure that this is achieved from the outset and will, accordingly, be taking a close look at arrangements being made for management of the park and at the way in which these arrangements are reflected in the eventual management plan. 
The Committee intends to revisit the region to assess the effectiveness of the plan after it has been in operation for a time. The Committee is also of the view that Commonwealth legislation required to establish stage 1 of the Kakadu National Park should be introduced as soon as possible. I recognise the co-operation which was given to the Committee by the Department of the Northern Territory. I acknowledge the assistance the Department provided to the Secretary of the Committee,  Mr Peter  Dawe, in arranging the itinerary for the Committee 's visit. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he is able to say whether the issue of an Australian passport can be denied to an Australian citizen living in a foreign country. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory whether his attention has been drawn to Press statements concerning the alleged secret dumping of uranium ore at Snake Creek in the Northern Territory. Can the Minister say whether this operation was carried out in secret? Is it a fact that it was part of a departmental clean-up program to rehabilitate the old Rum Jungle mining site which is considered a disgrace by the Government, mining companies and all concerned with proper environmental management? Did this operation involve the removal to a more satisfactory site of 150 tonnes to 200 tonnes of mullock or mining residue which contained a relatively small amount of uranium ore? Can the Minister say whether radon tests were carried out at the new site after the material was deposited? If they were, what was the result? Is it a fact that samples of the material were sent to Adelaide for analysis? Can the Minister say whether the Department has received a report from Adelaide concerning this assay? If it has, can the Minister give the Senate details of the result? As I understand that the $300,000 allocated by the Federal Government for this clean-up program has been fully expended, will the Government give urgent consideration to providing extra funds to enable the total rehabilitation of the Rum Jungle area? 
-I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I ask: Is there any substance in the statement reported in today's  Age  newspaper, that many marriages unnecessarily end in divorce because the Family Court does not refer these couples to marriage guidance counsellors? 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the fact that at a dinner held in London recently to mark the centenary of Andre Simon, the foundation  President  of Britain's Wine and Food Society, an Australian red wine, Lake's Folly Cabernet 1968 was acclaimed to be a better wine - 
-I understand that it is a Victorian wine, which is most unusual. Is the Minister aware that it was acclaimed to be a better wine than the top French claret- I might seek  Senator Wheeldon  's guidance on the pronunciation Gruaud La Rose 1967 Bordeaux? Is the Minister aware that the wellknown English wine consultant, Serena Sutcliffe, has referred to the Australian wine as one of the top 10 reds in the world? In view of this magnificent international acceptance of an Australian wine, which is only one of many of similar quality, will the Minister ask his colleague in another place to investigate ways and means of providing finance to the wine-making industry or the Australian Wine Board to promote export sales of our red wines? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to an article in today's Adelaide  Advertiser  stating that 53 Noarlunga meat workers have been retrenched at the request of their union, the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union. Is the Minister aware of this action and the statement by the managing director of the company that the Federal Secretary of the AMIEU had told him in Canberra on 19 April this year that the men would be better off receiving unemployment benefits than working a 2-day or 3-day week? I understand that the union contends that the daily hired workers were earning less than the unemployment benefits for which they were ineligible because they were employed. Is the Minister aware that last year the meat workers were prepared to work on a short week basis? I ask the Minister: What is the Government's attitude to this move and to the precedent that this action may set? 
Is the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs aware of the anxiety expressed by local government associations for .the Federal Government to implement its election promise of December last to increase local government's share of personal income tax receipts from 1.52 per cent to 2 per cent? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that unless the increase is introduced next financial year, local government in South Australia will lose $10m over the three-year period to 1980-81? In view of this urgency, will the Minister stress to the Government the importance of making this increase available to local government in the next Budget? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether he is aware of the concern expressed by- the wine making industry over the inaction of the Government in reintroducing section 3 1a of the Income Tax Act in accordance with an undertaking given in 1 974. Is the Minister further aware that had this undertaking been honoured the wineries would have been able to process much of the grape tonnage which constituted the surplus in the 1978 vintage? Will the Government now give favourable consideration to introducing this measure in the forthcoming Budget? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. I refer to the recent spillage of distillate into Larrys Creek in the vicinity of the Tidbinbilla tracking station. I understand that it has flowed into the Mumimbidgee system and will end up in the Burrinjuck Dam. Can the Minister say how this spillage occurred? Who was responsible for it? What action has the Government taken to clear the river of the oil slick? What was the cost of cleaning-up operations? Is the Government able to recover that cost from those responsible for the spillage? Can the Minister say whether this spillage has threatened fish and other wildlife in the vicinity of the river? Will the action taken by the Government prevent further danger to wildlife? Finally, what has been done to warn the public of the dangers involved in drinking the water or using it for washing or for recreational purposes? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of the case of an age pensioner, as cited in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 1 7 April, who is residing permanently in a nursing home- I know that this is not an isolated case; there must be many thousands of these people- whose only income is the pension and the special nursing home grant totalling $108.60 a fortnight, which is $14.40 a fortnight short of the nursing home costs? Can the Minister say whether the balance of this payment is the responsibility of the next of kin? Also, can the Minister inform me what happens in the case of a person who has no next of kin and no other source of income? 
I want to put a few thoughts to the Senate on this Bill. I certainly share the concern that has been expressed by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber that the Government has not seen fit to provide any finance to the States for new plantings for what amounts to the next five years. In view of the Forestry and Wood-based Industries Development Conference that was held some years ago, which pointed out the need for more frequent reviews of forestry plantings, I think the decision of the Government to proceed with a Bill providing only for maintenance was not well thought out. It is my view that the Government must reconsider this matter. 
-lt is all right about you. I am just making some constructive comments on the Bill. 
That is for sure. Treasury often puts a dead hand on some of these departments, and it is particularly unfortunate when in our view it is unnecessary and we ought to be looking to improving our resources in this way. After the debate in this House commenced I had an opportunity to discuss the matter with the Forestry Manager of Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd,  Mr Bill  Meadows, whom I met during the woodchip inquiry.  Mr Meadows  happened to be in Canberra on the day after the Bill was introduced in this place. He was attending a meeting of the Joint Committee on Forest Industries which, as honourable senators know, was established by the Australian Forestry Council. Members of the Committee include representatives of all sections of the forestry industry who are interested in the subject with which we are dealing, the forestry commissions from each State and the Commonwealth, and bodies such as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. 
In my office in Parliament House on 3 May I expressed to those people the view that it was important for the Government to reconsider its attitude with respect to new plantings, in view of the unemployment problems that its decision could create. In my view, the decision was a retrograde step. However, the thoughts expressed to me by  Mr Meadows  and  Mr Unwin,  who is the Forestry Commissioner from Tasmania, were these: First of all, they agreed that new plantings ought to be contemplated at some future time, but they advised strongly against holding up the Bill because they required the maintenance money and any delay could cause unemployment problems. For the information of honourable senators, I will read the confirmation of the discussion I had with those two gentlemen, which came forward as a recommendation and an endorsement from the Joint Committee on Forest Industries. 
I am trying to support you,  Senator, and  I hope you will see the sense in what I am saying. For the information of the Senate, the document states: 
The Joint Committee on Forest Industries wishes to confirm advice given you today by Messrs Unwin and Meadows, that it is our opinion that delay in provision of funds for plantation maintenance would cause difficulties in some areas and reduction of employment. 
The members of JCFI are however firmly of the opinion that the question of Commonwealth financial support for maintaining the previous level of new plantation establishment should be reviewed at the earliest possible time. In this context there have been many changes in circumstances since the last review which review indicated a diminished need for such support. 
In the wider context of forestry development you were advised that the Australian Forestry Council, fully supported by industry, has scheduled a second FORWOOD Conference for 1980 or 198 1 aimed to provide an all embracing review of the Forest Products Industry in Australia and to propose future planning requirements. 
I think that indicates that the forestry industry and the forestry commissions throughout the country believe that the Government ought to be looking to reviving its interest in new plantings. 
-That may be so. You have already said that. I will go along with that. Then we could have had all this business thoroughly examined. By now we could have been approving a Bill which contained some reference to plantings. I think the Opposition amendment is a fairly weak answer to our problem. 
I would like to see proper terms of reference drawn up by people who are interested in this matter. I would like to see the Bill referred to the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources. I think that is the appropriate course of action which we should take. If we were to go along with the idea of referring this Bill to the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment or to the National Resources Committee, we would not achieve our purpose because no mention of new plantings is made in the Bill. So I do not think there is any purpose in taking that course of action. That is why I have resiled from my original stance on the matter. 
-That is right; 1 go along with that idea completely. I would like the Opposition to consider what  Senator Townley  has said, in the light of the need for the Government to review its attitude towards new plantings. I know that the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  will convey that concern to his colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I hope the Government will review the matter very urgently and that, in the near future, it will look at the possibility of bringing in another Bill which provides for new plantings. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the overtime ban imposed on 9 March, some nine weeks ago, by 450 mail sorters in Adelaide as part of a dispute, which began in October last year, over the payment of a tax-free meal allowance of $3.90 when overtime is worked. Is the Minister aware that last week Australia Post's public relations officer said that the backlog in mail would not be cleared for another six weeks? In the light of this, I ask the Minister whether he is aware that two weeks ago- seven weeks after the bans were imposed- the State manager of Australia Post said that 15 extra workers, as recommended by Commissioner Clarkson of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, had been employed a fortnight earlier and that it would take a further three weeks to train them fully. That means that this extra stafF would have been available early next week. In view of this, can the Minister say why the Australia Post public relations officer has now said that these extra personnel who would assist in clearing the congestion of mail will not be available for a further four weeks? Will the Minister investigate the reason why these confused statements have been made? 
I listened with a great amount of interest to  Senator Wriedt  's contribution to the debate and I had the distinct feeling that he had his tongue in his cheek. After all, the present Government is proceeding with a course of action that was set in train by the Whitlam Government and, of course, endorsed by the honourable senator who has just resumed his seat. In embarking on that course of action the Government has an obligation to the people of Australia because the nuclear industry in Australia will provide no fewer than 10,000 jobs directly and indirectly and will produce export earnings of about $25,000m over a period of 25 to 30 years. I thought that the Opposition would have been endorsing the Government's action at this time, particularly in view of the fact that the Whitlam Government chose to support the Ranger project which is sponsored by Peko Mines Ltd and Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd to the tune of  72lA  per cent of the capital investment for a return of profit of something like 50 per cent. So I find the Opposition's attitude quite incredible. 
Of course, I can understand the temerity of  Senator Wriedt  in adopting in the Senate tonight a stance which is quite opposite to the stance he would have been adopting if he were still in government. Probably that is the reason why he chose to attack  Senator Lewis.  That is the only motivation for which I can excuse him. Not only did the Australian Labor Party in government support uranium mining but also the  President  of the Australian Labor Party rendered his support to it in principle only last year. At the present time we are dealing with a matter that is quite significant not only to Australia but also to the world. After all, the world is facing a crisis in energy and the world is looking to Australia, which has an abundant supply of uranium, to help to form a bridge in the energy gap which will be created by the rapidly exhausting fossil fuel supply. Therefore it is very important that the Parliament of Australia passes the Bills that we are contemplating at the present time and enables the Ranger project to proceed before the next wet season. There is an element of urgency about this legislation. 
Much has been said during the debate so far, and it appears to me to be notable that speakers on the Government side have introduced matters of substance backed up, in my view, by a factual analysis of the important aspects of the implications of uranium as an energy source to Australia and to a world facing a rapidly increasing demand for energy and a critical - 
The honourable senator introduces a matter which happens to be very dear to my heart. I know a little more about solar energy than she does. Obviously it will be 30 years or so before solar energy is developed to a degree at which it can replace the conventional source of energy to stimulate globes such as the ones we have in this chamber tonight. It is all very well to talk about solar energy as a direct energy source. I applaud the suggestion that we ought to be encouraging everyone in Australia to have in their homes a direct solar source of heating water for domestic requirements, but it is a different matter to introduce solar energy to exploit the hydrogen economy, to which I think the honourable senator was probably referring. Many scientists would support what I suggest is the truth, and that is that it will be perhaps 20 or 30 years before we can replace to any substantial extent the fossil fuels in that way. 
Finance has nothing to do with it. The Americans are providing an incredible amount of money for research in this area. I applaud them for doing so, but it is not as simple as that. There are many reasons why the honourable senator's argument can be completely destroyed. Another thing is that we ought to be looking towards the time when nuclear fusion replaces nuclear fission. When that happens, I think the world's problems as far as energy is concerned will be largely solved. But that process is not easy. Nuclear fusion can be applied now in a laboratory situation, but industrially it requires heavy water to be heated to an extent of one million degrees centigrade to introduce nuclear fusion. That is a very difficult thing to pursue. It is certainly occupying the minds of scientists in Australia. Even  Sir Mark  Oliphant, who agrees that this is the ultimate answer to the world's energy- I believe that that is true- says that it will take probably 50 years before that source of energy is available to the world. So we have to provide this bridging source of energy, and the only answer that we can come up with is that nuclear energy is the bridging source of energy until the alternative sources are perfected. 
Let me revert to what I was trying to say. What we on this side of the chamber have said is backed up by a factual analysis of the aspects and implications of uranium as a bridging source of energy. We have stressed its importance to Australia in providing job opportunities and its importance to the world which is facing a rapidly increasing demand for energy and a critical decrease in the supply of conventional fossil fuel. The speeches from the Opposition have been characterised by inaccuracies, half truths and emotional nonsense. That was brought home to me very clearly by a recent visit to the Atomic Energy Commission at Lucas Heights. There I met scientists and was able to examine the work they were doing and to listen not to half truths or emotional nonsense but to evidence based on scientific fact. 
They would not even know who you are, because you really do not count a great deal in New South Wales. What I was trying to suggest objectively is that before I visited the Alligator Rivers area I visited the Atomic Energy Commission. There I found 320 scientists from all disciplines who were very concerned about environmental aspects. They were very concerned about the outlook for the particular area with which we have been dealing tonight. They had set about environmental monitoring over the preceeding five or more years to determine the way in which mineral development and mining operations should take place. I believe that I learned a lot from them. Anyone who has any doubts about the nuclear question ought to go to Lucas Heights and talk to people who know a lot more about the scientific facts than people who pose in the Press-- 
You ought to be ashamed of yourself. 

 - Senator Gietzelt is slightly upset about my remark that this Government is pursuing a course of action that was set in train by the Whitlam Government. An agreement was signed by  Mr Whitlam, Dr Cairns  and other people, and the Government is pursuing that course of action. 
-Senator Gietzelt talks about the Ranger inquiry, but he has not studied it properly. 
I am glad  Senator Thomas  reminded me of that. It could be an added incentive for  Senator Gietzelt  to interject persistently. I remind him that the Government did not take any legislative action until the two Fox reports were presented to it. What we are discussing tonight is based entirely on the recommendations that were put before us as a result of the two inquiries authorised by the Whitlam Government. I can understand the attitude of the Opposition to the point I have made. 
I return to the irrelevant and emotional attitude of the Opposition to these matters. I suggest that we ought to be considering a little more the advantages of the exploitation of the vast reserves of this particular commodity in Australia. I think that between 20 per cent to 25 per cent of the world's uranium is in this country. That is a large proportion of this resource. I think we must regard ourselves as being somewhat responsible for providing energy to countries which do not have our natural advantages. Therefore, I think we are obligated to allow these Bills to pass as quickly as possible in order that we can pursue the economic advantages overseas and provide other countries without our natural advantages with a resource that is most important to their development. 
I refer to a statement made by Britain's Foreign and Commonwealth Secretary,  Mr David  Owen, who is, of course, a Labour Minister. When addressing the ministerial meeting of the Conference on International Economic Cooperation in Paris on 30 May last year, he said: 
The community has a deep commitment to constant progress in permanent dialogue between industrialised and developing countries of which the CIEC is an outstanding example. We are totally dedicated to the elimination of poverty and disease and to the growing world-wide co-operation which is necessary to achieve that aim. 
The problems of the world 's poor cannot be solved without the active and wholehearted participation of the wealthier countries. Quite apart from the moral imperative, there is an economic imperative which binds us together. Developing countries need the co-operation of international  insitutions  as well as developed countries to finance their development. 
Balance of payments problems affect rich and poor countries, deficits must be financed until they can be corrected if world trade is to prosper for us all. Industrialised countries need markets for their products in developing countries as well as raw materials supplies for them. 
Developing and industrialised countries alike need increasing resources of energy. A world shortage of energy will not increase wealth but increase poverty. 
That is a significant statement coming from a British Labour Minister. He continued: 
A sharp jump in energy prices can produce inflation and recession affecting every nation. 
Eighteen months ago, no comprehensive intergovernmental discussions on energy problems had ever taken place. Now, as a result of the detailed discussions, we have achieved far greater mutual understanding of the problems we all face. We have agreed that it is important for the economic well-being and progress of all countries that adequate and stable supplies of energy should be available. We have also agreed that appropriate measures should be taken to assist developing countries to develop and diversify their energy resources, by improving the flow of  investemnt  funds and technical assistance. 
I think those words ought to be regarded as important in the context of this debate. I think we should reflect also on what  Mr Dunstan  has said. 
I do not know him very well, but they tell me he is the Premier of South Australia. He is not a very well known personality, but at least he seems to be adopting a liberal stance in America at the present time. I heard him on  A.M.  this morning, and he was encouraging foreign investment in Australia, particularly multinational investment in South Australia. I found that quite incredible, in view of the fact that  Mr Dunstan  has turned his back on the importance of industrial development in South Australia. At one time, not very long ago- a matter of 18 months or so- South Australia was taking the lead in uranium enrichment. In fact, in 1975 the State Government of 
South Australia incredibly enough established a uranium enrichment committee and it made persistent representations to Canberra to ensure that the first uranium enrichment plant would be established in the northern Spencer Gulf area. 

 - Senator Young states that he suspects that they are still working behind the scenes. 
I have the evidence. The  chairman  of that committee is  Mr Bill  Davies, who was in the Premier's Department. I understand that a few people in South Australia who are on that committee are completely frustrated because of the inhibitions placed upon that committee by the ridiculous attitude taken by the Labor Party at its conference in Perth. The Labor Party said that we ought to have a moratorium. 
The honourable senator talks about sacrificing lives. It should be recognised that a lot of nonsense about loss of life has been spoken on this subject. People do not regard radiation or nuclear medicine as having an effect on the saving of life or the prolonging of life. That has been the attitude in the world for a long time. People have X-rays without any trepidation at all, yet X-rays subject the body to incredible doses of radiation. People accept that.  Senator Young  gave the example today of people flying in aircraft at 35,000 feet. Those people subject their bodies to a lot of radiation. We accept that. At the Atomic Energy Commission at Lucas Heights over lunch one of the scientists commented that the glass of wine that  Senator Mulvihill  was drinking at the time was radiating more radiation per moment - 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs or as the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I inform the Minister that I have been given to understand from a reliable source that countries such as Zambia, Tanzania, Botswana and Zaire are actively conducting substantial trade with Rhodesia and South Africa. Can the Minister say whether that is the fact? If so, can he ascertain the volume of such trade? Does this not seem to be incompatible with the current political stance being adopted by these front line African States and the fact that these countries were most vocal in their demands that other countries of the world should apply sanctions against Rhodesia and South Africa? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware of an advertisement that appeared in the Adelaide  Advertiser  yesterday, authorised by the Australian Roads Federation, headed 'Stuart Highway our national disgrace'? Has he noted that the advertisement included comments reportedly made by a Government spokesman during the last election campaign to the effect that he believed it necessary to identify a special fund to make allocations specifically for the reconstruction of the Stuart Highway? Is it a fact that the Federal Government provided a special grant to South Australia some time ago to enable the Eyre Highway to be completed? In view of this precedent, will the Government give favourable consideration to allocating a special grant in the forthcoming Budget to accelerate construction of this highway which is so important to the mutual development of South Australia and the Northern Territory? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) How many factories are engaged in building railway rolling stock. 
Where are these factories situated. 
How many persons do these factories employ. 
What is the rate of unemployment in each area. 
What quantity of rolling stock in each State is considered obsolete. 
What quantity of rolling stock in each State requires renovation. 
What is the immediate requirement for rolling stock in each State and for the Australian National Railways. 
Could rolling stock be more economically produced in one factory 
If such rolling stock were built at Whyalla in South Australia, what would be the anticipated employment opportunities. 
What would be the effect on employment in other areas. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. Does the Government recognise that there has been a tragic downturn in industrial development in South Australia? Does the Government realise that tremendous economic and employment benefits would be provided by the establishment of a petrochemical industry at Redcliff in the northern Spencer Gulf area? Does the Minister recall that on numerous occasions I have pressed for this petrochemical industry to be established and that several months ago I asked the Government to give favourable consideration to approving a loan amounting to about $250m to the South Australian Government for the infrastructure associated with the project? In view of the serious industrial situation in South Australia, will the Minister ask the Treasurer to give urgent attention to this request? 
I wish to talk about the amendment to clause 10 which has been moved by the Opposition and which I oppose. I refer to what  Senator Ryan  said a little earlier concerning Mark Oliphant 's comments about - 
-That is right.  Sir Mark  Oliphant happens to be a friend of mine. He is on - 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! I am not going to allow a general debate to develop on this matter. 
I could almost claim to have been misrepresented,  Mr Chairman,  but I am not doing that. 
I support the Bill. I also support the amendments which I understand the Government will be putting forward at a later stage. We have a number of amendments. I certainly reject the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. When the legislation was first drafted I certainly had my doubts about the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill because very little regard had been paid to the role of the Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission. In fact, there was no mention of this body in the Bill at all. I now notice that it is the intention of the Government to repair what I believe to be an oversight and that is that the Commission will be involved in the day-to-day management of the Kakadu National Park and that consultations will be carried out on a regular basis between the Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service and the Northern Territory people. I think this is highly desirable. I also was very pleased when the Government appointed  Mr Bob  Fry as the supervising scientist. 
I have had the opportunity together with members of the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment to discuss his role as he sees it in the supervision of this very important national park area.  Mr Bob  Fry, I believe, is well qualified to oversee environmental matters associated with the park and certainly with the mining that hopefully will be taking place in the near future. He was educated at the same school as I was- the Unley High School. I know the gentleman personally and I can vouch for his integrity and his capacity to be able to deal with environmental matters associated with the Bills under discussion. He has been very prominent in the Australian Atomic Energy Commission at Lucas Heights. He was a senior officer there. He has chaired many international committees involved with safety management and technology associated with the nuclear industry. 

 Mr Fry spent quite a long period of time in the United States of America where he worked in the radiological department of a prominent hospital. He is well informed on matters relating to possible hazards to human beings in this important area of energy development. I congratulate the Minister on choosing a man of the calibre of  Mr Fry. His  department already has a laboratory in the Ranger area and the Bill itself provides for the establishment of an Office of Supervising Scientist and a Scientific Research Institute. From what  Mr Fry  has told me they will be comprehensive and will comprise personnel who will be very capable of dealing with matters and safeguarding the environment in the Kakadu National Park region. 
I was very impressed when I visited the Lucas Heights establishment of the Atomic Energy Commission to learn that the Commission itself has been studying the environment of the Kakadu area over a period of years and certainly recognises the fragility of the environment, particularly in the wet season when the floods can occur. Certainly the Commission is very conscious of the need for proper management as far as the mining companies are concerned to ensure that pollution will not result from future mining operations that have been proposed. 
The previous  speaker, Senator Ryan,  referred to the emission of radon resulting from the mining of uranium. It always amazes me that people tend to over-react in this situation because radon itself dissipates very rapidly in the environment and remains for only a very short period of time. The radon liberated during coal mining and superphosphate mining, for example, is far in excess of the quantity of radon that is liberated as a result of uranium mining. But we do not seem to worry too much about that. We seem to accept that as being OK. However, as soon as someone mentions nuclear energy the Opposition and the opponents of this bridging source of energy tend to become very emotional about it. They disregard other hazards associated with conventional mining. That ought to be borne in mind when we are discussing this subject. 
I said earlier that the Government was proposing amendments. These will largely satisfy my original objections to the Bill. However, in the future it may be necessary for the Government to re-examine the Bill itself. Should there be any problems associated with the joint management program in this area I am sure that the Government will recognise the need to introduce future amendments if necessary. I was reading a book the other day on the question of nuclear energy. 
It was written by Petr Beckmann. It is entitled The Hazards of Not Going Nuclear'. I found some of the points made quite interesting. 
-He is Petr Beckmann. I understand that he is from the University of Pittsburgh. He is a reasonably competent chap. 
-Sir Mark Oliphant does not regard the mining or processing of uranium to be hazardous.  His  view is that there are no problems. 
I have spoken to him. 
He is on record as saying that there are no problems associated with the mining and processing of uranium. 
-I shall quote Petr Beckmann. He said: 
They Tear this danger not because it is great- 
He is referring to radioactive waste et cetera-  but because it is new. They are used to millions losing their lives in wars, to thousands losing them in famines, and to hundreds losing them in railroad and airplane disasters, mine explosions, floods and hurricanes. But radioactive poisons underground, threatening somehow to get into ones food- no matter how absurdly small the probability, it's new, it's a danger that was not there before. 
The hell it wasn 't. There are some 30 trillion cancer doses under the surface of the United States- the deposits of uranium and its daughters. They are not sealed in glass, they are not in salt formations, they are not deliberately put where it is safest; they occur in random places where Mother Nature decided to put them. 
From the large amount of information on the presence of various radioactive isotopes in different parts of the human body, plus some other well known information, it has been found that the mean number of Americans killed by ingesting uranium or its daughters from natural sources is 12 per year. 
On the subject of plutonium  Mr Beckmann  said: 
Plutonium is often called the most toxic substance known to man. 
Plutonium is toxic, and must be handled with care, but the rest is just horror propaganda. It is primarily an alpha emitter, which means that its radiation is absorbed in the air after a few inches, and a sheet of paper is sufficient to shield oneself against its radiation at close quarters. It is far from being the most toxic substance known to man. When eaten or absorbed in the bloodstream, it is 10 times less toxic than lead arsenate and hundreds of thousands of times less toxic than some biological poisons such as diptheria of botulism toxin. Caffeine is only 10 times less toxic than plutonium. Relative toxicity is measured by comparing the weights of 50  per  cent lethal doses given to the same type of mammal. The  50 per cent lethal dose ' is the amount that will kill half of the experimental animals. 
However, though ingestion of plutonium or its absorption through the skin is dangerous, the real danger of plutonium is breathing it in the form of fine dust particles. Plutonium is insoluble in water, and fine particles may stay long in the lung, eventually causing lung cancer. Even so, this danger, which undoubtedly is a serious one, has been exaggerated beyond all reasonable bounds. There are radioactive substances produced not by the Pentagon, but by Mother Nature, which are far more dangerous than plutonium. 
I think people ought to start reading books like that to inform themselves on the relative toxic effects emanating from natural sources. Perhaps we would then be concerned about breathing the air in Canberra. I said to the Minister that in the light of experience it may be necessary to review the Bill and perhaps bring forward other amendments. I am satisfied largely with the proposed amendments and I support the Bill. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. I refer to the considerable publicity that has been given to the herbicides 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T and the alleged dangers to people from these herbicides. Can the Minister assure the Senate that the properties of these chemicals have been carefully examined, especially in regard to, firstly, the possible long term biological effects on humans due to the accumulation and persistence of chemicals in fatty tissue and, secondly, the carcinogenic and mutogenic effects of low toxic doses of such chemicals over long periods? What mechanism exists for monitoring these effects? 
-I refer to the definition 'prescribed substance'. It seems to me to be quite a broad definition and it appears to me that perhaps an attempt could have been made to specify cut-off levels in regulations. It occurs to me that this definition is broad enough to cover things such as beach sands and other materials that could appear in association with radioactive substances. I ask the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  whether any thought has been given to prescribing cut-off levels of the type I have suggested to clarify this definition. I know that the State of South Australia has expressed some difficulty with this aspect. I ask the Minister to respond. 
This part of the Bill does not appear to take account of existing and relevant State legislation and procedures. Am I correct in assuming that if the Commonwealth intervenes in any way with respect to State legislation there are no procedures for reviewing this intervention and allowing the State legislation to come into operation? 
I had some concern about the original clause in the Bill because it seemed to me that it gave the Governor-General power to make regulations or to give effect to or to secure the observance of a code of practice in a State. I understand that originally the States had six months to make some comment on the matter or to implement it. I was a little worried about the genuineness of the intention to consult with the States but this amendment, as I see it, repairs that situation to a certain degree. As far as I am concerned, the clause will come more into line with what ought to happen. So far as the nuclear codes themselves are concerned, does the Commonwealth Government envisage safeguards that comply with international standards? In fact does it also have in mind going further than the international safeguards standards in many respects? 
Let me re-emphasise what the Minister said to members of the Opposition. This Bill merely establishes the mechanism whereby consultation can be carried out between the Commonwealth and the States to establish the nuclear codes. The South Australian Government complained that this mechanism was not clearly identified in the Bill as such. I believe the amendment satisfies that complaint to a large extent. I did not intend speaking again on this matter, but  Senator Mulvihill  suggested that these codes would be arranged behind closed doors. 
I suggest that the honourable senator, whom I regard quite highly particularly in environmental matters, should read clause 9 of the Bill which allows for these various codes to be disallowed. The clause provides quite clearly that a copy of an order can be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after the making of the order. 
And can be severally disallowed as well. It will give the Parliament an opportunity to exert some overriding authority in this matter. 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Finance to a statement appearing in the Adelaide  News  today that the Minister for Finance in the forthcoming Budget will recommend certain cuts in capital works programs and that these could affect the Commonwealth funding of the Adelaide water filtration program. Does the Government recognise the importance of this project to South Australia, which is not only the driest State but also has the poorest quality water in Australia? Recognising this fact, will the Government reconsider any proposal that would threaten the financing of this important project? 
I join in the debate for a short period to congratulate my colleague  Senator Rae  on what I believe to be a fine speech demonstrating clearly the need to preserve the integrity of the Senate and the interests of the smaller States in particular. I believe in and support the view that the representatives who are sent to the Constitutional Convention ought to be representatives of the Parliament who are duly elected by both sides of the Parliament to represent our interests in what I believe could become a quite significant quorum and not representatives of the Executive. I, too, was quite disappointed that Subcommittee D had no Senate representative when matters relating to this chamber were discussed. 
As my colleague reminds me, the whole future of this chamber was discussed. In regard to the rejection of Supply, I believe that this chamber ought to have that ultimate sanction over the Executive, irrespective of which party it represents. But I also believe, in a constructive sense, that the Constitution could be changed to compel the Senate to face the people at the same time as the House of Representatives in the event of the Senate's exercising of its justifiable right to reject Supply.  Mr President,  you may recall that I was one of those who put on the brakes when the Opposition of the day was moving towards the rejection of Supply. I do not believe this chamber should take that action unless very severe circumstances arise. I rose at this time to support and congratulate my colleague on what I believed to be a very significant speech in defence of the Senate. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that a joint working party has submitted a report concerning a merit promotion system for research scientists within the Australian Defence Scientific Service? Is the Minister aware of the low morale among research scientists particularly at the Weapons Research Establishment in South Australia due to the current rundown and consequent uncertainty with respect to career prospects? In view of this fact, can the Minister say when the report was presented to the Government? When will it be made public and when will the Government be in a position to make a decision on the recommendations contained in it? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I refer to the report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, which the Minister stated he has read. Has he noted under the heading 'South Australian Study ' on page 45 that it is stated: 
In support of its aim for industrial development in South Australia, the South Australian Government in 1 975 set up a Committee on Uranium Enrichment. This Committee was charged with preparing a report on the general applicability and feasibility of establishing commercial plants for the manufacture of uranium hexafluoride and for the enrichment of uranium on a South Australian site. 
Is it a fact that the Committee, which is still in existence, has presented three interim reports on this proposal to the South Australian Government? As this project would provide a tremendous stimulus to sadly flagging industrial development in South Australia, can the Minister say whether  Mr Dunstan  has abandoned the race for such a plant and is allowing the enterprising Court Government in Western Australia to beat him to the punch on the establishment of a uranium enrichment facility? 
-I want to refer to the Department of Administrative Services and in particular to the salaries of electorate secretaries and research assistants of members and senators of this Parliament. Before doing so let me reply to  Senator McLaren  and  Senator Douglas  McClelland. This afternoon I heard  Senator McLaren  accuse the Senate of being a rubber stamp, but earlier he extolled the virtues of the Senate and referred to an occasion when several honourable senators from this side of the House chose to exercise a point of view which was different from that held by the Government. 
-We know about that. The honourable senator quoted it. We on this side of the chamber, being afforded independence by our party, have the right to stand up here and say: 'The Government is wrong. We are not going along with it'. We have the guts and the right to stand up and be counted, but you have the incredible - 

 - Mr Chairman, I know that you understand the point I am making and that is that the Senate is an independent House of review, and so it should be. I hear members of the Opposition in this place say, with confounded impertinence, that this is a rubber stamp, when they have no rights in government to exercise a different point of view, and I become almost sick in my stomach to listen to them. That really makes me cross. It is a credit to honourable senators on this side of the chamber that we have that capacity. Members of the Liberal Party and the 
National Country Party have the right to disagree and to exert an independent point of view. That is what the Senate is all about. These hypocrites on the Opposition side - 
-I shall rephrase it. These people who stand up in this - 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  But I do become somewhat irritated when subservient senators on the Opposition benches - 
Subservient to the executive of your Party, to the trades hall - 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  I want to quieten down a little bit because I realise,  Mr Chairman,  that you have a responsibility as  Chairman.  I like to exercise my sense of responsibility in this place. That is why there have been occasions- more than one- when I have chosen to differ with my Party. It has not done me any harm. It has enhanced the Liberal Party in the eyes of the public and it has condemned the Labor Party in the eyes of the public because its members have no right at all to exercise an independent point of view. 
-I had to reply to that,  Mr Chairman,  because you allowed the Opposition speakers considerable latitude when they accused the Senate of being a rubber stamp. I am trying to demonstrate that there is no need for the Senate to be a rubber stamp. If individual senators representing their States in this place are prepared to get up and put a point of view, that demonstrates that this Senate is a genuine house of review. If every honourable senator did that it would be an entirely different chamber. 
I must reply to that. 
-I have to go back to the referenda stages of the debate and remind - 
You may,  Mr Chairman,  and I respect the reprimand. But I do hope that you will not allow me to be inflamed any more by the subservient senators of the Opposition. 

 - Mr Chairman, I certainly would have no desire to do that, but I do hope that the Opposition senators will heed your advice to me and will not tend to inflame any further the independent senators on this side of the chamber. I should like now to revert to discussing the item about which I am concerned, namely, the item dealing with the salaries of the staff of honourable senators. I raised this matter during the hearings of Senate Estimates Committee A. I want to reiterate in the Committee of the Whole what I had to say then. I remind the Minister  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the Government of their obligation to provide our staff in our electorate offices with sufficient salary to reimburse them for the responsibilities they undertake. During the hearings of Estimates Committee A I asked the Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Withers,  whether ministerial staffs were afforded overtime payments. I was informed that that was not the case. I have since been told that some people on ministerial staffs seem to be receiving overtime payments. So I asked the Minister to have another look at that and to tell me whether in fact that is correct. During the Estimates Committee hearings I raised the point that our electorate offices in our States are extremely busy. The only way in which we can recompense our staff members for extra work which they do to serve our electorates is to give them time off in lieu of overtime. 
I do not take any notice of the inane interjections, which are frequently untrue, which come from the other side of the chamber. I am trying to reinforce the argument I have put that our staffs deserve a better deal. For example, there are five State electorate offices in the electorate of Barker. The electorate of the honourable member for Barker,  Mr Porter,  extends beyond the five State electorates. Within his electorate there are five State electorate secretaries who are attracting a combined salary of $50,000 a year to serve about 20,000 people in those State electorates. Yet the combined salaries of the officers in the electorate office of the Federal member total about $20,000 a year and those people have to serve an electorate comprising about 60,000 people. 
I think the situation with respect to salaries is unfair. In the electorate of Grey for example - 
I believe that the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  does live in his electorate. 
I am trying to be patient with the interjections,  Mr Chairman,  according to your advice. 
I suggest that honourable senators opposite quieten down because I am trying to put a case, not for the Government senators or the Government Federal members alone, but for every member of this Parliament. I think it is about time the Commonwealth Public Service Board recognised the importance of increasing the salaries of the staffs of honourable senators. I remind honourable senators that at the present time the secretaries of State members of parliament have a submission before the State Public Service Board. I understand that they are going to receive a considerable increase in their salaries. Their old salary was about $10,127 a year, only about $300 less than the salary of our secretaries. 
I think this is an indictment of the Federal Government and of the ministry which controls this area. I think we have to make our voices heard in this place if we are going to ensure that our secretaries and our research officers are paid a salary which is commensurate with the responsibilities they hold. I know that  Senator Douglas  McClelland supported this view during the Estimates Committee A hearings. I believe that  Senator McLaren  supported it as well. I hope that is recognised by the Minister and by the Government and that something is done by the Government to ensure that the Commonwealth Public Service Board recognises the capabilities of these staff members and their value to the electorate. 
I am very interested in what  Senator Georges  had to say. I want to refer now to the Department of Administrative Services again and to remind the Committee of what I was saying earlier and why  Senator Georges  was so upset I was just demonstrating that on this side of the House we are not rubber stamps and we are capable of exercising independence which is a point of jealousy as far as the Opposition is concerned. I remind the Committee of what  Senator Withers  said with respect to senatorial staff in our electorate offices. As recorded at page 1 75 of the  Hansard  record, when I raised this question, he said: 
The whole problem is where does the staff of senators and members fit within the schematic arrangement of the Public Service. In fact, the Coombs report said that they ought to come right out of the Public Service and have nothing to do with the Public Service Board because they do not fit within the framework. They are a peculiarity or an oddity. 
I do not know whether I would agree with the oddity part of it but they have a peculiar position to fulfil. I think that  Senator Knight  mentioned that point when he was referring to the Parliamentary Reporting Staff. I would even go further and say that our parliamentary staff here have that same peculiarity and ought to be considered in a different way from ordinary public servants because they have a peculiar function to perform and a very significant one. I often feel that the Parliament lets the side down, lets the people who support us down, when it does not recognise that. We should recognise what the Minister said in answer to my question, that there ought to be a special category. 
I go on to refer to a line dealing with the Parliament. I shall refer specifically to the secretarial staff of Senate standing committees. Here we have quite a problem. We have developed a committee system here which requires expert officers to advise us, expert people, well trained, with degrees who service the committees. Yet we are faced with the problem of a brain drain- not to within the Senate staff or the parliamentary staff but a brain drain from the Senate staff outside into other Public Service areas. That has been evident in recent times when we have lost the services of experienced secretaries of standing committees simply because we have not been paying them enough. I believe that if we upgraded the senior secretaries of standing committees to class 1 1 or even higher we would retain that expertise that is necessary to service the committees of the Senate that have proved to be valuable in the advice they have put forward to the Government of this country. 

 Senator Rae brought out this point himself. He suggested that there is a case for a special category to be evolved not only for senators ' staff but for the staff of the Parliament generally. In conversation with me he suggested that perhaps, dealing with electorate secretaries in particular, senators and members ought to be given a sum of money that they can spend as they wish- up to, say, $30,000- to employ one, two or three people with that amount to serve their offices according to their wishes. It should be left to the members of Parliament to assess the value of the staff that they have and the salary that they ought to be paid. I believe that suggestion ought to be considered by the Government. I would appreciate the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  conveying that suggestion to the Cabinet, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or whoever is responsible in this area. I reinforce what has already been said by  Senator Knight  and  Senator Douglas  McClelland when referring to the  Hansard  reporting staff. They made a point that  Hansard  reporters ought to be treated in some special way as well. I support those views and I ask the Government, through you,  Mr Chairman,  to give that serious and favourable consideration. 
-I want to refer to the Estimates of the Postal and Telecommunications Department. I refer to the extension of television services to the more sparsely populated areas of Australia, particularly in South Australia. During the election campaign the former Minister for Post and Telecommunications announced that the Federal Government would extend television services to the far northern areas of South Australia. He indicated that translator stations would be installed at Hawker and Port Augusta and that repeater stations would be installed at Maree, Andamooka, Coober Pedy and Oodnadatta and that capital works programs would extend over about three years. It was envisaged that the capital works program would extend over about three years. That statement unfortunately was misinterpreted and quite a bit of publicity was associated with it during the election campaign. The publicity suggested that the Eyre Peninsula part of South Australia had been excluded and that people living in towns such as Streaky Bay, Wudinna and other parts of that area were not included in the program. I immediately got in touch with the Minister at his home in Queensland and was assured that the program was in addition to the programs the Department already had in mind, which included provision of television services for Streaky Bay and the other areas I have mentioned. I had his assurance that these areas on Eyre Peninsula would have good television within 12 months. I do not know whether he meant that literally or whether he meant that a start would be made on the provision of a good television service for these areas within 12 months. I would like some clarification of that point from the Minister, or perhaps the Minister concerned could provide me with the information later. 
In answer to a question on notice from the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis), Mr Staley  said on 3 May that low power national translators were envisaged to serve Streaky Bay, Smoky Bay-Haslam, Wudinna and Kimba. A medium power translator would be installed to serve the farming area in the central Eyre Peninsula, including the towns of Cleve and Lock, a translator would be installed at Port Augusta and an additional translator at Port Lincoln. In addition, upgrading of the existing national translators at Mount Olinthus and Brothwicks 
Hill is envisaged to provide improved coverage along the west coast of Spencer Gulf. However, no statement was made as to when the installations would take place. I should like to register today my concern that some work should be commenced on site preparations for the various installations and, if possible, commencement should be made within the ensuing 12 months on a translator or some other installation to serve the Streaky Bay and surrounding areas. I would like the Minister to take note of that and transmit my concern to her colleague. Hopefully, she will be able to get a positive answer as soon as possible. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the emergency number 000 which is provided for urgent calls to police, fire brigade and ambulance. As this number takes the longest to register and can more easily be misdialled by distressed callers, will the Minister ask his colleague in the other place to give favourable consideration to changing the emergency number to 1 1 1? 

 -Mr President, I present a report from the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment on annual reports referred to the Committee as at 1 July 1978. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
The Senate, on 1 March 1978, resolved to refer to the legislative and general purpose standing committees for their consideration the annual reports tabled in the Senate of government departments and statutory authorities. Pursuant to that resolution the Committee has examined and now reports on annual reports from the following bodies: 
-I ask the Minister for Science whether he is aware of the allegation that appeared in the Adelaide Press that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation did not consult the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories in the planning stages of the Australian National Animal Health Laboratory. Can the Minister say whether this allegation is true? Is the Minister able to assure the Senate that in all future planning programs the Government will consult major government laboratories? 
We are discussing the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill which is in fact an election policy commitment by the LiberalNational Country Party Government and will provide $300m to the States over the next five years, commencing on 1 July, by way of nonrepayable grants to upgrade urban public transport. I note that of that $300m, South Australia's share is $20m. I am a little disappointed that we were not able to find that something like $30m was granted to South Australia because South Australia has about 10 per cent of the population of this country. I am a little critical in that regard and hope that perhaps in future South Australia 's case will be given more favourable consideration. Nevertheless, $20m is a considerable sum and it indicates that the Commonwealth Government is paying attention to the need to provide funds to the States to upgrade public transport. 
We heard speeches earlier this evening- I refer particularly to  Senator Collard  's remarkswhich stress the importance of encouraging people not to use private motor vehicles. I think this is a most important aspect of the whole proposal that is before us tonight. By upgrading public transport, by providing more regular public transport services and by providing more modern public transport vehicles which are more comfortable- perhaps air conditioned- I believe we have some chance of encouraging people to leave their motor cars at home. That has been one aspect of transport that has concerned me for a long time. I have suggested in the past that perhaps governments ought to look at the possibility of prohibiting parking in central business districts, prohibiting parking meters and that sort of thing. In that way, coupled with more efficient public transport services, perhaps we might encourage people to leave their vehicles at home. This, in my view, also would contribute quite significantly to oil conservation. There is no doubt about it: Private motor vehicles are using a tremendous amount of fuel. In a world that is desperately short of fuel this could make a significant contribution to oil conservation. 
In Adelaide, of course, proposals have been put forward to upgrade public transport. The 
Federal Government in the past has provided money to enable the State Government of South Australia to upgrade the Christie Downs line and that is a quite efficient public transport system. I often feel that it is a pity that the old electric trams have disappeared from Adelaide. In those days although they seemed to be rather comical, in many ways they were a most efficient method of transporting masses of people quickly and efficiently. I remember the old 'rocker' tram that was featured in an article in the Adelaide  Advertiser  recently. I remember riding on those vehicles many years ago as I travelled to and from my consulting room in Adelaide. It was rather a hazardous experience because they rocked rather violently and one felt that one could be tossed off the vehicle without much provocation. Nevertheless, those vehicles did provide a very efficient service. This is something that always impresses me when I visit Melbourne and see the electric trams there. 
In South Australia the South Australian Government has been considering providing a rapid transit corridor to serve the north eastern suburbs. Recently the South Australian Government presented a report on five different routes that had some appeal to people in certain areas. But generally I do not think that Government has the ideal solution to the problem by providing a rapid transit corridor to serve that part of Adelaide. I note that the South Australian shadow Minister of Transport, the Liberal Opposition member,  Mr Ted  Chapman, made comments on the proposal in a Press statement not long ago. In what was a major policy announcement, he said that whilst the actual route of the transit corridor was the sole responsibility of the State Government, an early decision on the route was necessary to avoid further disastrous and unnecessary division which had developed among residents of the various corridor option areas. He said that during the so-called 6-week public participation period considerable bitterness had been generated because the Government had been playing off one group of residents against another. He went on to say that it was apparent that the Government had already decided to adopt the Torrens Valley route, which was option 5 of the NEAPTR proposal.  Mr Chapman  also said that even the Premier had publicly indicated his support for that route. However, he said that the State Government's financial mismanagement could force it to shelve the multimillion dollar project. The Opposition in South Australia believes that the Government is in such financial trouble that it may use any excuse to postpone the transit link.  Mr Chapman  also went on to say that if the Government ultimately announced the adoption of the Torrens Valley route, the Opposition would insist that a full and proper environmental impact study should be undertaken forthwith. He said that the Opposition would seek to have the recommendations of the River Torrens Committee implemented as essential ingredients of the Valley Corridor Development Project. 

 Mr Chapman does not support, and neither does the Opposition in South Australia, an above-ground tram track in King William Street. Nor do they believe that sufficient discussions have taken place between the State Government and the Adelaide City Council. They were also concerned with the impact on the City of Adelaide and adjacent parklands. So they are very wise in recommending that a full and proper environmental impact study should take place with respect to that proposal. This finance we are providing to the State Government will enable that Government to plan projects of the type I have just described. Although I would like to have seen South Australia attract a little more finance than the sum of $20m- I mentioned that I thought $30m would be a more appropriate figure- I am glad to see that the Commonwealth Government has fulfilled an election policy commitment and is providing this money to the States for this very important purpose. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the report on the great whitewash which was made public by the Premier of South Australia last week. What action does the Federal Government intend taking to ensure that appropriate security measures are observed in South Australia following the Salisbury affair and the consequent determination of the Dunstan Government to restrict the activities of the South Australian Police Special Branch? 

 -Mr President, I present a progress report from the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment on its reference relating to the continuing scrutiny of pollution. The progress report relates to herbicides, pesticides and human health. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
The Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment is charged by the Senate to maintain 'continuing scrutiny of the problems of pollution, including ways and means of preserving the environment from pollution'. These terms of reference require the Committee to keep watch over a great variety of matters affecting the environment. 
From time to time some matter arises which causes special disquiet in the community. One such matter of current concern is an alleged connection between the use of certain agricultural chemicals and their long-term effect on human health. This matter, although noted by the Committee earlier, was recently highlighted in Australia by the media, which threw doubt generally on the adequacy of pre-release testing of agricultural chemicals. In particular a link is alleged to exist between the spraying of herbicides 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D, and certain types of birth defects such as spina bifida and anencephaly. 
The Committee was disturbed by some aspects of the matters highlighted and members felt they should attempt to learn more about the problem. It accordingly resolved on 9 May 1978 to carry out an informal examination of the matter within the context of its reference relating to the continuing scrutiny of the problems of pollution. Informal discussions have been held with representatives of the Department of Primary Industry, the Department of Health, and agricultural chemical manufacturers. Documents touching upon some aspects of this matter have also been studied. 
As it was an informal examination, the Committee does not consider it appropriate at this time to report the detailed technical matters considered by it. However, several matters are considered to require careful examination. These include: 
The adequacy of the prescribed testing which forms part of the requirements for clearance of agricultural chemicals as a prerequisite of registration and use; whether or not the mechanism for review, revision and implementation of the requirements for clearance is satisfactory; and whether or not the procedures for labelling agricultural and veterinary chemicals are satisfactory. This last needs to take into account, amongst other things, those members of the Australian community whose first language is not English. 
With the above in mind, and noting that the Victorian, Queensland, and South Australian governments have instituted inquiries into the matter, the Committee feels it is not in a position to recommend a formal Senate inquiry at this time. The Committee intends to keep the matter under continuing review. It recommends that a final decision on a Senate inquiry be deferred pending examination of the findings of the Victorian and Queensland governments. 
Procedures for reporting and investigating possible long-term or obscure effects of the use of agricultural chemicals appear to be but weakly defined. In particular, current machinery for the systematic collection of relevant information such as the occurrence and frequency of congenital abnormalities and various kinds of cancer seems inadequate for the purpose. The Committee accordingly recommends an examination of this matter by the Minister for Health. I commend the report to honourable senators and seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I also support the amendments that have been moved by  Senator Rae.  I congratulate  Senator Tehan  and  Senator Rae  on what they have said. I think  Senator Tehan  summed up extremely well the attitude of members on this side of the chamber who object to retrospectivity. I think we have to ask: Why is it necessary for taxpayers to seek to avoid taxation? It is clear that the Australian people are being overtaxed. That of course is the responsibility of successive governments. 
I totally agree with what you have just said,  Mr Chairman.  I refer to the recognition by the Liberal-Country Party Government of the need to restructure taxation. The Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  as he was then, instituted the Asprey Committee for that purpose. That was long overdue. Had it not been for the fact that we had introduced the inquiry perhaps no one would have thought about the fact that taxation in Australia is grossly in excess of what it should be. Of course that is the reason why tax agents, lawyers and accountants seek ways and means within the law to minimise the tax that is payable by their clients. A general pra.titioner friend told me the other day that a specialist doctor earns $1 10,000 a year.  His  expenses are $30,000.  His  taxation, according to this friend who was talking to him a day before, was $40,000.  His  provisional tax was $40,000. When one is met with that sort of situation one has to do something to try to reduce the taxation commitment. I am as anxious as anyone else in this chamber to prevent tax avoidance or tax evasion. I do not want to go into the legalities of those terms. I support the Government entirely in moving to prevent unnecessary exploitation of the taxpayers of Australia. 
The Curran scheme that has been the subject of comment during the debate is estimated, according to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  to have cost the revenue something between $500m and $2,000m, which is an incredible gap. This illustrates how difficult it is to be sure about the figure. In any case it must have cost the revenue quite a lot of money. As the Treasurer said, if we close one gap several others open, and people are able to work upon those gaps legitimately in the pursuit of reducing their income tax. I join others who have been critical about the way the Government has gone about introducing retrospectivity. The then Treasurer, the Right Honourable Phillip Lynch, in his Budget last year made a vague attempt to say that the Government intended to move to close taxation loopholes. Had he been specific and said: 'We will move to deal with the Curran-type scheme. We are going to introduce legislation to deal with that, and it will be retrospective from this day nominated', I would go along with it. I could then say: 'We have a principle in the Liberal Party with respect to taxation retrospectivity. The Treasurer has clearly stated our intention in this regard, and I shall go along with it'. 
It is true that I have had many representations from lawyers, accountants and taxation consultants on this subject. I assume that some of those may have vested interests in it. It is also true that the majority of representations I have had have come from friends of mine whom I know particularly well. I know that they are not taking advantage of the Curran scheme. Many of them are Liberals who believe in Liberal principles with respect to taxation measures. They oppose retrospectivity as a matter of real principle. It is untrue that there are not people in this community who would suffer as a result of this legislation. There are people who legitimately committed themselves by way of investment, believing that their advisers had been acting within the law. They have taken advantage of such advice. I suggest that a number of people will suffer as a result. 
I am not arguing about morals. Far be it from me to have a debate with a lawyer in this place. I know just how effective the legal representatives in this chamber are in debate. As a simple suburban optometrist I would never have a debate with a lawyer on the question of morals. 
Yes, I am not entirely oneeyed either. I do not want to repeat too much of what has been said, but I should like to quote two passages from  Senator Tehan  's speech which I thought - 
Referring to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill and to the amendments that have been moved by  Senator Rae,  which I support, I should like to quote from page 242 1 of the Senate  Hansard.  I draw attention to the passage where  Senator Tehan  was making a point on Tuesday. He said: 
The point I make is that once a government, of whatever persuasion, sets itself up in moral judgment as to the laws of the country and decides to make one of seven schemes retrospective, in my view it is an injustice; it is a departure from and an abandonment of a fundamental legal principle and can lead only to trouble. 
I support that view and I support the amendments. I suggest that the Government, when it is considering taxation measures of this character in the future, should bear in mind that it is necessary for the Treasurer or for whoever makes the statement to say: 'We will deal with this particular type of scheme in a legislative sense. It will be retrospectve from this particular date '. I will go along with that. But if the Government tries to push over Liberal Party principles in any other respect, I will oppose it. 
I rise at this stage to record my objection to what  Senator McLaren  said earlier in the debate. Quite unfairly he accused me of expressing concern for people who are my friends. The effect of his remarks was that I was protecting silvertails and such people. I do not very often take exception to what  Senator McLaren  says but on this occasion I believe - 
They were inanities, as my colleague points out. I do not usually wish to dignify  Senator McLaren  by responding to his remarks, but I must respond on this occasion because the statement was perfectly incorrect and untrue. It tended to denigrate me in this chamber. I point out quite clearly that my attitude in this matter is based on many representations I have received. Some representations have been from lawyers, accountants and tax agents. Some of them may well have vested interests in the matter under discussion, but the large majority of people who have objected to the retrospectivity contemplated in the Bill are small people in the economic sense. They are people who are liberally-minded but who object to the principle established in this Bill. They believe that retrospective action with respect to tax should not be contemplated by a LiberalNational Country Party government. I am very conscious of the fact that  Senator McLaren  has a compulsive urge to make speeches on all subjects, particularly at the end of the session and much to the embarrassment of his colleagues. 
I did not have that in mind at all. I was suggesting that the honourable senator made some disparaging remarks about me. That is the reason why I made that comment. 
I certainly would not do that,  Mr Chairman,  because I believe that during the time that I have been a member of this chamber your rulings have been perfectly fair in every respect. I conclude my remarks by suggesting that honourable senators bear your ruling in mind when they take part in debates in this place and stick to the facts. That applies to honourable senators on both sides of the chamber. They should also bear in mind that, as we are nearing the end of the session, short speeches are preferable. 
I have listened with interest to what  Senator Colston  had to say in presenting his views with respect to this report. J. think he might be confused with respect to the restrictions placed upon visitors in this place. I take it that his wife or my wife are at liberty to go into the parliamentary guests' dining room and the areas set aside for such purposes. I would like someone 's clarification on this, but I take it that the term 'Parliamentary Refreshment Rooms' refers to those places to which only members of Parliament are allowed. That is my interpretation of it. That advice may assist  Senator Colston  and his wife in the future. 
I agree with that. Perhaps some light will be thrown upon this. This reference came to the Privileges Committee because of the disastrous happenings in Sydney- a most regrettable incident. Of course we do not want to see anything like that happen in Canberra. The Committee, of which I was a member, interviewed several witnesses. It was clear to us that there was some confusion in the minds of those in the two police forces that have some responsibility in this area. We considered that that presents problems and there should be some unity of protective police force when dealing with this place. I have just returned, together with  Senator Colston,  from overseas. I refer to the question of identification of parliamentary members. I would not wish to wear a badge with my face on it. It is bad enough to walk around with my face without having another one pinned on my - 
I have some objection to that and I am egotistical enough to believe that anyone on duty at the doors of Parliament House should recognise me when I come in. I cannot see any reason why senators and members should not carry their gold passes which have been provided to them at the expense of the taxpayer. I imagine that that would be a suitable means of identification. I can imagine how sartorial my friend,  Senator Georges,  would look if he had his gold pass draped around his tie in the form of a tie stay. 
Honourable senators can place the interpretation on that as they wish.  Senator Colston  and I observed that in Japan members of parliament wear a neat little badge which I think looks tidy. If people decide on that form of identification, perhaps even  Senator Georges  and I might agree to that. The report of the Committee sums up pretty well the evidence that was presented to us by the people indicated in appendix A. I think I should pay a tribute to  Senator Tom  Drake-Brockman for the chairmanship he was able to perform during the Committee hearings. The Privileges Committee does not meet often. This was a significant effort on the part of the members of the Committee and I believe the report deserves the commendation of the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 10 May 1978: 
I refer to the overtime ban imposed on 9 March, some nine weeks ago, by 450 mail sorters in Adelaide as part of a dispute, which began in October last year, over the payment of a tax-free meal allowance of $3.90 when overtime is worked. Is the Minister aware that last week Australia Post's public relations officer said that the backlog in mail would not be cleared for another six weeks? In the light of this, 1 ask the Minister whether he is aware that two weeks ago- seven weeks after the bans were imposed- the State manager of Australia Post said that 15 extra workers, as recommended by Commissioner Clarkson of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, had been employed a fortnight earlier and that it would take a further three weeks to train them fully. That means that this extra staff would have been available early next week. In view of this, can the Minister say why the Australia Post public relations officer has now said that these extra personnel who would assist in clearing the congestion of mail will not be available for a further four weeks? Will the Minister investigate the reason why these confused statements have been made? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of the anxiety of people living on the Eyre Peninsula, who are not currently receiving a good television service, concerning the Government's program for television extension in that part of South Australia, particularly in the Streaky Bay area and surrounding areas? In view of the undertaking I was given by the Government in 1976 that Eyre Peninsula would be provided with a good television service within 12 months, can the Minister provide me with detailed information concerning the plans of Telecom Australia to upgrade and to extend television services on Eyre Peninsula? Where will the new stations and translators be situated? In what order will they be constructed? When will this program be completed? 
Naturally, the Government is concerned at the plight of the building industry. It was quick to recognise that that important sector of the community which employs over 500,000 people needed to be dealt with in a responsible way. That is exactly what the Government's efforts were devoted to immediately it gained office at the end of 1975. The general thrust of our economic policy, of course, has been directed towards the reduction of the incredibly high inflation rate that we inherited at that time.  Senator Carrick  pointed to the fact that, during the last year of the Labor Party Administration in Canberra, the inflation rate went up to about 1 9 per cent. At the end of last year the inflation rate was 9.3 per cent. In the last quarter it came down to 7.9 per cent. The building industry itself recognises the importance of a continuing economic policy aimed at reducing that inflation rate even further. We hope sincerely that, as a result of these responsible economic policies which are being followed in the current Budget, the interest rate will come down to five per cent or six per cent next year. 
-Well, the building industry acknowledges that the Government's policies are directed in a proper and responsible way. It acknowledges and applauds the Government's intention to reduce further the inflation rate to five per cent. It is also our intention to monitor carefully monetary growth from six per cent to eight per cent. The building industry also draws attention to the cost pressures that have been evident in the industry. The Master Builders Federation of Australia in a Press release stated:   . . since its return to office the Government's policies have led to a significant stabilisation in cost pressures in the industry. In the 12 months to July 1978 building materials costs rose 7.9 per cent and that of other than house building 6.6 per cent. The rates contrast with increases in excess of 20 per cent in 1974-75. Wages rates have increased by some eight per cent over the year and represents a substantial easing in the rate as compared with a rate well over 20 per cent in 1974-75. 
The Federation also drew attention to the attitude of the building unions. It stated: 
However, the attitude of building unions to wage indexation has had a profoundly adverse effect in building performance and as a consequence has weakened confidence in investment in building and construction. 
I think everyone associated with the industry has to recognise that they have a responsibility as well. 
There are, of course, other factors which have been responsible for an oversupply of houses over the years. We can go back to the boom in 1976 which obviously encouraged peoplespeculative builders in particular- to increase their rate of construction in anticipation of even higher sales As a result of this - 
I am just reflecting back to 1976 because problems were created at that time. I am suggesting that in South Australia there was a large number of unsold houses at that time. At the present time the stocks of unsold dwellings are reducing. During 1977 and this year they have come down close to normal levels. I believe that this is encouraging not only for the Government but also certainly for the building industry. During the last quarter private dwelling approvals were up two per cent and government approvals were up 16 per cent. I believe that this trend, which is a healthy sign, will continue. 
There are other factors as well that perhaps have had an influence on the demand for houses. For example, demographic factors have contributed to a reduction in demand. First marriage rates have dropped significantly over the last few years indicating a drop in the number of newly marrieds who seek their first home. Fertility is continuing to decline largely due to deferment of first births. These factors have an influence as well. I believe there are other elements that will help the building industry. For example, the recently announced target of 70,000 migrants coming to Australia should provide a significant boost to demand. 
The Government in its Budget recognises that other measures besides the reduction of inflation and interest rates, which have been brought into question by the Opposition, are required to assist the building industry. I refer to interest rates. Earlier this year interest rates on most bank and permanent building society loans were reduced by one half of one per cent. Banks now charge rates on loans for owner-occupied housing of between 8% per cent and 10 per cent. Permanent building society rates are of the order of 1016 per cent to 1 1 per cent. The one half per cent reduction in interest rates has brought a significant saving to the house buyer. For example, the repayments on a $25,000 loan over 25 years are reduced by 4 per cent. That means a saving of about $9 per month. As the Government has stated in the Budget Papers, the balance of factors in the supply and demand for funds during the present financial year is conducive to a continuing decline in interest rates. This will mean further savings to the house buyer. 
I point also to other benefits for the industry that will emerge as a result of the Budget. The greatest benefits will, of course, come from reduced mortgage interest rates. A welfare housing allocation of $3 16m brings a new approach to housing authority activities. More autonomy and flexibility have been provided to the States in allocating funds. Rental income of authorities will reflect tenants' capacity to pay. That also will be of assistance. Matching capital funds will be provided by the States for new works. All of those things will, I think, have a profound effect on the industry over the next 12 months. The Government has also provided an increased grant of $ 14m for pensioner housing. This demonstrates the Government's concern for those people in need. The Home Savings Grant Scheme has been retained. An amount of $20m is to be provided for that purpose. That will certainly provide further stimulus to the building industry. The Government's policies are directed quite responsibly to reducing interest rates and inflation, and I think that is to be applauded. Certainly the building industry had already made such a statement. I believe that the people employed in this very important industry will continue to benefit from the responsible economic policies of this Government. 
Is the Minister for Science aware of the claim by Professor Peter Schwerdtfeger Director of the Institute for Atmospheric and Marine Sciences at Flinders University, that indecision by the Department of Science is progressively excluding participation of Australian scientists in the area of iceberg technology? Is the Minister concerned that continued indecision could put Australia at a disadvantage compared with other countries when iceberg technology becomes a viable proposition? Is it a fact, as the professor claims, that in recent months a number of Australian developments in the field of iceberg technology have systematically been patented on a world-wide basis by a French-Saudi Arabian consortium called Iceberg Transport International? If this is so, what action can the Government take to protect Australian research initiatives in this field? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the statement made today by the  Chairman  of the European Shipping Conference in which he indicated that industrial disruption has cost more than $ 100m this year. I ask: As the current waterfront dispute is contributing to our poor overseas reputation as a reliable trading partner, can the Minister say when the people of Australia can expect appropriate action by the Government to ensure that the accumulation of some 1 1 ,000 containers around the ports of this country can be cleared and Australia's export trading resumed? 
-Can the Minister representing the Treasurer say when the Government will be in a position to announce Loan Council decisions concerning the applications by the States for loan funds? 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I take this opportunity to congratulate the  President  upon his re-election to the office of  President  of the Senate. I wish to congratulate  Senator Scott  upon his appointment as  Chairman  of Committees, and as you,  Senator Robertson,  are in the chair I congratulate you upon your appointment as Temporary  Chairman  of Committees. 
There are one or two that other honourable senators might care to refer to at a later stage. I listened with interest, as always, to  Senator Ryan,  who always seems to come through with some sort of a paranoia with respect to foreign-owned companies operating in Australia. I think she referred to the fact that these companies were taking profits out of this country. The Australian Labor Party tends to dwell persistently on this subject, forgetting of course the job opportunities that are presented by foreign investment. It also forgets that the taxation revenue that is derived by this country from foreign investment is considerable; that the amount of money that is taken out of the country is infinitesimal compared with the benefits that are derived from that kind of investment. 
The Labor Party seems to forget that Australia cannot develop adequately without the assistance of foreign investment. I was pleased to note that immediately after the Budget was presented there was an upsurge in overseas interest in investing in Australia. I believe that is a good thing. We have an example of the most powerful country in the world, the United States of America, right before us in that regard. That country was developed essentially on foreign investment. I would venture to say that under our present type of government, with encouragement of that nature, in 50 to 100 years Australia will be in a similar position to that of the United States of America. 
I know that the honourable senator gets excited about it. I am talking about the truth, something that the honourable senator does not like: He does not like the success that has been demonstrated by private enterprise in the United States of America. He possibly denigrates the fact that foreign interests want to invest in this country, which is the country of the future. 
I wish to refer to the excellent speech that was made by  Senator Hamer-  his maiden speech in this chamber. I thought his observations concerning the role of the Senate were very well thought out and considered. I agreed with everything that he said. The importance of the Senate cannot be over-estimated. The honourable senator was quite correct in stating that the role of the Senate was to exercise proper surveillance over the executive government, no matter which party happened to be in power. I believe that is one of the fundamental roles of the Senate. As long as other colleagues on this side of the House and I- and perhaps even  Senator Wheeldonpursue  that policy we will ensure that we demonstrate our responsibility in this regard. I was also interested in the maiden speech of my colleague from South Australia,  Senator Teague  who, among other things, drew attention to the need to face up to the problems of technological change which confront this country. 
The Budget, as far as I am concerned, is a responsible one. I have been a member of this Parliament for a number of years; in fact, it is about 1 1 years since I was first elected to the lower House of the Parliament. I do not suppose there has been one Budget of which I have not been critical. This one is no exception, and I shall make critical comments on certain aspects of it a little later. 
One thing which we on this side of the House have, and which always seems to get under the skin of the Opposition, is that we have independence, which is quite important. Whenever we on this side note that the 
Government of the day, irrespective of which party it happens to be, has made an error of judgment, there are those of us who are prepared to demonstrate that independence. 
I commend the Government on its record in reducing inflation. The former Government had an abysmal record in this area of economic management. It plunged the country into economic chaos, and the inflation rate rose to quite severe proportions. We have managed to bring the inflation rate down. 
The underwriter opposite keeps on interjecting. I suggest that our record is quite commendable and must be the envy of the Australian Labor Party, which failed miserably in this area. We have managed to reduce inflation to 7.9 per cent. At the end of June 1976 the rate of inflation was 12.3 per cent. The record speaks for itself. It must be embarrassing for the Labor Party to note that Australia's inflation rate currently is running at the average of our trading partners in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. It is vitally important that the Government succeed in its determination this financial year to reduce inflation to 5 per cent, the prediction of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  The Treasurer, in his Budget Speech, said: 
In a world of subdued demand and fierce competition for markets, our comparative performance in domestic economic management is of acute and increasing significance. 
It will not be sufficient for us merely to hold our own with the average performance of our trading partners. 
We must do better. 
I personally fear that if we do not do better Australia could be relegated to being considered solely as an international supplier of raw materials. This conclusion became obvious to me after visiting Japan two months ago as a member of an Australian parliamentary delegation. The prospect of an economy even more heavily dependent on international commodity markets supported largely by the fragility of service industries is not an encouraging one for our future. 
I believe that we are facing a crisis. I say that because our consumer market is small and manufacturing industry in this country has been largely shaped by a policy of import replacement brought about by high levels of tariff protection. This has meant a number of things including diversification in place of specialisation and a degree of unresponsiveness to the technological challenges which have taken place abroad. That seems to be obvious. Australian industry is suspended between a high wage structure and inferior technology. Our manufacturing base, generally speaking, is not well suited to international competition. On the other hand, most of our Asian trading partners enjoy a flourishing and competitive manufacturing base because either wage costs are comparatively low- an advantage that is likely to continue- or - 

 - Senator Coleman talks about exploitation in Japan. The Japanese have a higher wage structure than Australia. They have industry unions, which I think is an important factor. Australia should be having a look at that. Perhaps my saying that surprises the honourable senator. An interesting aspect about the Japenese is that, faced with pressures coming from low cost countries such as Taiwan, Korea, Mexico and the Philippines which are capable of producing high quality electronic equipment and so on, they came to grips with the problem. How did they do it? 
I visited the Matsushita company which produces National radio and television sets. It is a company which had sales last year of $9.2 billion. It employs no less than 80,000 people in Japan and 2 1,000 people overseas. It recognised a few years ago that it was necessary to compete with those low cost countries to which I have referred. The company decided that over a threeyear period it would have to reduce its factory floor staff by 50 per cent. It did so, not by retrenchment but by technological change. It introduced numerically controlled tools and computerised production line technology. It was able, in that period, to increase its staff by 3 per cent and to integrate the people who were displaced from the factory floor into other areas of the company that required more staff because of the company's increased productivity. In that time the company was able to increase its productivity substantially. I think that at present Australia can learn something from Japan. 
We are faced with the need to restructure our industry. We are faced with the need to examine technology in Australia. 
-I am talking about Australians- the Government, industry and the trade unions. I totally agree with what Bob Hawke said the other day. 
All industries. It is necessary for those three important sectors of our community to come to grips with the problems of technological change in a co-operative sense and with a sense of nationalism which I find it very difficult to detect in Australia at present because of the incessant strikes that are perpetrated on the people of Australia and the threats that are posed to our reputation as a credible export nation, a credible international trading partner. The way in which militant left wing, communist unions try to take government away from where it should lie is a disgrace as far as I am concerned. That is the truth that everybody in Australia recognises. Until we develop a spirit of Australian nationalism- and that means a team approach by government, industry and trade unions working together and not pulling each other apart- we will find that Australia's industrial reputation, our industrial competence, will continue to slide. That is what is happening at present. 
-I do not think that senators on this side of the House have a biased attitude towards trade unions. I have referred to what I believe is the minority element within the trade union movement which seems to be determined to continue to help to wreck our economy. This is what has been happening over the years. The trade union movement must recognise the importance of this teamwork. I am just as critical of industry. Sometimes it goes along in its own sweet way and does not recognise some of the points that I have been mentioning. Do not let me give the impression that I am lambasting the trade union movement exclusively. 
On the way to Japan I took the trouble to call at Taiwan. That country is a rapidly developing industrial force in South East Asia. I took the trouble of going to a place called Kaohsiung where there is a very modern steelworks. Alongside that modern steelworks is a modern shipbuilding facility. On the slipways of that shipbuilding facility I saw no fewer than 12 ships in various stages of construction. They ranged from a 450,000 tonner to about a 9,000 tonner and there were about 28 more ships on order. Anyone who saw that sort of facility would not be surprised to know the reasons behind the failure of our shipbuilding industry. There were two reasons. First of all in Australia the industry did not recognise the need for technological change. I am critical of the industry in that regard. But also the trade unions did not co-operate very well. Even at a time when some of us in Canberra were talking to  Senator Cotton  and trying to help the shipbuilding industry the employees at Whyalla were going on strike. That seems to me to have been a quite incredible thing to have done. When I look at a shipyard which has 1 1 or 12 ships on the slipways and a 450,000 tonner which was built for Woodside-Burmah and was delivered on time I worry about our attitude in Australia. 
Simply because some character did not want to allow a New Zealand ship to go on sea trials. What a stupid thing to do. It did not help his fellow trade unionists and as far as I am concerned he certainly did not help his cause here by carrying out that sort of action. 
I do not want to be sidetracked in this debate by my friend from South Australia. I intend to proceed. It is my opinion that the South East Asian market is of fundamental importance to Australia's future as a trading nation. I think, with respect to market potential, that we sometimes become preoccupied with the European Economic Community. 
It is not a question of flogging off Australia. I do not deny the importance of the EEC to Australia. I do not want to give that impression. But I do say that we ought to be devoting far more time to markets in South East Asia. As a matter of fact in Taiwan, for example, which we do not recognise diplomatically, we are presently dealing to the tune of I think $500m- a trade which is about $65m in our favour. The potential growth there is quite staggering. The steel industry by 1982 will require something like twice the amount of iron ore it is currently receiving from Australia. In January this year I visited an automatic reactor, the first that was commissioned. Two more are under active planning and will be constructed within the next year or so and five more are in prospect. That represents an immediate market for uranium oxide of 1,000 tonnes a year with a value of $87m. We do not want to become mercenary about it but that is an area of potential development. In that area there are other demands for raw materials in the form of steaming and coking coal, bauxite, copper, lead and zinc. A recent example of the potential was a shipment of three containers of cuts of mutton sent there from South Australia. This could lead to perhaps 18 containers a month. 
That sort of exercise is currently being carried out through the back door because we do not recognise the country diplomatically. But there are other countries which do not recognise Taiwan diplomatically. Japan, for example, had a diplomatic post there before diplomatic relations were broken off. It had 35 people manning that post. Today it has a commercial office there under the name of the Eastern Trading Co. or some such title with 48 Japanese working very hard to continue building trading relationships with that country. What is wrong with Australia? We are the only country that does not bother to increase trade there. Qantas is to my knowledge the only airline that does not fly in and out of Taipei. Why does it not do so? Why do we not set up a commercial office? Why do we not show an interest in trebling our trade, which could be easily done in 12 months? Other countries seem to be taking advantage of these opportunities; why are we not doing so? I am sure my colleague  Senator Sim  would support that argument. 
I will refresh his memory. I am talking about the need for Australia to establish some sort of trading office in Taipei so that we can take advantage of the markets in that region. What happens now? People go to the department of trade in that country and say: 'We want to buy from Australia '. The department has to say: 'We cannot do anything about that. You will have to go to Hong Kong and arrange it through the Australian High Commission there '. In my view that is crazy. Taiwan is buying materials from Saudi Arabia, Indonesia, Japan, Canada and the United States and is even getting uranium from South Africa. Is that not dreadful? 
I know that  Senator Wheeldon  has some regard for South Africa. I have noted a certain moderation in some of the statements that he has made in recent times and I commend him for it. I think he is a very astute senator and has some knowledge in this area. The trading potential in South East Asia is quite remarkable. Korea, for example, has embarked  onaprogramofnuclearpowerdevelopment  which again reflects the interest in these countries of ensuring an adequate supply of energy. I was able to talk to atomic energy scientists and engineers in Japan. They are anxious to expand their production of power through atomic nuclear energy to something like 60 million megawatts by 1 990. They are also actively examining the possibility of fast breeder reactors. A note of warning was given by President Carter of the United States of America when he said that we should be providing uranium to those countries in order to fulfil their energy requirements. I believe that those countries, as they continue to develop industrially, will certainly be requiring more of our rural commodities. 
Already the Japanese are showing interest in our beef. I am afraid that the price structure there is rather incredible. Perhaps there is room for the Japanese Government to re-examine its price structure for beef. The fishing industries in all those countries are very anxious to enter into joint ventures with Australia particularly as we have now approved the 200-mile nautical limit. In my opinion it will be vital to Australia, if we are to exploit that tremendous resource effectively, to go into joint ventures with countries like Taiwan, Korea and Japan. They have a great expertise to offer Australia. The existence of the 200-mile limit means that we have a tremendous resource. Those countries have demonstrated an interest in joining us in research and development of that important fishery resource. 
In Japan I was interested to note that 10.3 million tonnes of fish are consumed in that country each year. Japan produces 70 per cent of that amount from its own waters and only 20,000 tonnes comes from Australian waters. This is a small proportion but it is high quality fish. The Japanese like our blue fin tuna and our squid. They use this in their sashimi, a fresh fish dish which they regard as a delicacy. I tried it for the first time when I was in Japan and I liked it. There seems to me to be a tremendous opportunity for Australia to expand greatly our trading opportunities in the fishing area with those countries. I know that there are companies in Australia that are anxious to take advantage of the opportunity to join with Japan and Korea and other countries in joint ventures that can result only in profit to Australia and benefit to many people in the South East Asian countries. 
-I take this opportunity on the motion for the first reading of this money Bill to bring forward a matter which I believe is quite important. I refer to the Government's present policy on national highways. As honourable senators will know, under this policy, which has been in existence for some years, the Federal Government provides a set sum of money to the States for this purpose and leaves it to the States to allocate their priorities. Although this policy seems to be fair in some respects, I am becoming increasingly concerned about the Stuart Highway in South Australia, a link which is most important to the mutual development of South Australia and the Northern Territory. For a number of years now- it seems like a number of years anyway- we in South Australia have been trying to direct the attention of both the State and Federal governments to the significance of this important road. The road is a killer. It is a horror stretch; one of the most disgraceful sections of road in the Commonwealth. It already has claimed lives. A few days ago a tourist bus overturned and several passengers had to be taken to hospital by the Royal Flying Doctor Service. In recent times flooding in the northern part of South Australia has resulted in road access to the Northern Territory from South Australia being cut. 
Since the road to Brisbane has been sealed, the South Australian economy has suffered to the tune of about $80m a year because of loss of business to Queensland. South Australia which is going through a period of depression, certainly cannot afford to lose any business to any State at this time. Through the Minister I have suggested to the Government that the policy on national highways ought to be reviewed. For example, construction of the Stuart Highway is estimated to cost about $65m. The Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has indicated that he desires the State Government to undertake some work on that highway and would like to see the gravelled section between Port Augusta and Woomera- 50 kilometres in length- constructed this year. He suggested in a Press statement that $1.3m should be spent on that section. If we spend that amount of money a year on the Stuart Highway it will take us about 80 years to construct it. 
I recall that late last year there was a deputation of members from both sides of this Parliament to the Minister. State members also were present and the Minister for Roads in South Australia,  Mr Virgo,  led the State deputation. The group included the Mayor of Alice Springs and representatives of the Australian Road Federation and other interested parties. The deputation was unanimous in its request to the Minister to provide a special allocation of funds to enable this highway to be constructed. After the meeting I drafted a letter, which was approved by honourable senators on both sides of this chamber. It was signed and sent to the Minister requesting that substantial additional funding be made available to enable the construction of the highway to be completed in a matter of six years or so. This means that $10m or so extra a year will be needed for the construction of that highway. The Government should have a very close look at this request with a view to considering a change in policy. It is all very well to have the policy operating generally as it is at the present time but the Federal Minister should be able to make additional funds available for roads of special importance. 
-I believe it will. That is a industry, particularly in South Australia, is in a depressed state. This project will create jobs for 270 people during the construction period. I am glad that  Senator Keeffe  drew my attention to this very important aspect. Projects of this type, whether they be for roads or railways gauge standardisation, which have a national development significance ought to be considered now at a time when unemployment is a problem and when we can build these facilities perhaps cheaper than we will be able to in a few years' time. In this way we can increase our national assets and ensure the long-term developmental interest of the States and the nation itself. I hope the Government will look seriously at this suggestion as a way of building national assets. We could construct the Stuart Highway within a reasonable time to the mutual benefit of South Australia and the Northern Territory. 
First of all might I say how interested I was in what my colleague,  Senator Missen,  said about the determinations of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, of which he is  Chairman.  I believe he raised some very interesting points, and I hope that the Government will pay regard to them. I would like to say how pleased I was with the reaction of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to parliamentary reports. I was pleased to receive a letter from him a few weeks ago saying that he had instructed his Ministers to pay regard to parliamentary reports and to inform the chairmen and the committees concerned of the action proposed to be taken by the various Ministers or departments that were referred to. I believe this is a progressive move by the present Government and one which ought to be encouraged. It is a travesty that parliamentary reports should be allowed to gather dust in the libraries of this place without any action being contemplated by the Government. I think the action by the Prime Minister is quite significant. 
The report to which I allude now is the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment which it presented in June this year on annual reports referred to it. One significant point made in the report concerns staff ceilings. Whereas I appreciate the need for the Government to keep the public sector expenditure at a reasonable level, nevertheless I am critical of the Government in some areas. In the report, under the heading of the Australian Institute of Marine Science, the Committee noted that the restrictions with respect to staff ceilings appeared to be an inhibition to research in a very important area of activity to Australia. I draw attention to page 1 1 of the report, which states: 
The Committee is concerned to see that because of such restrictions the Institute's staff as at 30 June 1977 totalled 60 instead of the 123 provided for in its development plan. The Institute can not be expected to properly influence national development in the field of marine science until it has at least the staff originally projected for it. 
I say that in all sincerity because it is of great consequence to Australia, particularly as we have expanded, and we have approved the extension in legislative form, our off-shore limits to 200 nautical miles. In my view this is a very important area of research and it should be encouraged by the Government, not discouraged by the restriction imposed by staff ceilings. Another point I mention at this stage relates to a statement made on page 1 1 of the report, which reads: 
This, no doubt, is in accord with the then Government's wishes when it set up the Institute in 1972. The Minister for Works at that time, when introducing the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill in the Senate on 23 May 1972, said: 'In accordance with the recommendations of the Interim Council it is intended, in the first instance, that the Institute should concentrate initially on problems relating to the Great Barrier Reef, the Coral Sea and the coast and adjacent waters of North Queensland '. 
I support that concept. But I believe that the expertise associated with this very important Institute ought to be expanded so that the Institute can pay due regard to the totality of the off-shore area of Australia. I commend that idea to the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  and to the Government because I believe that in future this resource- the area that I have describedwill be of tremendous importance to Australia. 
The report that we have before us, from the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, resulted in a unofficial way, from  Senator Melzer's  drawing to the attention of the Senate a program on, I believe, the Australian Broadcasting Commission's  Four Corners  which alerted the population to problems that seemed to be associated with certain pesticides. Members of the Committee felt that as one of its responsibilities was to exert a continuing surveillance of matters associated with the environment, we should take steps to inform ourselves on this matter. We decided to call before the Committee, not in a public forum but privately, members of the community who had some knowledge of the subject. Accordingly, we had discussions with  Mr L.  R. Kentwell, First Assistant Secretary, Agriculture and Food Services Division, Department of Primary Industry;  Mr J.  T. Snelson, Pesticides Co-ordinator, Pesticides, Agricultural Chemicals and Veterinary Drugs Section, Department of Agriculture who the day after we had discussions with him went overseas for conferences at The Hague of the world Food and Agricultural Organisation and who is regarded as a world authority on pesticides;  Dr W.  A. Langsford, First Assistant DirectorGeneral, Public Health Division, Department of Health;  Dr E.  G. Fitzsimmons, Director of the Toxicology Section, Department of Health and  Chairman  of the Poisons Schedule (Standing) Committee and Pesticides and Agricultural Chemicals (Standing) Sub-Committee, National Health and Medical Research Council;  Mr R.  E. M. Wilson, a pharmacist, and Secretary, Australian Drug Evaluation Committee, Department of Health; and  Mr B.  B. Brett, Executive Director, Agricultural and Veterinary Chemicals Association of Australia. 
The object of this exercise was to bring some facts before the members of the Committee so that they would be in a better position to understand the problems associated with the pesticides 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D. The Committee believes that, as the matter has been the subject of examination by three State committees- one in Victoria, one in Queensland and also I understand, one in 
South Australia- we ought to reserve our position until those reports are presented. I understand that the Victorian committee is about to report on this subject. I believe- I think this was the view expressed by the Committee- that we ought to be in a position to examine that report when it is presented and also the other reports that currently are being examined by the Queensland and South Australian governments. I believe that we will then be in a better position to assess the problems associated with this pesticide. 
We must bear in mind that these two pesticides have been in use in Australia for some 30 years or so. Little evidence, in my view, has been presented, to associate birth deformities with this form of pest control. The Committee, in its report, drew attention to the fact that insufficient data is collected on birth deformities in Australia. This aspect ought to be made quite clear. The Federal Department of Health and the State health departments ought to recognise the importance of collating information on birth deformities. 
Another point that is important with respect to pesticides and herbicides of all characters is that the labelling ought to have due regard to the people who are using the products. Many people in Australia do not fully understand the English language. Many Italians and Greeks involved in horticultural work may not be fully conversant with the English language. I believe that the Government ought to look at the possibility of providing different language interpretations of the instructions for the use of these chemicals. In many rural and agricultural areas people are not altogether familiar with the metric quantities  of  the pesticides that should be used. Whilst I recognise that the Government has taken the view that the metric system should be the standard of measurement in Australia, I believe in this instance that all labels should bear the imperial equivalents in order to avoid any misunderstanding. I make that point to the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  who is at the table. This is one of the areas of his responsibility. I believe that it is important for the Government to have regard to the people who are not altogether familiar with metric measurements. In this case I think we ought to insist, through the appropriate Commonwealth and State forum, that labels carry the imperial measures as well as the metric measures. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the considerable amount of confusion which exists over the procedure for slaughtering and certifying meat for export to Moslem countries? This matter has been highlighted in South Australia recently by the publicity given to the certification of meat by the Islamic community for the South Australian Meat Corporation. Is the Government concerned that this confusion could jeopardise the export of meat to Moslem countries? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware of the increase in the prices of liquor on the domestic airlines since the Budget was introduced? Can the Minister offer an explanation as to why the price of wine has been increased by 33W per cent in spite of the fact that wine was unaffected by the Budget provisions? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources aware that Mount Isa Mines Ltd, in association with other companies, has discovered uranium deposits at Olary in South Australia? Can the Minister say whether this is a viable proposition? In view of the difficulties that have arisen over the Ranger development and the consequent delays in fulfilling overseas orders, will the Government investigate the possibility of accelerating such projects in South Australia, that is, if the South Australian Government ceases to adopt a head in the sand attitude to development in that State? Is the Minister aware that Mount Isa Mines, in conjunction with the Australian mineral development organisation in South Australia has conducted extensive research into the in situ uranium leaching technique which is environmentally appealing and which could be used at Olary? Does the Minister also realise that because of Olary 's proximity to the Broken HillPort Pirie railway line, costly infrastructure could be avoided, with consequent economic advantages? 
Has the Minister for Science noted a report in yesterday's  Australian  of a Government undertaking to back a multi-million dollar venture with private industry to develop and market a revolutionary water treatment process developed in Australia by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation? I understand that the process is referred to as Sirotherm and that it involves the desalination and purification of water. Is the thrust of this article correct? What are the principles upon which Sirotherm depends? Where can honourable senators expect to find working examples of the Sirotherm process which may be inspected? 
I rise to express some concern about this measure, particularly as it affects people who have to accumulate leave through no fault of their own, although they would number few when one takes into consideration the number of people employed in Australia. I believe that the majority of people should take advantage of leave entitlements and not accumulate leave and I can see the dangers in allowing the present system to continue. It could encourage people to avoid tax by deliberately accumulating leave and that is the aspect of the Bill to which I believe we should be directing our attention. I have demonstrated previously my views with respect to retrospectivity. In fact, I voted with several of my colleagues against retrospectivity when the Curran scheme legislation was introduced into this place. 
No, you will not because I regard this legislation as being in a slightly different category. I did not see any honourable senators opposite supporting my stand against retrospectivity on that earlier occasion. I do not think that  Senator Chipp  joined us on that occasion either. 
I rise only to suggest to the Government that it ought to look at the proposition I am about to advance. People who are caught up in this legislation through no fault of their own, whether because of illness or the circumstances which have been described by  Senator Wriedt  in relation to small businesses, should be given the right of appeal so that in some way their difficulty could be overcome. 
I direct a question to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer, in a similar vein to the question asked by  Senator Young,  to the terrorist attacks in Rhodesia resulting in the murder of many hundreds of innocent men, women and children. Can the Minister provide me with information as to the extent to which these terrorists are being assisted by Cuban troops or Russian armed insurgents? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. Is the Minister aware of an item on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio news this morning stating that raw sewage was being discharged from the lower Molonglo River into the Mumimbidgee River system to the detriment of the water quality in that river? Can the Minister say how often this raw sewage has been discharged into the lower Molonglo River and what action the Government is taking to ensure that the health of people using water from the Mumimbidgee River is protected? 
-Can the Attorney-General inform me of the appropriate course of action that can be taken by a person or company that has been misrepresented by a State Minister of the Crown under privilege? I refer to an alleged statement of the South Australian AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Duncan,  which appeared in the Adelaide  Advertiser  on Saturday last, in which he is reported to have said in State Parliament last week: 
John Martins-- 
Which is a large retailing company in Adelaide-  was a large shareholder in Channel 10 and had considerable influence in the amount of money spent on commercial television stations in this State. 
He is also alleged to have said that television channels quickly caved in under sufficient pressure from John Martins to stop a consumer protection advertisement. As it has been publicly denied by  Mr Campbell,  the general manager of Channel 10, that John Martins has any shareholdings in Channel 10, and stated that the company has had no contact with the station with respect to the advertisement to which the Attorney-General has referred, and also as this subject was raised in the context of a Commonwealth inquiry into the renewing of television licences, will the Attorney-General examine the matter and inform the Senate how the rights of people can be protected in these circumstances? 
I rise to speak briefly in support of the thrust of the Bill, and to compliment the Government on its recognition of the importance to Australia of science and technology. Australia is facing a technological crisis, and the sooner we come to grips with the need to develop a total policy for science the better it will be. The Bill is a move in the right direction. 
I compliment my colleague,  Senator Puplick  and other honourable senators who have spoken for their contributions to the debate. The Government should take note of what has been said and in the future act upon the recommendations of honourable senators. I have noted in particular the need to maintain our communication with scientists overseas. I was rather disturbed recently to hear it suggested that the sending of scientific counsellors to represent us overseas should be discontinued. As  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, acting in furtherance of the wishes of the Committee, I wrote quickly to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  pointing out the urgency of retaining scientific representation overseas. It seems to me to be quite important that Australia should liaise consistently with overseas scientists on technological advances. I am still concerned that we are not providing sufficient staff at our embassies in other countries. I have spoken with scientific counsellors from our embassies in various parts of the world. For instance, in July I visited Japan as a member of a delegation and learnt that insufficient emphasis, in my opinion, was being placed on the scientific thrust of our overseas posts. I spoke today with a member of the embassy in the United States of America. He told me that he has with him on the staff in Washington one other officer and a stenographer. He has to deal with every facet of science in America. That is a very large task. The Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  will appreciate my point that on occasions staff ceilings present problems to the Government and, in fact, in many areas represent a retrograde step. 
The Minister will doubtless reflect upon the report on the Australian Institute of Marine Science that earlier this year I presented to the Senate. I pointed out then the significance of maintaining a full scientific staff at the Institute. I know that he would be sympathetic to that request. It seems incredible that at a time when we have increased our territorial sea limit to 200 nautical miles the staff of the AIMS should still be at something like 50 per cent of what it should be. I noted also that the Birch recommendation said that the extent of the involvement of CSIRO in marine science should await the examination of the whole matter by the Australian Science and Technology Council. I note that at page 7 of the report, under the heading 'The Need for Increased Attention' the following appears: 
ASTEC believes that the marine sciences and marine technologies are important to Australia. They are rapidly becoming increasingly so as activity on the Australian coastal margin increases through industry, shipping, waste disposal and recreation, and as international developments, such as those of the United Nations' Conference on the Law of the Sea, lead Australia to increased responsibilities, rights and opportunities in the marine area. 
That tends to bear out the claim that greater attention should be paid to our marine sciences and technology. Australia needs to come to grips with the question of a total policy which incorporates all areas of science.  Senator Baume  mentioned the social sciences, applied .sciences and pure sciences. Overcoming the problems of evolving this type of policy presents a tremendous challenge to the Government. 
Recently I spoke to someone who had been to England on sabbatical leave. He came to my office one day and mentioned the term 'tero technology', which I have never heard before, but apparently it relates to having a total technology concept. It appears to me that that type of technology would bear consideration by this Government. In the United Kingdom a small department has been set up under that heading. The idea is that it will bridge the gap between various areas of science, engineering and so on. It could well be of benefit to Australia to examine the department that has been established in that country. 
The Standing Committee on Science and the Environment is currently engaged in an examination of Australia's industrial research and development. The objective is to present early next year, hopefully by March or April, a report directing the attention of the Government to the need to do more in the area of research and development. I was very pleased to see that the Budget prescribed for research $24m, or an increase of $ 14m over the figure for last year. That is an indication that the Government recognises the importance of research to Australia. Recently the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment visited Western Australia.  Senator Mulvihill  will recall that we visited the establishment of the Sarich orbital engine. I mention this because the company is spending approximately $3m on this particular project. The end result will be an automotive engine which will be one-third the size of the conventional motor and in which less material is used. 
This is very important, bearing in mind the energy required to produce the material for these motors. The engine itself will use less fuel and will be less pollutant than a conventional engine. It seems to me that $3m is a great deal of money to be spending on developing an engine. Yet we learn that General Motors in America is spending over $140m this year- I think  Senator Mulvihill  will recall this- on one aspect of research into the conventional automotive engine. This seems to me to demonstrate how far removed we are from reality as far as research expenditure is concerned. I understand that Australia initiates about 1 per cent of the world 's research and development projects, whereas America 's contribution is around 50 per cent. 
I believe that the Government is acting in a progressive way with the introduction of this legislation. I am glad to hear that the Opposition is behind the measure and is giving its backing to the need for Australia to spend more money on research and development in this country in order to maintain our position in the world as an industrial nation. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Construction aware that complaints have been lodged about the inefficiency of air conditioning in the administrative section of the Adelaide Airport? I am sure that my colleagues have suffered recently in the environment there. Will the Minister investigate these complaints with the object of correcting any fault that may be present in the air conditioning system? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that expenditure of private health funds in South Australia on payouts for medical services rose steeply in the March quarter this year compared with last year? Can the Minister provide the exact percentage increase for each fund in South Australia? Will the Minister provide a comparative estimate of the increased payments for specialist and general practitioner services? Will she also provide these details for the States, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources aware that a wide cross-section of potential exporters is anxious that the Government proceed as a matter of urgency with the improvements to the export incentives scheme? Can the Minister say why the Government did not introduce legislation for export market development grants when last month it introduced the Export Expansion Grants Bill 1978 and the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Amendment Bill 1978? As delays to the package of Bills are inhibiting industry planning, will the Minister expedite the introduction of the export market development grants legislation so that it can be enacted before the end of this session? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Development aware that at a conference in Adelaide organised by the Murray Valley Development League, a dire warning was issued that the salinity problem, if left unchecked, would increase and would ultimately render the River Murray in South Australia virtually useless? The Minister may recall that in 1970 a Senate Standing Committee on Water Pollution tabled a report which in part recommended that urgent steps be taken to adopt a national approach to the management of water resources, which sets out acceptable standards, co-ordinates the aims and aspirations of State and local government authorities and creates the machinery to achieve them in balance with other national goals, such as those for growth and development. I ask the Minister: If this matter was considered urgent eight years ago, does he acknowledge how much more important such a measure would be today? Will the Minister urge his colleague, whom he represents in this place, to take positive action to ensure that acceptable water quality standards are reached, thereby safeguarding this vital water resource? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the unjustified accusation against South African Airways which was implicit in a question asked of him last week in which it was alleged that a coloured, former South African who now resides in Tasmania was refused a package holiday deal by this company. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an interview on  AM  last week with a public relations executive of the airline in which the gentleman refuted the statement, which was given wide publicity, that the airline applied an apartheid policy with respect to the issue of such tickets? I ask the Minister whether he can provide any further information on this matter as I believe that the South African airline has been seriously maligned by this misrepresentation. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I congratulate the Government on the initiative it is taking in recognising the importance of Senate Standing Committee reports, whether they be on annual reports or any other matter. I believe that this is a move in the right direction. This paper indicates that the Government has paid regard to the trouble taken by members and staff of the 
Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment in drawing to the Government's attention some aspects of the 13 reports that have been referred to. We did express - 
The honourable senator may care to make a speech on this report later on. I look forward to listening to what he will say. I am sure that the Government will take some notice of what he has to say in the vain hope that something may come from him that is constructive and worthy of implementation. Referring to the last part of the paper, I note the comment that was made about staff ceilings. I would draw to the Government's attention once again the need to pay serious attention to providing adequate staffing for organisations such as the Australian Institute of Marine Science which at present is grossly understaffed. I think the Government recognises the significance of the points that we have made and I look forward to further action in that respect. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the Joy report on railway standardisation which was presented to the Government some time ago. I am anxious to learn what stage has been reached by the Government in the study of that report and whether any decision has been made concerning the standardised line between Adelaide and Port Pirie? 
-Among other things, the Minister pointed to his concern about the Stuart Highway. I will not delay the Committee any longer but suggest that senators read the letter for their own information. The letter that I wrote to the Minister on 29 August put the view that the whole attitude of the Government to the question of national highways should be changed. I think it would be helpful if  Senator Bishop  expanded the terms of his motion. It seems that we could be picking off projects here there and everywhere. The Landsborough Highway in Queensland and a couple of sections of the national highway in Western Australia also need attention. People put these fragmentary suggestions time and time again. I think it would be far more constructive and sensible- I would certainly totally support it- for  Senator Bishop  to widen the terms of his motion to include the broad national approach. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer and I refer to the recent Loan Council meeting. Is the Minister aware that since this meeting the Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia has expressed concern that the overseas countries which lend money to State governments might attempt to tie the loans to massive import deals requiring Australia to import the plant and machinery to be used in approved projects? Will the Minister, through the Treasurer, reassure the Association that where possible goods and services arising from the loans will be generated from Australian sources? Does the Minister agree with the contention put forward by the Association that overseas orders should not be placed unless the Loan Council is satisfied that this requirement has been met? 
I certainly support what  Senator Bishop  has said. As he well knows, on a number of occasions I have made representations to the Government concerning this particular highway. I believe it is very important that the Government recognise the need to provide and develop national assets at a time when the construction industry is depressed. National assets will contribute in the long term to national development and the provision of job opportunities. Stuart Highway, to which the motion refers, would fall within that category because, in order to develop the mineral potential of the northern part of South Australia one must have transport facilities of that type. Not far from the Highway is the huge Roxby Downs area, which has one of the largest deposits of copper in the world. Unhappily for South Australia it has in it some uranium. For that reason, the State Government refuses to develop it. 
-Of course it is. This is because of the backward attitude of the Australian Labor Party which, at the Perth conference, said Keep uranium in the ground', while everyone else in the world is selling it and capitalising on it. Also, Lake Frome is not far away. It is the site of 22,000 tons of uranium oxide. That too could be developed if the State Government moved in a proper and responsible way for the development of South Australia. If it did that the mine could be put into production more quickly than could the Ranger mine. I suggest  Senator Bishop  appreciates what that could means to South Australia. The mine, in its development stages, would require the provision of $ 100m worth of plant. This could easily be prefabricated at 
Whyalla and some 1,000 job opportunities could be provided. The uranium enrichment plant which would naturally follow- if we could regain lost ground- would provide far more jobs in the long term then would even the Redcliff petrochemical project. However, in order to develop all those projects we have to have a transport facility. That is why I have put a high priority on it. 
If we go a little west of Coober Pedy we find Lake Phillipson, which has vast coal deposits. In the future, coal will be a substantial energy source for Australia and some years hence that vast coal deposit could probably contribute to a gasification program in South Australia. That is why I believe that the Government must give consideration to providing increased funding for the construction of the Stuart Highway. 
At present this is, of course, a question of policy. Under the national highways scheme, as  Senator Bishop  knows only too well, the Federal Government provides the States with a lump sum for construction and the question of priorities is left to the State governments concerned. Unfortunately- I can see the reasons behind it- the State Government has not been able to give the Highway a sufficiently high priority to spend any money on its construction. I am glad to learn that  Mr Virgo  intends spending something like $ lm on it. This will go part of the way to constructing the SO kilometre stretch between Port Augusta and Woomera. It amounts to peanuts so far as this national highway is concerned. It is estimated to cost somewhere between $70m and $100m. If we spend Sim a year it will be 70 to 100 years before we finish it. That is why I wrote to the Minister again not long ago, reminding him of the urgency of this project and that it is a national asset which, if it were constructed quickly, would help the construction industry in South Australia, would contribute to the mutual development of the State of South Australia and the Northern Territory and would provide a tremendous stimulus to business in South Australia which I believe, is being lost now largely because the road from the Northern Territory to Queensland is constructed. It is estimated that South Australia is losing of the order of $80m a year because of that. 
This does involve a policy change.  Senator Bishop  might like to broaden the motion to include, perhaps, the provision of a special fund for the Federal Minister to allocate for special projects in the national highways area according to his priorities. In South Australia the Government is spending its money on the south-eastern freeway, the widening of the Cavan bridge, which is desirable- we cannot expect the State 
Government to stop those projects- and the widening of the highway between Port Augusta and Port Pirie. It is in my view, a reasonable suggestion that the Government ought to consider what I put to the Minister recently, namely, a reassessment of the policy with respect to national highways in order that a special, additional fund can be provided to the Federal Minister for allocation to a national highway that he believes needs special attention. 
I think we have to look at this in a national sense, although I entirely support the spirit of the motion that  Senator Bishop  has put forward. We must remember that there are other national highways that have to be constructed as well. Whilst I certainly would give the Stuart Highway No. 1 priority, I think that we have to look at the implications of the change in policies suggested in this motion. I do support it. I hope that the Government will give serious consideration to what I have said. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney),  who is at the table, might care to take the thoughts that I have just expressed, in addition to the letter I have written to the Minister, to the Government and ask it to have another look at the whole policy associated with national highways. 
-I will take up the time of the Committee for a moment or two. I have certainly supported the need for upgrading this highway for a number of years. I have pointed to the need for a transport facility in order that the northern part of South Australia can be developed in the future. I suggest that honourable senators opposite might consider what I have said. We could perhaps make a bipartisan approach to the Premier of South Australia in order to get some development going in that State. We have done this in relation to Redcliff and we have done it in relation to other matters. I think that is an idea that my colleagues opposite perhaps ought to take on board. I have before me a letter that was written to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  following the deputation in May this year to which  Senator Bishop  referred. I will read it. It was drafted by  Senator Bishop  and myself and signed by the senators who attended that deputation and by  Mr Wallis  and  Mr Calder  who also attended. We wrote to the Minister for Transport: 
In view of the importance of the Stuart Highway to the development of South Australia and the Northern Territory and the unanimous concern expressed by the delegation today that additional Commonwealth funds be provided to accelerate the planning and construction of this road, we respectfully request that you make a further approach to Cabinet for a special allocation for this purpose. 
The South Australian Government has spent a further $ 1 8.79m over the last 4 years on the State National Highway Programme, and it is reasonable to expect that this should be reimbursed, provided it is spent on the Stuart Highway. 
As the Highway is currently estimated to cost approximately $64m, it is clear that unless more funds are provided it will take 20 or 30 years to complete at the proposed rate of spending. 
It is felt that an urgent capital works programme should be approved in order that this road, the only national highway remaining unsealed in the State, can be completed within 8 years. 
I have a copy of the Minister's reply, which I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Parliament House, Canberra, ACT 2600 11 July 1978 
Dear  Senator Jessop, 
I refer to your recent representations on behalf of yourself and a number of other Senators and Members concerning the development of the Stuart Highway in South Australia. 
I was pleased to have the opportunity to meet with the Parliamentary deputation from South Australia and the Northern Territory in Canberra on 23 May. I would hope that as a result of the meeting those present are aware of the importance the Commonwealth places on the sealing of this National Highway route. 
You requested that I make an approach to Cabinet for a special allocation to South Australia to accelerate reconstruction of the Stuart Highway. As I have previously pointed out in response to similar requests, it is not Government policy to provide special grants to a State for road projects outside normal funding arrangements. However, following representation by the deputation, I gave an undertaking that I would approach Cabinet for an allocation of $2. 3m for construction on the Stuart Highway this financial year. 
I am not able, however, to agree to your proposition that the Commonwealth should consider reimbursing the South Australian Government for amounts which it claims it has spent from State resources on National Highways over the past four years. Under the States Grants (Roads) Act, the States are required to spend from their own funds a specified minimum amount on roads in order to be eligible for the Commonwealth grants. While all approved works on National Highways are eligible for complete funding by the Commonwealth, the States are free to direct their own funds to this or any other category depending on where they see their priorities. 
In the circumstances I do not believe that it would be proper to pursue the course you have suggested. I am sure you will also appreciate that it would be unequitable to other States to do so. 
The main thrust of South Australia's National Highways construction activity in recent years has been directed to sealing the Eyre Highway and building the South-Eastern Freeway between Adelaide and Murray Bridge. The bulk of the $66m provided to the State by the Commonwealth over the last four years has been directed towards these works. Now that the Eyre Highway is sealed, and with the anticipated opening of the South-Eastern Freeway in mid- 1979, 1 believe the way should be clear for the State Minister of Transport,  Mr Virgo,  to allocate a significant and increasing proportion of South Australia's National Highways construction funds to the reconstruction and sealing of the Stuar Highway. 
I expect that this will enable a satisfactory rate of progress to be achieved on the sub-standard section between Pimba and the Northern Territory border. 
In his 1978-79 National Highways Program  Mr Virgo  has included construction works on the Stuart Highway estimated to cost $330,000. 1 am not satisfied, however, that this represents a sufficient level of effort in view of the priority which the Government attaches to development of the Stuart Highway. I am therefore pressing  Mr Virgo  to spend at least Sim in National Highway funds on Stuart Highway construction this year. 
Yours sincerely, P. J. NIXON 

 Senator D. S. Jessop, Commonwealth Parliament Offices, 1 King William Street, Adelaide, SAS000 
I totally agree with what the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  has said. I would support  Senator Bishop  if he were to broaden his motion so that it read along the lines: 'The Committee is of the opinion that the Australian Government should establish a special fund to enable the Federal Minister to direct additional finance to special national highway projects'. If he wanted to highlight the Stuart Highway in particular, I would be happy to support him. As the motion is worded now it really weakens the argument that I am putting to the Minister on a national basis. I will continue to help  Senator Cavanagh  in his efforts to get this highway built. I have helped  Mr Wallis  who I know has been doing his very best. 
I certainly will give my total support to anything that they care to do, provided it will influence the Government on a national basis to change its policy. We cannot just pick off roads here and there, will-nilly. We have tried. We have supported the idea of special funding for (hat road but we have been rejected by the Government on that basis. I suggest that if  Senator Bishop  broadens his motion it will get more support from the other States representation in this chamber. I think that is a sensible approach. If  Senator Bishop  cares to rephrase his motion I will support it. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I refer to comments attributed to  Mr L.  J. Curtis, First Assistant Secretary of the Federal Attorney-General's Department, during a debate at the annual national conference of the Royal Institute of Public Administration in Adelaide last week.  Mr Curtis  was reported in last Friday's edition of the Adelaide  Advertiser  to have said that the High Court's rejection a fortnight ago of the Government's claim of privilege for documents in the Sankey case is certain to lead to changes in the Freedom of Information Bill. Does the Attorney-General share this view? Does he consider that the High Court ruling has advanced the law and in essence supports claims that the Bill as proposed is inadequate, that the wide range of possible exemptions from disclosure will excessively limit access to information and that too much is left to the discretion of a Minister and public servants to determine what is in the public interest? 
-I present a supplementary report from the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment arising from follow-up action on the report of May 1977 relating to the inquiry into the impact on the Australian environment of the woodchip industry program. 
Ordered that the supplementary report be printed. 
-by leave-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
On 28 November 1974 the Senate resolved that the matter of the impact on the Australian environment of the current woodchip program be referred to the then Standing Committee on Social Environment. 
The Social Environment Committee embarked upon an investigation of this reference during the autumn session of Parliament in 1 975. On 1 1 November 1975 the inquiry was halted by the dissolution of Parliament and subsequent federal election, but was resumed in March 1976 by the newly formed Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment. The inquiry continued through 1976, culminating in the tabling of the Committee's report entitled Woodchips and the Environment' on 24 May 1977. That report set out the Committee's recommendations and proposals. Recommendations were addressed to Federal Ministers. The proposals, on the other hand, concern matters falling outside the federal sphere and were put forward by the Committee in a spirit of constructive co-operation for consideration by State government and the timber industry. 
At the beginning of the autumn session of the 1978 Parliament the Committee felt that it should review the situation with respect to the matters discussed in its woodchip report. It accordingly resolved to contact all those to whom recommendations and proposals had been addressed, requesting comment on any action taken having a bearing on the findings of the report. In this connection the Committee recognises that the development and implementation of techniques for the protection of the environment is a continuing process on which many influences are brought to bear. The Committee accordingly acknowledges that its report, whilst summarising and crystallising much of this process, is itself one ofthe influences and not necessarily the mainspring for all subsequent action. 
An excellent response was received to the Committee's request for comment, replies being received from all but one of those contacted. In addition, unsolicited comments were received from two contributors. The Committee is very pleased with this high level of interest and acknowledges with gratitude the courteous cooperation of all respondents. The action of the Committee in seeking comment on its recommendations from Federal Ministers was taken within the framework of the resolution agreed to by the Senate without division in March 1973 by which the Senate declared its opinion that the Government, within three months of a committee report being tabled, should itself table a paper informing the Senate of its observations and intentions with respect to recommendations in the report. It is of interest that the Senate Standing Orders Committee, in its report tabled 3 May 1978, commented on this 1973 resolution pointing out that little direct action had resulted from that resolution and that there had been only one Government response in the way suggested. It went on to recommend that the Senate adopt a resolution to the effect that the  President  should forward to the Leader of the Government in the Senate a copy of tabled reports requesting that the Government, within the ensuing three months and not later than the first sitting day after three months, table a paper informing the Senate of its observations and intentions with respect to the recommendations made in the report. It proposed that the  President  should report to the Senate any cases in which there has been no response from the Government pursuant to the resolution. 
Subsequently, on 25 May 1978, the Prime Minister, the Rt Hon. J. M. Fraser, made a statement in the House of Representatives relating to Federal Government consideration of committee reports in which he said that henceforth, within six months of the tabling of a committee report, the responsible Minister will make a statement in the Parliament outlining the action the Government proposes to take in relation to the report. The Committee's decision to follow up the woodchip report of May 1978 predates the report of the Standing Orders Committee as well as the Prime Minister's statement. However, the supplementary report being tabled today falls within the scope of both. The Committee accordingly looks forward to a statement within six months, from the Ministers responsible, relating to the recommendations made in the supplementary report. 
In general the Committee has been impressed by the careful consideration which evidently has been given to the findings of the inquiry. This is particularly true of the responses from State governments and their associated forestry authorities, which, from the depth of their replies, obviously have heeded the Committee's advice that recommendations and proposals be studied in the light of the main text of the sections of the report dealing with the topic under discussion. Unfortunately, in a few cases, this does not appear to have been done. This lack gives rise to some of the recommendations in the present supplementary report. In particular, it is the Committee's view that responses to the extremely important recommendations relating to wildlife preservation, conservation of genetic characteristics and possible depletion of forest soil nutrients, cannot have sprung from a considered study of the detailed matter supporting them. These recommendations accordingly are referred back to the Minister responsible for further, deeper consideration. 
Chapter 1 1 of the report entitled 'Woodchips and the Environment', tabled in May 1977, deals with the topic of land use planning. Several recommendations and proposals in that report relate to land use policy. In particular, proposal 1 advocated agreement being sought between Federal and State governments on a national land use policy. Responses from State authorities to this proposal indicate recognition of the need for land use policies. This need also was recognised in 1974 by the Forestry and Wood-based Industries Development Conference of that year. Recommendation 1 of that Conference was 'that the governments of Australia should foster a national policy for land use '. 
The Committee is disappointed at the apparent lack of progress either from the FORWOOD conference or its own proposals, the more so since much work has been done in Australia on the methodology of land use planning. Various tools have also been developed to facilitate the task. 
The Committee believes that the time is now ripe to carry this whole topic forward into practical effect. It is accordingly recommending that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  submit proposals to Cabinet for a mechanism to allow integrated consideration of national land use issues, and that the Prime Minister set up a framework for the establishment of a national land use policy. 
One aspect of land use planning involves consideration of the conservation of fauna and flora in parks and reserves. Chapter 10 of the report of May 1977 deals with this subject, including the theory of parks and reserves, their adequacy, and government activity directed towards expanding their area. The Committee reported there that much remains to be done, and it expressed the need for prompt, positive action. It is essential that governments recognise this urgency and give priority to the provision of a system of reserves based on the full range of ecological factors needed for adequate conservation. 
The Committee is disquitened that none of the responses to proposals on this topic reflect in any way the thrust and urgency of the findings of the Committee's inquiry. The Committee accordingly is now further recommending that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development draw up and promulgate, in collaboration with the States, a national policy for the development of an adequate system of national parks and conservation reserves. Such national policy should take account of their definition and status; biological and social importance; adequacy and selection, design and management. 
It would be remiss of me if I did not acknowledge the invaluable support given to the Committee by the secretariat under the guidance of our secretary,  Mr Peter  Dawe. It is very easy for honourable senators to take for granted this assistance, which I believe stems from dedication  of all the staff members and without which it would be impossible to present constructive reports of this nature to the Senate. I commend the report to honourable senators. 
I also would like to take the opportunity on the first reading of the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill to make a comment about the subject to which  Senator McLaren  has just referred. I must say that I become a little tired of the way  Senator McLaren  raves and rants about my attitude to this subject. For a long time my attitude has been unaltered. Long before  Senator McLaren  became a member of this Parliament I was actively engaged in promoting the interests of national highways in South Australia. I continue to do so and give the Stuart Highway my top priority among national highways.  Mr President,  as you know I, along with other colleagues from South Australia, have made the point time and time again about providing a special fund to ensure that the Stuart Highway is completed. That proposal has been rejected. My suggestion the other night which was ignored, unfortunately, by the Australian Labor Party senators from South Australia - 
I am not backing out of it. I must say that I get very tired of the cackle that comes from the back bench on the opposite side of the chamber. I can hold my head high in 
South Australia and I will continue to do so, but it is of regret to me that  Senator Bishop  did not recognise the wisdom of my suggestion. I asked him to expand the terms of the motion which he moved the other day to include all national highways and to give the Stuart Highway priority. Had he accepted that suggestion, I feel quite sure that the motion would have received the total support of the Senate. I regret that he did not do so. I will continue my efforts to persuade the Government to provide additional funds for national highways. I will continue to lend my advocacy to the point that I have made repeatedly, that is, that the Stuart Highway should have priority. As I understand it, it is the only national highway yet to link two major centres of Australia. I will continue to lend my support to that end. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, who also represents the Minister for Trade and Resources. I draw attention to the cover story in the latest issue of the  Bulletin  which has the rather dismal headline 'Will South Australia Become the Peasant State?' Has the Minister noted the article? Has he noted that the article states that if Australia is a lucky country South Australia is the unlucky State? Has he noted that it mentions the dryness of the State, which prevents productive farming to a large degree, and that it also mentions that, with the exception of the recently discovered Roxby Downs mineral deposit, the State has had no exciting mineral find for a century? 
Is the Minister aware that the South Australian Mines Department has estimated that the mineralisation of Roxby Downs in terms of copper is about five times the size of Mount Isa and that the ore body contains one lb of uranium oxide per tonne and gold of up to 15 pennyweights per tonne, which makes it a viable mining operation? Is the Minister also aware of the somersault performed by the South Australian Premier in Perth at the Australian Labor Party Conference when he posed as an anti-uranium exponent who prevents the development of uranium in South Australia, to the detriment of the State? Is it a fact that the South Australian Uranium Enrichment Advisory Committee is still in existence and is continuing to function? 
What progress has been made in the siting of a uranium enrichment plant in Australia? In view ofthe fact that there is a considerable amount of uranium in South Australia and that industry-- 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to a statement made by the Minister for Transport that an inquiry would be carried out into all aspects of general aviation. I would like to know when the inquiry will begin and where it will be carried out. In view of the concern expressed by some general aviation representatives that a closed departmental inquiry would not allow all sectors of the industry adequately to present their views, will the Government ensure that the inquiry will be carried out in public? 
The Senate is discussing the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978. One of the aspects of this Bill about which I am particularly concerned is the additional imposition that is being placed on Australian brandy. The excise on brandy has a long history which is particularly well known to South Australians. I regret very much that the Government has chosen to disregard the significance of representations that have been made to it over a year or so with respect to this issue by members from both sides of the Parliament. In March this year I asked a question of  Senator Webster,  the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, following other representations I had made to Ministers concerned with this matter. At that time, I referred to the present serious over-supply of wine grapes and I asked: 
In view of the great success which attended the move of the then Government in the Budget of 19S4 to allow an excise differential of 30s per proof gallon of Australian brandy as against other potable spirits, will the Government give urgent consideration to the immediate reintroduction of a differential in equivalent monetary terms to the differential allowed at that time? 
I drew attention to the fact that brandy production requires, I think, roughly three times more- the amount varies according to whom one speaks about the matter but it is considerably more- than the amount used in wine production. This was also pointed out in 1975, of course, in the Coombs Task Force report. I quote from page 353 of that document as follows: 
The preferential rates of excise and customs duties for brandy were introduced in 19S4. Excise and customs duties on all potable spirits have been increased twice since 19S4. On each occasion the differential in favour of brandy was retained at the original absolute amount. 
NATURE OF THE COMMITMENT 
The rates of duty are set out in the Schedule to the Excise Tariff and the Schedule to the Customs Tariff. 
PURPOSE OF THE CONCESSION 
The excise differential in favour of brandy was introduced as an emergency measure to assist the grape-growing industry to dispose of a glut of surplus grapes which had emerged at the time. The reduction in the retail prices of brandy thereby effected was seen as boosting demand for brandy and thereby providing an incentive for distillers to process surplus grapes. The rate of customs duty was reduced at the same time, as it is tied to the excise rate. 
This, of course, had a desirable effect on sales. The adverse effect of this type of excise was adequately demonstrated in the 12 months following an earlier increase in excise- from September 1973 to August 1974- when there was a fall of approximately 24 per cent in Australian brandy clearances. However, that year was a year of exceptionally high income increases in Australia. The South Australian Department of Economic Development and Department of Agriculture and Fisheries estimate that the real impact of the 1973 brandy excise rise was a first round loss of sales of approximately 30 per cent compared with likely sales had the impost not been made. It is fairly difficult, I suppose, to make a firm judgment on the precise effect on sales. Various percentages have been put forward and claimed to be accurate. The econometric model which was produced by Professor Burley of La Trobe University suggested, I think, that the anticipated downturn in sales would be 35 per cent to 39 per cent. However, the Department of Primary Industry, for some reason or other, makes an assessment of a 5 per cent to 6 per cent downturn in sales. 
That seems to be quite incredible, particularly in the light of what I have just said about an earlier increase in excise demonstrating accurately a fall in sales of 24 per cent. It is a considerable blow to the grape growers and brandy producers, particularly those in South Australia who have their properties in the Riverland area. As you well know,  Mr President,  the Riverland produces about 85 per cent of the brandy for the whole of Australia. I think that the State itself produces slightly in excess of 90 per cent. The effect on the Riverland people will be, according to the industry and its predictions, that those producers are likely to lose about $7.7m over a twoyear period. In my view this seems to be a quite incredible prediction. Whether it is entirely accurate is difficult to say, but we can see that there will be a considerable loss of income for people in that area when we have regard to the fact that this excise measure will bring into Consolidated Revenue about $3.85m a year. The industry has made some comments that have been reported in the Press. For example, the Wine and Brandy Producers Association of South Australia issued a Press statement which appeared in the  Advertiser  on Saturday, 7 October. It said in part: 
South Australia Brandy producers expect a 40 per cent to 50 per cent drop in sales by November. 
-That was said by the South Austraiian brandy producers. I gather that it implies that it is South Australia. The figures apparently are not quite so bad as that now, but they seem to indicate that there will be a decrease in sales of about 25 per cent. It is a substantial decrease. I must say in defence of the Government at this stage that certainly it could well have considered an impost on wine. That would have been very serious indeed. I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  to consider what that action would have done to the Australian grape growing and wine making industries had it been contemplated. I think we can thank the Government in that respect. I know that the industry appreciates the action of the Government in not imposing a tax on wine. However, as I understand it, the industry is faced with a surplus this year of 95,000 to 100,000 tonnes of grapes. I have to be critical of the Government here because I believe that it should have waited until the Industries Assistance Commission report had been presented before making a judgment and increasing the excise on Austraiian brandy by 83.6 per cent. I think that was a bad thing to do. It would not have cost the Government very much in revenue if it had waited and deliberated after the IAC report was presented. It would have saved a lot of unnecessary heartburn for the grape growers in South Australia in particular. 
A surplus of 95,000 to 100,000 tonnes is a large amount of grapes for the forthcoming 1979 vintage. The following year the situation will be worse because some grape vines have not yet come into full production. So we are going to be faced with an incredible problem, I think, the year after next. If we preserved a differential of at least 30 per cent between the excise on Australian brandy and the excise on other potable spirits such as Scotch whisky, the main competitor, I believe that some of the surplus grapes would be used. As I have said previously, the quantity of grapes required in brandy production is three or four times the quantity used in wine production. A differential excise on brandy would mean that a considerable amount of surplus grapes could be used for brandy production. Of course, sales of brandy would increase. I believe that is a very important consideration for the Government. I note with some satisfaction that the Minister has written into the second reading speech that the Government will reassess the position. He said: 
The Government has received representations on behalf of the Australian brandy manufacturing industry in relation to the effect of this measure on the industry. We are concerned with the position of Australian brandy producers. Indeed although the Budget applied increases equally to all excisable spirits, it provided no new impost on Australian wine. Demonstrably this action has already stimulated domestic demand. 
That is true; sales of wine have picked up to quite a large extent. 
White wine in particular; but I believe that there is now an increase in demand for red wine as well. It seems to me that we should be encouraging a little more red wine drinking. I think this concern about its chemical constituents is a lot of nonsense. 
I suppose that it is a question of how much one drinks. I think one would get the same effect whether one drank three or four bottles of white wine or red wine. Wrong estimates of the effects of histamines, in my view, have caused the red wine industry some problems. The consumption will pick up and people will drink more red wine this coming season. I was also happy to see that the Government is prepared to consider carefully these representations that have already been made by the brandy industry when the Industries Assistance Commission's report on portable spirits is presented to Parliament. Again, I could be critical of the IAC because it seems to take a long time to prepare these reports. To my knowledge, this is about the fifth report on this industry. I understand that the report was supposed to have been presented to the Government in June of this year. It still has not been presented. It is expected that the report will be presented at about the end of the year. Another report is being prepared on the wine and grape growing industry, which is  expected to arrive on the Minister's table in June or July of next year. I hope that that happens and that we are not faced with another protracted wait, perhaps until the end of next year, for that report. I certainly will be looking forward to reading that report. I ask the Minister to take note that, at that stage, I could well be moving a motion in the Senate for a differential in the excise to give Australian brandy an advantage over scotch whisky. 
A great deal has been said on this subject. I believe that  Senator Teague  set out very clearly in his speech on the Budget the matters of substance that have to be considered. I would like to quote from newspaper cuttings which demonstrate some of the views that have been expressed about this issue. The headline in the Murray Pioneer of Thursday, 2 November, reads: 'Brandy Tax a Savage Blow-  Sir Alexander  Downer Urges Combined Action'. The article states: 
Although I support the Federal Government's overall strategy in the battle against inflation their assault on the brandy producers seems incomprehensible folly which can be defeated only by the combined action of all concerned. 
That gentleman, being a distinguished South Australian, is very knowledgeable about that area. I noted also a letter which was written to the editor of the  Loxton News  by  Mr Lind,  who is the General Manager of the Loxton Cooperative Winery and Distillery Ltd. I ask leave to incorporate that letter in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 


 Letter from 
 Mr Lind 22 August, 1978 
The Editor, 
The Loxton News Pty 
Limited, 
East Terrace, 
Loxton, SA 5333 

 Sir, 

As General Manager of the Loxton Co-operative Winery and Distillery Limited and as an involved member of both the Loxton and Riverland communities I wish to vigorously condemn that section of the avarice 1978 Federal Budget that may well bring ruin to an already depressed Australian Brandy Industry. It seems most unlikely that Australian brandy distillers and Australian wine grape growers particularly those in the South Australian Riverland will be able to survive this latest serving of bureaucratic ineptitude. 
One cannot help but be amazed at the callous disregard in which the Federal Government holds the Wine Grape and Australian Brandy Industries. To illustrate this point the following table details the changes in Brandy Excise over the last six years. The table also details of consumption of Australian Brandy and the revenue generated for the Federal Government. 

<graphic href="079232197811233_73_1.jpg"></graphic>

Thus it can be readily seen that over the last six years duty has risen from $3.08 per litre of alcohol to $ 1 8.75 per litre of alcohol or an increase of 608 per cent over the period. Brandy Excise during that time has contributed just over one hundred and thirty six million dollars ($136,715,634) to Federal Government revenue. It is worthy of note that this information is sourced from the Australian Bureau of Statistics (N.B. these figures are apart from sales tax and state licence fees). 
To me the complete injustice of this 'rip-off' lies in the fact that up till now the wine grape industry has been one of the remaining few, non-subsidised, primary industries in Australia. In fact the reverse is probably true, that is, on a per capita basis it must be one of the most overtaxed revenue generating industries in Australia and still, Federal Governments are bent on its destruction. 
To put increased Federal Government Excise Duty into another perspective I ask that the following be considered. It is conservatively forecast that the 83.6 per cent increase in Brandy Excise will result in a reduction of clearances (sales) of Australian Brandy for the financial year 1978-79, in the order of 35 per cent. The financial year 1978-79 has had the first of its six weeks subject to the old rate of excise whilst the remaining forty six weeks will be subject to the new rate of excise. Had the entire 1978-79 financial year been subject to the new rate then the loss in clearances, would be at 39 per cent. 
Our estimates therefore indicate, that as a result of the excise increase the Federal Government will collect an additional 3.8 million dollars by 30 June 1979, bringing it to a level of 32.8 million dollars for the financial year. 
At the new level of clearance the level of stock currently held is in excess of 13 million Lal. The balance between stocks and clearances is grossly out of proportion. At the predicted level of clearances for the year ended 30 June 1979, (of 1.855 million lal.) a stock holding of no more than 9 million Lal. could be warranted. Therefore, at least one entire production period ( 1979 Vintage) must be avoided in order to balance stocks and sales. At the 1978 levels of production of approximately 2.8 million Lal. this would result in an additional grape surplus of 3 1,800 tonnes. At an average price per tonne of $125 for Brandy grapes this will mean that grape growers will suffer a loss of revenue to the extent of 3.98 million dollars. In other words, the Government's nett gain from excise alone is fully matched by a loss in revenue on part of the grape growers, the producing Brandy firms, will at the same time suffer losses in turnover, thus in taxable profit. 
Had the Government not changed the excise, then clearances of Australian Brandy would have risen and therefore also revenue collected if one uses the Government's own prediction of 4 per cent real growth and 5 per cent inflation. 
If the loss of 31,800 tonnes could be absorbed via additional sales of wine, which is highly unlikely because of varietal mix, then total wine sales would have to grow by 11.2 per cent between 1977-78 and 1978-79, and this appears too optimistic an outlook when considering the general state of economy. 
During the last six months there have been at least three industry deputations to the Federal Government arguing the case for Brandy Excise reduction. It is absolutely amazing to think that such experienced industry leaders as make up the Australian Wine Board, The Australian Wine and Brandy Producers' Association and The Wine and Brandy Cooperative Producers' Association should see their advice to Government ignored. 

 Sir, if this heartless and destructive piece of legislation is not reversed within fourteen days or less then the future of wine grape growing and processing in the Riverland of South Australia will be at an end. 
I would like to think that all Riverland wine grape growers and public spirited citizens will join with me in acquainting the Federal Government via our Federal member of our absolute condemnation of any increase in Federal Brandy Excise and not rest until this heinous imposition has been removed. 
B. LIND 
-I quote from page 2 of that letter where  Mr Lind  states: 
To put increased Federal Government Excise Duty into another perspective I ask that the following be considered. It is conservatively forecast that the 83.6 per cent increase in Brandy Excise will result in a reduction of clearances (sales) of Australian Brandy for the financial year 1978-79, in the order of 35 percent. 
This letter cites another figure. A 39 per cent reduction in sales was forecast by another authority and 35 per cent is cited in this letter. The Department estimated a figure of 5 per cent or 6 per cent. I am more inclined to believe that the reduction would be of the order of 20 per cent to 30 per cent rather than 5 per cent. Let us look at the position in 12 months' time. The letter continued: 
The financial year 1 978-79 has had the first of its six weeks subject to the old rate of excise whilst the remaining forty six weeks will be subject to the new rate of excise. Had the entire 1978-79 financial year been subject to the new rate then the loss in clearances would be at 39 per cent. 
I think that letter spells out the industry's concern fairly well and gives an indication of the consumption per litre of alcohol and the prevailing duties. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was talking about my concern at the impost which the Budget places on Australian brandy. I had pointed out the severe effects of this legislation on the grape growing industry in South Australia, particularly in the Riverland area. I do not intend to delay the Senate unduly because I believe that I have made the points I wished to make. However, I suggest to the 
Government that, when it is considering the Industries Assistance Commission report which is expected to be presented at the end of this year, and also the other report which I hope will be presented in mid- 1979, it should take heed of what I have said about the need to provide an excise differential on Australian brandy as opposed to imported potable spirits. In my view an excise differential is essential for the continued healthy existence of the brandy and wine growing industry in Australia. In conclusion, I remind the Minister of the point that I made about putting before the Senate, after I have had a chance to examine the IAC report, a motion the thrust of which would be to emphasise the need to provide an excise differential on Australian brandy as opposed to other spirits. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, with apologies to  Senator Townley  for encroaching on his area of expertise. I refer to the Touchfone which is so aptly named by Telecom Australia. I understand that when this improved instrument was introduced a charge of $50 was made for its installation and that, at present, that charge has been reduced to $38. As I believe this still represents a touch, I request that the Minister examine the possibility of enabling telephone subscribers to replace old telephones with this new device at a substantially reduced charge. Can the Minister tell me whether a charge is applied to new subscribers for this improved device? If so, will the Minister negotiate to see that that charge is removed? 
-I present the official report of the Australian parliamentary delegation which visited Japan during July 1978 and I seek leave to make a brief statement in respect of the report. 
Leave granted. 
As we all know, Japan is Australia's largest export market and I was particularly grateful to have been given the opportunity of visiting that country for the first time as a member of the Australian parliamentary delegation. During the period we spent in Japan we had significant interviews with prominent Ministers including the Prime Minister,  Mr Fukuda,  and the Foreign Minister,  Mr Sonada.  We also met representatives of all the political parties as well as leaders in the steel, atomic energy, electronics, motor vehicle and fishing industries. We had very useful discussions on matters of mutual interest. This report highlights aspects of the tour which we believe are significant and some of the matters raised require attention and action by the Government. The delegation's report draws attention particularly to the exorbitant air fares between Australia and Japan and urges the Government to exert every effort to have these air fares substantially reduced. As we all know, the Japanese are enthusiastic tourists and it is felt that a reduction in air fares would result in a marked increase in the tourist flow between the two countries. The Government should also give further encouragement to cultural exchange between the two countries as a way of promoting a greater understanding between our two peoples. 
I believe that the members of the delegation worked particularly well together in the interests of Australia when we visited that country. 1 would like to pay particular tribute to  Mr Ian  Cochran, the Serjeant-at-Arms who was our Secretary, and also to  Mr Don  Dobinson, the Foreign Affairs liaison officer. The assistance of those officers was invaluable and without their expert attention and guidance the results achieved by the delegation would not have been anywhere near as successful as they were. I draw the attention of honourable senators to the fact that copies of this report are available in the Par.liamentary Library or in the Journals Office for anybody who would like to look at it. I commend the report to honourable senators. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the Industries Assistance 
Commission inquiries into the brandy and grape growing industries. As this is a matter of great concern to South Australia, will the Minister say when these reports are expected to be presented? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister will recall the question I asked yesterday concerning the Industries Assistance Commission inquiries- and there are twointo the spirits and spirituous beverages industry and the reference concerning grapes and wine, which I understand was sent to the IAC at a later date. In the answer the Minister referred only to the latter inquiry and he indicated that this report was expected by the end of July. Can the Minister now provide me with further information on the former reference? When does he expect this report to be tabled? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware of the concern expressed by the fishing industry over the delay in the final implementation of Australia's 200-mile exclusive economic zone legislation? Is it a fact that Western Australian Government lawyers have discovered constitutional loopholes in the draft legislation that present difficulties in the implementation of agreements between the States and the Commonwealth? What is the current position with respect to the matter and when does the Minister anticipate that the difficulties will be overcome and the legislation enacted? 
I wish to make one or two comments on the motion before the Senate which seeks to refer this matter of oil exploration on the Great Barrier Reef to the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, of which I am  Chairman.  I commend  Senator Chipp,  who moved the motion, on his initiative in doing so. Although I do not support the motion, I certainly share his concern about a very precious national asset which we have to guard very carefully. I was interested also in his initial remarks about debating this matter in the Senate. I support what he said. I believe that the Senate debates in a constructive way matters of importance. Like  Senator Chipp,  I was a member of the other place. I too believe that the debates which take place in this chamber do far more credit to the Parliament than do some of the debates which take place in the House of Representatives. 
I acknowledge also his statement that the work of the Senate committees is most important. I take some pride in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment following its inquiry into the effect on the environment of the woodchip industry. I believe that our follow-up procedure is most important. We wrote to the various Ministers concerned with that matter three months after the report was published, asking what they were doing about the matter. We also wrote to the responsible State Ministers asking them how they reacted to certain proposals we made. 
-That is right.  Senator Mulvihill  is one of the very energetic members of the Committee. What he says is perfectly right.  Senator Melzer  and  Senator Mulvihill  were asked to look at that area. It was of great interest to  Senator Mulvihill  in particular. The Committee followed up the matter. I think it is very important to remember that Senate committee reports are valuable. They should be of great significance to any government in formulating longterm policy. We have to make sure that the government concerned takes notice of them. I believe that it was as a direct result of our follow-up process that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced that he had given his Ministers an instruction to respond within six months to recommendations contained in parliamentary committee reports. I think that six months is a little long. Ministers ought to be able to react more quickly than that. I commend the work of the committees. I suggest that more of them should follow-up their recommendations. This would be of benefit not only to the government of the day but also to the people who express views publicly on matters of great concern to the people of Australia. 
I regard the work of committees in gathering facts as important. If committees are to act, and to be seen to act, as fact finding bodies to aid decision making, their references must be such that their inquiries are able to elicit new facts. Several inquiries have related to oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef or the effect of marine oil spills. In 1971 the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources brought down its report. Chapter 13 of that report covers conservation and the marine environment. It devotes no less than 84 paragraphs to the Great Barrier Reef. The first paragraph on page 50 1 states: 
During its work the Committee was presented with submissions emphasising the dangers which could be posed to the Great Barrier Reef (hereinafter referred to as the Reef) by the threat of oil pollution from off-shore wells. A considerable amount of evidence was volunteered and gathered concerning the Reef from many witnesses, including Professor C. Burdon-Jones, Professor of Marine Biology at the University College of Townsville- now known as the James Cook University-  Dr G.  R. Orme from the Great Barrier Reef Committee . . . 
That paragraph of the report mentions several other eminent scientists and engineers interested in that area of our national heritage. It is also notable that page 503 of the report emphasises that there is a lack of knowledge of the Reef. I think that  Senator Chipp  referred to that point. I agree with him. Much more research is required to determine the exact dangers to that marine park. I think that the park ought to be declared as such. In 1975 a report was produced by the Royal Commission into Exploratory and Production Drilling for Petroleum in the Area of the Great Barrier Reef. That report consisted of 1,054 pages. Two impressive volumes were produced by that royal commission. The cost of that inquiry- this is another matter we have to look at-was $863,056. About $843,000 was provided by the Commonwealth and the rest, about $19,000, was provided by the Queensland Government. That report also referred to the need for further research. In 1978 the House of 
Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation reported on the prevention and control of oil pollution in the marine environment. 
Perhaps it is also relevant that the woodchip report to which I referred initially has a chapter devoted to national parks and reserves, their selection, preservation and management. I believe that this would include marine parks such as the Great Barrier Reef. The Parliamentary Library Research Service commented that there is no point in an inquiry to bring new scientific facts to light because no substantial new research has been done since the Royal Commission of 1975. If it is argued that more research is needed there would be little disagreement. An inquiry would not be needed to establish that point. The decision on whether to drill is a political one. It is difficult to see how another fact finding inquiry on the subject now could materially assist that decision. I understand also that there is consultation between the Commonwealth and the Queensland Government with respect to offshore activities. In the spirit of federalism, as we have come to know it, there is an attempt to define responsibilities in that area. 
I recognise the concern of  Senator Chipp  and the Australian Democrats. I recognise that there is a need for far more research work to be done in the area of marine science and oceanography. It is an area which I believe has been sadly neglected. A fragmented effort is being made at present. That is why I have tried to by sympathetic with the intent of the Australian Democrats in moving this motion. I should like to see far wider and more constructive research in the area of marine science in Australia. 
The honourable senator is very kind to pay that sort of tribute to our committee. With this in mind and in the spirit of cooperationI am a reasonable man who is fairly easy to get on with- I should like to go some way towards accommodating the concern that has been expressed by  Senator Chipp.  I propose to put a reference before my Committee for its consideration.  Senator Mason  is a member of the Committee. We will talk about the reference. If we need to refine it a little I will be flexible. I thank  Senator Chipp  for treating my information with confidence. In my view a helpful and constructive reference to the Committee of which I am proud to be  Chairman  would read as follows: 
In view of increasing development of natural resources in the marine environment of particular interest to Australia, such as proposals to explore for oil on the Great Barrier Reef, and also because of the growing risk of pollution of Australian coastal waters, the following matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment: Australian marine science, including the development of a marine science program for Australia, in the tropical, temperate and sub-Antarctica waters and the coordination of research efforts between the various agencies involved in these areas of marine science, fisheries development and oceanography'. My deputy chairman is now sitting in the chair of the Senate. I referred to him today. I think he has some sympathy towards my view. 
I am putting him in an awkward position. I suggest that my proposed reference would be a reasonable compromise for  Senator Chipp  and his colleagues to accept. I believe that this is a matter of great significance to Tasmania and places like that. 
No, I am just foreshadowing it. I have not yet discussed this matter with my Committee. I am just flagging this proposition. It may well be that the wording I have suggested will have to be altered. That is my view. I cannot support the motion as presented by  Senator Chipp.  I sympathise with the general thrust of it and I hope that what I have suggested will go a long way towards satisfying the concern expressed by the Austraiian Democrats. 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment: 
Australian Marine Science, with particular reference to (a) the development of a marine science program for Australia, including tropical, temperate and sub-Antarctic waters; and (b) the co-ordination of research efforts between the various agencies involved in the increasing development and exploitation of off-shore resources for both commercial and marine park purposes and in fisheries development. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science and the Environment. Can the Minister indicate how many scientists were able to undertake research last year in the area of the Antarctic claimed by Australia? Is it a fact that during the last 12 months ISO New Zealand scientists and 300 United States scientists were able to do valuable research work at their bases due to excellent transport facilities being available to them? In view of the vast resources that obviously are present in the Antarctic region and the fact that Australia lays claim to a very large area, has the Minister any plans to step up our research effort in this very important region which, in my view, should be given urgent priority if we are to justify our large claim? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that salaried doctors working in hospitals have a right to private practice up to 25 per cent of their salary and that any fees collected in excess of that amount are to be paid into the hospital revenue for replacement and upgrading of equipment, instruments and so on? Is the Minister aware of allegations arising from a public accounts report in South Australia that some salaried doctors are exceeding this limit and are billing their private patients direct, which prevents the hospital authorities from checking this excess? Will the Government investigate this matter with the object of requiring doctors in this category to render accounts for private patients through the hospital offices? I believe this would not only provide a very close check on this excess but also would prevent undue exploitation of taxpayers' funds. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that owing to terrorist activities in Rhodesia there has been a flood of black refugees, many of whom are children, into Bulawayo and Salisbury in search of tribal kinsmen? Is he also aware of the tremendous problems being experienced by local authorities in providing sustenance and shelter for these unfortunate victims of Marxist revolutionaries. As all the conditions for majority rule laid down by the United States of America and the United Kingdom have been met by the Smith regime, will the 
Government now remove sanctions against Rhodesia and recognise the interim government? Will the Government also cease providing aid to terrorist organisations in southern Africa and redirect such aid to responsible agencies in order that the plight of these refugees can be alleviated. 
Has the Attorney-General seen reports that the so-called 'Moonies' religious sect is recruiting youth in Australia? Is he aware of allegations by a former Adelaide gynaecologist,  Mrs Stuart-Kregor,  that her stepson has been so brainwashed by this sect that he now refuses to associate with his family because families are considered by the sect to be the work of Satan?  Mrs Stuart-Kregor  's remarks have been supported by Father John Fleming, an Adelaide columnist, who has suggested that this sect could be compared with the Jonestown suicide sect because of its requirement for slavish following and mesmerism practices. Can the Minister say whether the Government is able to take action to prohibit the activities of this sect in Australia? 
-For the information of honourable senators I present a report from the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment relating to annual reports referred to the Committee for consideration under the resolution of the Senate of 1 March 1978. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to move that the Senate take note of the report. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
Thatthe Senate take note of the report. 
My Committee has previously tabled a report on annual reports in March and June last year. In both those reports the Committee commented on the content of annual reports. Among the issues raised were: The need for annual reports to describe how they are fulfilling declared objectives and statutory obligations; the need to describe not only what has been done, but also what is planned to be done in the future; the need for a listing of major publications issued and published during the year; and the need for appendices giving information on such matters as organisational structure, staff numbers, a brief history of the organisation, and routine statistical information. 
With some exceptions, the Committee continues to find shortcomings in the annual reports reviewed. Because of differences in the quality of various annual reports, the Committee undertook a brief investigation as to what guidelines had been laid down by others to inform government departments and authorities what was expected of them. It was found that most government instructions and decisions made in the last few years deal with printing, style, layout and expense, but not with content. The only instructions relating to content are expressed in a letter of 12 July 1976 from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to all Ministers. This says that annual reports should not be promotional or publicity documents, and that if such documents are thought necessary they should be printed separately. The Committee believes that all organisations should outline in their annual reports the powers, functions and objectives of their charter, whether statutory or otherwise, indicating how each is being exercised and fulfilled. Although this may seem obvious, it is rarely done. I note that the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations under the chairmanship of  Senator Rae  presented a report in December and made reference to the need to examine the whole question of how annual reports should be presented. I quote from page 93 of the report entitled 'Statutory Authorities of the Commonwealth- First Report'. Paragraph 8.1 reads: 
Statutory authorities have proliferated in the Commonwealth since Federation. These authorities are often outside the standard departmental structure with its safeguards of ministerial responsibility and accountability. The reasons for the creation of these authorities have varied considerably over the years. There has not been a systematic approach to their establishment. 
The Committee also states in paragraph 8.10 on page 97 of the report: 
The Committee envisages the following changes as a result of our inquiry so far 
An annual comprehensive list of statutory authorities to be published by the Committee . . . 
The creation of authorities by separate statute when they significantly vary from the departmental structure . . . 
An analysis of the results of the Committee's survey on the economic impact of authorities, to be published in 1979 . . . 
The introduction of an Annual Reports Act, establishing the standard whereby authorities report annually to the Parliament with specified information . . . 
That is a very important suggestion and it ought to be examined by the Government. 
It is of interest that an interdepartmental working committee has been set up arising out of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. My Committee believes that the interdepartmental committee should report as soon as possible to facilitate preparation of annual reports for the 1978-79 financial year. The findings of the interdepartmental committee should help to produce annual reports which have maximum value for the public and Parliament. It would be unfortunate if further unsatisfactory annual reports were to be produced because of lack of overall guidance. The Committee accordingly looks forward with keen interest to the report of the interdepartmental inquiry. 
In the longer term, the Committee would be interested in the findings of the current comprehensive inquiry of the Joint Committee on Publications into annual reports of Commonwealth departments and statutory authorities. The terms of reference under which annual reports are referred to standing committees say that committees may at their discretion, pursue or not pursue inquiries into reports so received. The discretion given to committees under the terms of reference is noted; nevertheless, most of the annual reports referred to committees fall squarely within their respective areas of interest, and some of them cover the activities of very large and/or influential organisations. 
My Committee, for example, has had referred to it 19 annual reports. Among them are the reports of the Department of Science, the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, as well as other instrumentalities of importance in the fields of science and the environment. It is, therefore, hardly conceivable that the Committee could responsibly exercise a discretion not to examine these reports. Indeed the Committee would like to go very much further than it already has in pursuing inquiries into annual reports of Government departments and authorities. It sees in this activity a responsibility of the upper House of Parliament that has hitherto been very much neglected. But the staff resources- this is a point that ought to be notedavailable to Senate committees are meagre in the extreme when matched against what is expected of them. By comparison, public inquiries launched by the Executive are given considerable resources. Many of them have staffs of 20 or more persons. By way of example, let us look at the report of the Study Group on Structural Adjustment which was tabled this month in Parliament. The Study Group was provided with a secretariat comprising: Two joint secretaries; 8 professional staff, 4 experts, 9 support staff and 5 typists- a total of 28. In addition there were 7 working groups with a total membership of 55. 
Senate committees are required to carry out somewhat similar public inquiries with a total staff of four and sometimes only 3 persons, including the typist. At the same time the same staff must attempt to survey the total fields of interest of the committee, keep abreast of relevant legislation, arrange field visits, deal with a continuous flow of correspondence and telephone calls on committee matters, and assist in the examination of annual reports. My committee at the moment is engaged in the organisation of a trip to examine the River Murray system. We are also engaged in preparing a program for the commencement of a substantial inquiry into Australian marine science. Also, in the next week or two hearings of the Senates Estimates committees will commence and a member of the staff of my Committee will be seconded in order to service an Estimates committee. This situation applies not only to the Committee secretariat but also to other important Senate staff members here. Those officers are already overloaded with work. This creates problems. This is a significant point raised by the Committee in this statement. 
I believe the time has come when serious consideration must be given to Senate committee operations and their staffing needs. The committees are now well established. Their influence and their workloads are growing as they should. A measure of this is given by the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 25 May last year that committee reports were to be examined on a methodical basis by the Executive with a statement in Parliament by Ministers responsible, outlining action the Government proposes to take in relation to those reports. The scrutiny of committee reports by the public, by Parliament and by the Government gives Parliamentary inquiries a special significance which does not always attach to inquiries commissioned by the Executive. This of course places an additional responsibility on the committee staff. Yet we seem to expect the members of the committee secretariat to carry this  increasing  responsibility and workload without considering whether their numbers, their calibre, and the facilities provided for their use are adequate for the demands that we make of them. I believe the time is right for a review of Senate committees, looking in particular at the need for staff essential to help us make committee operations really effective. I commend the report to the Senate. 
-Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of the plans of the South Australian Government to introduce a land rights Bill that will involve the giving of about 32 per cent of the northern part of South Australia to the Pitjantjatjara Aboriginal people as phase one of a program to extend land rights ultimately over about 50 per cent of the State? Can the Minister say what consultations have been carried out with the Commonwealth on this subject? In view of the constitutional responsibility of the Commonwealth in these matters, can he provide any details of the proposal? 
-Has the Minister for Science and the Environment seen a report attributed to Professor Noel Hynes, who is Professor of Biology at Waterloo University, Ontario, in which he suggests that the River Murray could become a muddy canal with carp and little else and is in danger of losing traditional fish species? Has the Minister also noted that Professor Hynes, who is a world authority on fresh water biology, has also suggested that the River Murray, once a rich and major fishery, has declined and that we do not really know why? Is the Minister aware of the Professor's allegation that nothing is being done about researching the river system's present state and what will happen to it in the future and that he expressed astonishment that little or no money is being spent on fresh water research in Australia? What current studies, if any, are being carried out into the effects that European carp, willows and water hyacinth are having on the River Murray system? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services aware that policemen in New York are now using bicycles rather than motor vehicles as part of an oil conservation program in that state? Has the Government given consideration to extending the 'Life. Be in It.' theme to include the use of bicycles by police in the Australian Capital Territory? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether the capital costs associated with buildings constructed for the aged under the Aged Persons Hostels Act have not been adjusted since about March 1977, and that until then the matter was subject to quarterly review. As there is an apparent build-up in demand for this type of accommodation, can the Minister say whether she will be able to give favourable consideration to restoring these adjustments in the next Budget? Also, can the Minister indicate when funding will be provided for outstanding commitments for hostel units preserved under the Act? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health what action the Government has taken to ensure that accurate records of birth deformities are kept throughout Australia with the object of establishing possible causes for such deformities? Has the Government responded to recommendations made in a report of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment following an investigation into the herbicides 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D? 
-The Attorney-General will recall that previously I mentioned my concern about the spread of activities in Australia of the Unification Church otherwise known as the Moonies' and that my question arose from allegations made recently in an Adelaide newspaper concerning practices pursued by the 'Moonies'. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a speech by  Mr Paul  Rose, M.P., in a debate in the House of Commons on the activities of this socalled church in the United Kingdom? Is the Minister aware that  Mr Rose  drew attention to the sworn testimony of ex-members of this cult and cited the case of a girl whose father was conned into giving away to the organisation an £800,000 estate in Stanton Fitzwarren? In view of this and other evidence of extortion in the United Kingdom, will the Minister initiate an investigation of the activities of this sect in Australia? 
-I refer the AttorneyGeneral to the progressive policy initiative which was foreshadowed recently by the Premier of Victoria in the field of industrial relations whereby he proposes introducing secret ballots under certain circumstances before strikes can be authorised in that State. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Government has also recognised public concern in this vital area, as indicated in a speech by the Minister for Finance in Perth on 23 April? Has the Attorney-General noted that  Mr Robinson  said, among other things, that the Government will ask the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission not to hear cases in which any type of industrial action is continuing and to recommend a return to work in those circumstances?  Mr Robinson  also said that alternatively the Commission could order a secret ballot to determine - 
My question also is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the amounts of money that pensioners are able to earn while still retaining full eligibility for pension entitlements. I understand that at present the sums are $34.50 for a married couple and $20 for a single person and that these sums have not been altered since 1972. In view of the fact that wages have increased considerably during that period and that the value of the dollar has been eroded, will the Minister give favourable consideration to increasing these sums when she is giving consideration to submissions from her Department for the forthcoming Budget? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National 
Development. I refer to the inquiry into matters related to pollution in the River Murray. Can the Minister say whether a report has been presented to the River Murray Commission steering committee? If so, will details of this report be made available to the Senate? 
-by leave- I was quite surprised at the remarks made by  Senator Button.  It seemed to me that the remarks reflected an anti-Australasian attitude. I compliment the Government on the action that has been taken in respect of the free issue of the national flag. I think it is about time that we took more interest in establishing some national spirit in Australia. That is something that I have been concerned about for a number of years now. This was brought forcibly to my attention last year when I went overseas to Japan. Throughout that country I saw a demonstration of tremendous nationalism, national spirit and enthusiasm amongst the people to work hard in the interests of their nation. 1 believe this action is a step towards encouraging people in Australia to take a pride in our nation. If we introduce this sort of program in other areas, it will contribute very largely to inspiring people to become prouder of our nation. That is the way I see it. I support the 
Government in what it has done because I believe it will encourage pride in our nation. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the recent draft proposals by the Industries Assistance Commission relating to the Australian wine and grape growing industry. Has consideration been given to the severe consequences resulting from an inevitable downturn in wine sales if these proposals are proceeded with, and the effect of such measures on an industry which already is suffering as a result of the increase in brandy excise? Will the Government carefully consider the following matters before making any decision on the proposals: firstly, the loss of income tax revenue because of anticipated lower sales; secondly, the cost of carry-on finance which will be required by many small producers, particularly in the Riverland district of South Australia; thirdly, the loss of revenue from small service industries and small supporting businesses; and, fourthly, the increased unemployment benefits that would be required to support those who were placed out of work as a result of such measures? Will the Government consider the major effect that this would have in South Australia, which produces about 70 per cent of Australian wine and 90 per cent of Australian brandy, and bear in mind the importance of retaining a viable industry in view  of the grape surplus? 
I present the following petition from 5,929 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President,  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, the humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia, respectfully showeth that those who have retired and those who are about to retire, are being severely and adversely affected by inflation and Australian economic circumstances. 
The decision not to restore six monthly indexation of pensions, particularly those entitled to age pensions, creates a further undue hardship. 
A pension for all on retirement, and a guarantee that all Australian citizens will retire with dignity is considered a right, and not a charity. The now restoration of the six monthly indexation for persons entitled to age pension benefits, discriminates against the aged citizens of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport about the disgraceful state of the Stuart Highway. Is the Minister aware that his colleague,  Mr Nixon,  was forced to postpone his visit to Coober Pedy last week due to the closure of the Coober Pedy airport owing to bad weather? Is he also aware that the Minister travelled by car from Pimba to Lake Hart to inspect the condition of the road, acting on the suggestion from  Mr Ken  Harrison, the public relations officer of the Australian Roads Federation who claimed that this section of road was among the worst along the Highway? Is it also a fact that the Federal Minister has restated his interest in an increased allocation by the State Government out of national highway funds for the purpose of constructing this road and that the State Government should give this highway a greater priority? Is it a fact that  Mr Nixon  proposes to visit Coober Pedy later this year to discuss transport matters in general with local residents? 
Before I refer to Document A, division 543, I would like to endorse what  Senator Chipp  said about the inadequacy of some of the reports we receive. It seems to. me that a lot is left to be desired in that area. We must remember that information to the public and to members of parliament quite often is gleaned from the annual reports which are presented. I suggest that this Committee should emphasise the importance of early presentation of a report from an interdepartmental committee which has been established by the Government. It should report as soon as possible to facilitate the preparation of annual reports for the 1978-79 financial year and to be of maximum value to parliamentarians and the public. That was an observation made in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment which was presented here in March this year. I believe that that is important in view of what  Senator Chipp  has said. It would be unfortunate if further unsatisfactory annual reports were produced because of lack of guidance from the Executive Government. I made that critical comment earlier in the year. What  Senator Chipp  has said emphasises the need for departments, statutory authorities and so on to have regard to the importance of those various reports. 
When I commenced I stated that I wanted to talk about division 543, which relates to the Antarctic Division of the Department of Science and the Environment. My remarks follow a question asked by  Senator Robertson  at the hearing of Estimates Committee D concerning an amount of $100,000 which was allocated for design work on an Antarctic purpose ship. I think that is a very important question because at the present time the Government is chartering two vessels from Norway, the  Nella Dan  and the  Thalia Dan,  at a cost of something like $1.5m a year. The question was answered by  Mr Webster  of the Department, who said: 
That work Icd to a design brief and, flowing from that, an invitation was advertised throughout the world for proposals for design and construction of vessels. I understand some 40 to SO proposals were received about last November. This was a large number of proposals. A number of firms gave a great deal of elaboration in their proposals. The examination of these proposals is currently being carried out by the Department with the assistance of the Department of Defence and the Shipbuilding Division of the Department of Industry and Commerce. We received so much information in response to that first invitation-  (Quorum formed).  1 am surprised that the Opposition should have chosen to waste the time of the Committee, considering its disgraceful performance last night when it wasted no less than one and three-quarter hours of this chamber's time on frivolous and unnecessary debate. I regard that as quite incredible. If honourable senators opposite are kept here until 2 or 3 o 'clock tomorrow morning it will be their fault. That is the way in which the Government should respond to irresponsibility on the part of the Opposition. Before the quorum formed, I was supporting the concern expressed by  Senator Robertson  concerning the allocation of funds for design work for an Antarctic purpose ship. I mentioned that $ 1.5 m currently is being spent on chartering vessels from Norway for that purpose. I was saying that  Mr Webster  from the Department of Science and the Environment said at the Estimates Committee hearing that a great number of firms gave a great deal of elaboration in their proposals and that the Department had received 40 or 50 such proposals to the design request.  Mr Webster  went on to state: 
The examination of these proposals is currently being carried out by the Department with the assistance of the Department of Defence and the Shipbuilding Division of the Department of Industry and Commerce. We received so much information in response to that first invitation that it will take us more than six months to digest it all. As a result, we will not require that $ 100,000 this year . . . 
I find that an incredible statement. We have known for a long time that the transport facilities from Australia to the Antarctic have been not as adequate as some of us would like. The research work being carried out ax the Antarctic is important to Australia. We claim 42 per cent of that area. I do not think that at the present time we are carrying out sufficient research work there. So in my view- I gather from  Senator Robertson's  question that he would agree- it is important that the work should be carried out as a matter of expediency and urgency. I understand that the ship which is envisaged would be able to transport far more personnel to the Antarctic than can now be transported. It is very important that we maximise our research effort in that area. I would like the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to suggest to her colleague that this matter should be re-examined and that, if we are to justify our claim to 42 per cent of the Antarctic, we should give priority to increasing our research effort there. 

 - Mr Chairman, I also speak about transport. I wish to make a few comments about the Stuart Highway. I believe that most members of this Senate will appreciate that I have an interest in the construction of that highway. It is of great importance to South Australia. I also recall on many previous occasions attending deputations.  Senator Bishop  in his speech referred to one deputation which involved the South Australian Minister for Transport,  Mr Virgo, Senator Bishop,  members from the Northern Territory, myself and  Senator Young.  1 think members of the Australian Roads Federation and the Mayor of Alice Springs attended also. Collectively, we supported the concept of providing special funding for the Stuart Highway. As a result of that conference, which was of unanimous feeling, 1 drafted a letter which was ultimately sent to the Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon). 
That is right. Let me give the honourable senator due credit. I will come to a matter later that he might not like. I give due credit to  Senator Bishop  that he approved the letter that I drafted, and signed it. It is also true that at the time the Minister agreed to present to Cabinet a special request for extra funds for that highway. I think  Senator Bishop  mentioned a figure of $2m. Subsequent to that occasion, I recall mentioning publicly that a letter had been sent to the Minister requesting that the Federal Government reimburse the South Australian Government to a degree with respect to this type of funding. 

 - Senator Young reminds me that we discussed the matter with the Minister at the time. That is perfectly true. But  Senator Bishop  will recall that after that event the Cabinet refused to accede to the Minister's request for additional funds because it happened to be against policy with respect to national highways funding.  Senator Bishop  then devised a mischievious motion- an urgency motionwhich he introduced into this place and to which he has referred. It was mischievous because he knew that honourable senators on this side of the House had supported the proposition of additional funds for the highway but that the Government had refused the funds previously on the grounds that it was against current policy. I suggested at the time that the honourable senator might regard the motion as one of national urgency because other national highways came within a similar category. I suggested that he widen his motion to include a proposition to the Government which I believe was valid. I believe that if he had done so he would have attracted total support from this side of the House and would have motivated the Government to a change of policy. 
But no,  Senator Bishop  would not have that. He wanted to get the Government senators from South Australia on the hook. He knows that he was playing politics and now he is attempting to capitalise on it. My proposition- I put it again to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  who is in the chamber- was that the 
Government should leave the national highway funding as it was. In other words, the Government should give money to the States to allocate according to their own priorities, but provide an additional fund to the Federal Minister so that he is able to provide special funding to a proposal of his own priority. I regard the Stuart Highway as being of top priority and I would support such a proposition, as I know  Senator Bishop  would. I am being generous in saying that, but I know that he would. I believe that such action would have been constructive. But, no,  Senator Bishop  would not have that. Then, having refused my constructive suggestion, he accused  Senator Kilgariff  and I of walking out and not voting on the motion. 
-I walked out on the motion, but the honourable senator is trying to disillusion people. In doing that we weakened the Government's opposition to  Senator Bishop's  motion. In effect, we supported the motion in principle. I believe that is true. Honourable senators opposite should think about that and if anyone from Coober Pedy is listening he or she ought to think about it too. In effect,  Senator Kilgariff  and I supported  Senator Bishop  in that particular proposal.  Senator Bishop  stood up here and talked of our disinterest in that particular highway. He mentioned last week that the Minister travelled to Woomera because he was invited there by  Mr Calder, Senator Young, Senator Kilgariff  and 1 to look at Coober Pedy en route to the Northern Territory. He did that in good faith. When he landed at Woomera the weather was bad. He acted on the advice of the Australian Road Federation, whose public relations officer had said: 'Well, the Minister is going to travel over the road near Coober Pedy, which is a good section of the road. He should travel over the road down in the south, which is the worst section'. 
So the Minister changed his mind and decided to travel by car over the road from Pimba to Lake Hart to look at what apparently is regarded by the Australian Roads Federation as a bad stretch of road. When he arrived back at Woomera he received a radio message from an aircraft that had tried to land at Coober Pedy saying that the weather was such that the airport was closed. So, regrettably, the Minister had to postpone his visit to Coober Pedy. In retrospect, that might have been a good thing. I am glad to say that he has agreed- to return, perhaps for a longer period. He will go back in October or November this year and spend more time discussing transport matters in general with the 
Coober Pedy representatives. Members of the Labor Party stand up in this chamber and make references to Governmenr senators and Ministers, yet I cannot recall a Minister for Transport in the Labor Party Government going to Coober Pedy. I cannot recall the Labor Party when in Government taking any more interest in the Stuart Highway than the Labor Party in South Australia does at the present time. 

 - Senator Young is quite right.  Mr Whitlam,  when he was Prime Minister, said: 'Yes, the Labor Party will provide a dual sealed highway to the Northern Territory'. He also said something about providing an international airport for Townsville and Brisbane. But none of those things ever eventuated.  Senator Bishop  has the confounded impertinence, gall and hide to denigrate members of this House in a mischievous way although the Labor Party did nothing when it was in Government and the State Government of South Australia regards the Stuart Highway as having a low priority. I am proud to say that our Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  has restated his affirmation that that road is important. He has also restated his determination to persuade the State Government to allocate a high priority to that road. As long as I am a member of this Senate I will support that contention. I suggest to  Senator Bishop  that, rather than try michieviously to denigrate me and my colleagues on this side of the chamber, he ought to be more constructive. If he is interested in South Australia and the development of the Northern Territory and South Australia together which is very important, he ought to get behind the proposition that I have restated. I believe that if he had done so at the time he would have gained more creditibility because he would have had the total support of the Senate. 1 ask him to reflect on that in the future whenever he mentions my name in the context of the Stuart Highway. I ask him to reflect also on the fact which he knows very well, that what  Senator Kilgariff  and I did was very much in support of his proposition. 
-by leave -I move: 
That the Senate take note ofthe paper. 
It is gratifying to the Senate to receive from the Government a comment in response to the request some time ago from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that Ministers make known their views on recommendations made by Senate standing committee reports. I am grateful for that. 1 believe that the statement can be criticised because it ignores some of the more important aspects of the recommendations that were gathered as a result of intensive inquiry by the committee of which I am the  chairman  and by its predecessor which was chaired by  Senator Keeffe.  It seems to me that the Government has ignored some important aspects of this matter. I will refer to one or two of them during these remarks. The statement which has just been incorporated by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  states, in part: 
The Government, however, believes that there could be a case for the development of new projects, with safeguards which take account of current research and which are accompanied by monitoring of environmental quality. 
I am not quite sure on what basis that statement was made, because the Committee, after extensive inquiry, went to great pains to set out recommendations in this area which were based on informed comment and which should be adopted. 
I draw attention to one or two matters in the report itself. We are dealing with two reports, the major one and a supplementary one which was presented in November 1978. On page 12 of the main report under the heading 'Research' clause 69 states: 
The extreme lack of knowledge in the biological sphere in Australia is cause for serious national concern. It is hampering responsible decision making in areas of considerable social importance. The Committee believes this provides overwhelming grounds for urgent Government action. 
Clause 75 states: 
Taxonomic studies on Australian fauna and flora, the invertebrates in particular, appear to be absolutely basic to research progress in many biological fields of importance to forestry. 
Clause 76 states: 
The CSIRO has pointed out that industry often displays a reluctance to accept new ideas and that it is necessary to press hard for their adoption. Forestry Authorities also have a responsibility in this matter, particularly where innovations demand revision of environmental protection prescriptions. 
Those points draw attention to some of the concern that has been expressed by the Committee. We go on to say, at page 245. 
In the invertebrates the situation is chaotic, with probably at least half the species unidentified. Among the insects alone it is said that something like SO 000 species just cannot be mentioned in any account of the environmental ecosystem because they have no accepted names. Yet, insects, just because of the large number of species and the ease with which they can be sampled are particularly sensitive indicators of environmental differences. Collecting on a massive scale is part of the answer but the main requirement is a major taxonomic effort, using both existing collections which are still largely unstudied and the new material to be brought in. 
That is an area in which I believe more work ought to be done. How can safeguards be applied in this area when there is no base line against which to carry out proper, environmental-quality monitoring 
I am glad that the Minister has made that comment. Nevertheless, more work in this direction is required. 
The Minister's statement evades the issue so far as other aspects are concerned. In response to the Committee 's recommendation that export licences be renewed only when regeneration, on private land especially, was assured, he said: 
In this case, the Commonwealth considers that regeneration of native forests is a State matter, and that the Government has little control on the future use of private land. The Government might well re-examine that statement. 
It is clear to the Committee that the Department of Primary Industry has a responsibility to specify conditions under which export licences can be issued. Therefore, the comment is not valid and ought to be reconsidered. 
The third point to which I draw attention concerns research into the depletion of soil nutrients. I find it difficult to agree with the statements of the Minister: 
While the Government shares the Committee's concern in this respect, it considers that the depletion of soil nutrients can bc prevented by the use of artificial fertilisers. 
I find that difficult to reconcile in terms of forestry economics. 
-I believe so. The application of artificial fertilisers is one of considerable economic concern to people managing forestry areas. I would like to read from the report concerning it. The Minister may not have studied that particular aspect of it. 
-The Minister will recall that at page 63 the report reads: 
Deficiencies in soil nutrients could bc made good by the application of fertiliser. Phosphorus in particular could be supplied by superphosphate. However, forestry economics usually prohibit the general use of fertilisers. World supplies of superphosphate are also declining. Its use in agriculture would normally be expected to take priority. 
That draws attention to the economic aspect. I suggest that more work ought to be done to examine perhaps the effects of certain invertebrates upon the replacement of soil nutrient. It is important to recognise that we do not really know enough about this subject and I suggest that we ought to be doing much more in regard to it. 
I shall not occupy the time of the Senate for very much longer but I believe it important also to emphasise what the Government has said with respect to land use planning. At page 3 of his statement, the Minister said: 
While the Government shares the Committee's concern . . . 
With respect to nutrient losses: 
. it considers that the depletion of soil nutrients can be prevented by the use of artificial fertilisers. Research into this issue has been increased, but it is unlikely that there will be any significant export of second rotation woodchips from native forests during this century. 
This again highlights our concern because from the evidence before the Committee it is clear that it takes at least 100 years to replenish soil nutrients that have been removed by clear-felling. That is another matter that warrants further examination. Until we can be confident that crop rotation for less than that period will not cause permanent damage, it would be advisable to note the Committee's suggestion that the industry should be expanded only with respect to the use of offcuts and the thinning of forests in the woodchip areas. 
Finally, I refer to the question of a national land use policy, to which reference is made on page 4 of the Minister's statement, as follows: 
With regard to a national land use policy, there is a diversity of views at the State level on the desirability of a greater Commonwealth involvement in land use matters. While it would be prepared to consider new initiatives, the Government feels that the first approach must come from the States. 
I am afraid that I must disagree, because I believe that this is an area of great national concern, in which clearly the initiative could come from the Federal Government for discussion upon it at the appropriate Commonwealth/State forum. I believe that what the Committee says at page 376 of the report is in the true spirit of Federalism. It states: 
Whilst the Federal Government has no direct responsibility in State land use matters, the evidence leaves the Committee in little doubt that Federal involvement is not only necessary to provide a national perspective to land use planning, but would be beneficial in assisting State Governments to establish a suitable standard of land use planning within designated regions. The Committee accepts that the regional level is the appropriate level for detailed planning and that broad policy matters only should be considered at Federal and State levels. The Committee advocates agreement being sought by Federal and State Governments on a national land use policy. At the same time the Committee wishes to emphasise the folly of confusing national policies with uniform controls and regulations which by their nature are unable to take into account the great variety of physical properties and social needs existing between and within States. State governments must remain free to formulate their own policies and priorities within the general framework of an agreed national policy. 
That presents a challenge to the Federal Government. If it has a regard for the importance of that suggestion the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  might also consider issuing a clearlydefined land use policy on Australia. There are other matters to which I would like to refer but I will seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. I refer to the large number of one person private motor vehicles which congest Canberra roads, particularly at peak periods. As the Government is concerned at the depleting oil reserves and the need for a strenuous national conservation program, will the Government consider encouraging motorists to use public transport by either providing free bus transport in the Australian Capital Territory or considerably reducing fares? Such a scheme ought to be contemplated for six months in order to make an assessment of this proposal as a useful conservation measure. Does the Minister agree that this would be a useful pilot scheme which could be emulated by the State governments should it demonstrate a significant saving of fuel? 
I present the following petition from 13 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the report and transcript of evidence from the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment on its inquiry into industrial research and development in Australia. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
The Senate, on 7 April 1 976, referred the following matter to the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment: 
The continuing scrutiny of Australian science policy in the physical, social and life sciences. The direction, priorities, efficacy and ultimate application of Australian research and development efforts. 
These terms of reference are very broad, covering the whole of Australian scientific and technological endeavour, together with its direction, and the influence it has on the community. My Committee therefore interpreted these terms of reference as giving discretion to establish priorities and determine which aspects of the matter should be investigated from time to time. A progress report relating to 'Policy Matters for Science and Technology- An Outline' was tabled by the Committee under this reference in November 1977. 
On 27 May 1977 I advised the Senate that the Committee intended to carry out an inquiry into industrial research and development within the framework of the given terms of reference. The Committee appreciated from the outset that the scope of an inquiry into industrial research and development would be extremely wide. Even so, the importance and urgency of the main theme provided compelling reasons for a broad examination of industrial research and development in Australia. To the best of the Committee's belief no such wide-ranging public inquiry into the subject has previously been attempted in this country. 
As a result of the inquiry, the Committee has made some findings, the implications of which are extremely disturbing. The Committee's recommendations to deal appropriately with them in the long term call for nothing less than a complete change of direction in the national approach to industrial research and development, particularly as this applies to manufacturing industry. The measure of this redirection is perhaps given by the 61 recommendations of the report covering a wide range of matters. I do not want to take up the time of the Senate at this point with a detailed description of all the recommendations. I would, however, like to pick out a few of the more significant points to give some idea of the main thrust of the report. 
Industrial research and development is vital to the health of industry and consequent national development. But sometime during the last 10 years Australian industry lost its entrepreneurial drive. Not only this, but the Federal Acts intended to stimulate industrial research and development in Australia have failed in their purpose. Government incentives for industrial research and development are nowhere near commensurate with the need, nor do they bear any other than incidental relation to national objectives. Low levels of incentive grant lead to a frittering away of public money without any appreciable effect on the quality of the nation's technology. Little fragments of information and expertise are not enough to start a development, build an export program or calculate multimillion dollar risks. 
But at present no clear national policy for science and technology exists in this country. In consequence there can be little coherence, sense of purpose or direction in government support for industrial research and development. Yet a sense of direction and national purpose is desperately needed. Market, taxation and protection considerations conspire to produce a climate which is not conducive to industry's taking a bold approach to innovation. Perhaps the most striking example of the unintended effect of government policy on innovation is the adverse influence which high levels of protection have on industrial creativity. The Government must also show, through its own purchasing and contracting policies, more confidence in the abilities of Australian industry. Those policies appear, often unjustifiably, to regard foreign firms as more capable than our own. If Australian industry, and not least manufacturing industry, is to move successfully into the coming decade, or even survive it, the barriers preventing it from engaging in research and development must be identified and removed. 
If the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act is to be a really effective instrument of government policy, it must be related to national aims for industry and directed towards relevant priorities. Research and development projects must be selected for support with a clear idea of their relation to national policies and their likely effect on industrial progress and economic growth. If Australia is to retain industries capable of contributing significantly to employment and the economy, full advantage must be taken of the latest technology. Urgent action is needed to understand technological developments and give them recognition in national policies and plans. 
This does not imply a neglect of the social consequences of technology. The economic and social consequences of present developments will be enormous and are even now being experienced. Yet the rapid changes occurring in technology and society are neither well nor widely appreciated. Means to release workers from long periods of toil in uncomfortable, noisy, even hazardous surroundings has long been an aim of society. Our technical ability to do this is rapidly increasing, and with it the potential for individuals to make more satisfying contributions to the communal well-being. But this demands new attitudes to the definition and meaning of work, and these are slow in developing. The potential to improve and develop our society and its culture is vast, yet we appear blind to this because of our traditional short term modes of thinking. There is, accordingly, a great need to monitor technological development and prepare for its effects on the community. 
That sounds optimistic. What is the reality? Let us look at a few figures. A gloomy picture emerges. Between 1973-74 and 1976-77 Australian effort in terms of manpower engaged in research and development, declined by 40 per cent, which is a large decline. Indications are that the decline has continued since 1976-77. Between the same years, gross expenditure on research and development in Australia, as a percentage of the gross domestic product fell from 1.29 per cent to 0.97 per cent, a reduction of 25 per cent. No other member of the Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development has shown so great a decline. Indeed, most of those countries have shown an increase, or a stable condition. In 1975, of the 17 OECD countries for which figures are available, the only countries which spent less than Australia per capita on research and development were Finland, Ireland, Spain and Portugal. The OECD examiners, in their report of 1 974 on science and technology in Australia, commented unfavourably on the predominance of the government sector both as a source of funds and as a performer of research. At that time the government sector provided 63 per cent of funds. Since then the situation has deteriorated, with the government sector providing 77 per cent of the total in 1976-77. The business enterprise sector's contribution has dropped dramatically and disturbingly from 35 per cent of total expenditure in 1973-74 to only 19 per cent in 1976-77/ One would like to have more up-to-date figures but, regrettably, these are not available and even the 1976-77 figures are not yet officially published. This is further cause for concern. If we do not know where we are or where we have been, how can we make timely and meaningful plans for future direction? 
It is vital that national policies for science and technology be developed as a matter of urgency to help to reverse this decline in research and development. There is currently in Australia a serious disproportion between effort and expenditure devoted to 'applied research', compared with 'experimental development'. This is not to imply that expenditure on applied research should be reduced- quite the contrary- but rather that encouragement is needed in the area of experimental development to take full advantage of Australian research. It is generally accepted that development requires 5 to 10 times the cost of initial research. There is thus little economic sense in spending $ 1 m on research unless you have reasonable hope of obtaining a further $ 10m to carry a project through development to commercial fruition. It is at this point that out native Australian inventive genius fails. 
In 1 976-77 we applied 44 per cent of our gross expenditure on research and development to applied research, compared with only 25 per cent for experimental development; that is, nearly 2:1. The balance, 31 per cent was for basic research. Most industrialised countries have a ratio of about 20 per cent to 60 per cent or 1:3. It is small wonder, then, that the Committee kept hearing of promising new ideas which had been shelved, or lost overseas, because resources to develop them commercially here were not available. Some examples of this are provided by the xerography process, the flame ionization detection unit, and the atomic absorption spectrometer of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The lack of suitable measures to implement past scientific and technological advances contributes to the current difficult situation of manufacturing industry. If Australia is to develop as an industrial nation, a change is needed to place greater emphasis on supporting industrial research and development in its own right- not in subservience to, or consequent upon, other kinds of research, but in parallel with it. At the same time deliberate policies are required which will encourage and foster the flow of knowledge between science and technology. 
The application of new developments in science and technology is almost certainly the most important single means we have of increasing the productivity and competitiveness of Australian industry. It has the potential at the same time to increase employment opportunities. This most promising avenue to the future appears largely unexplored, yet travel it we must if we are to remain among the creators and leaders of modern civilisation. But we have far to go. Australia is not so well endowed with knowledge and expertise that we can afford to underemploy these national assets. We must make concerted efforts to apply intellectual and material resources to better advantage in developing a competitive edge to primary and manufacturing industries. The expensive, often unique, facilities and knowledge to be found in government research establishments should make their full contribution to national development. This is not happening. Government research establishments, including those of the CSIRO, need to adopt a much more aggressive entrepreneurial attitude towards the eventual commercial contribution that their work can make to national economic well-being. The CSIRO, as well as other government research organisations could be more active in ensuring that its work is brought to a practical economic end through increased and closer participation with industry. Furthermore, the machinery whereby these organisations gauge and react to national needs and priorities, particularly in the manufacturing sector, requires strengthening. 
The defence organisation also needs to take a fresh, hard look at its relationship with industry. Effective defence is as much a matter of industrial and economic strength as it is of military hardware and men under arms. But interaction of defence research and development with industry has been and is, with a few exceptions, poor. Similarly, tertiary education institutions with their research facilities and intellectual forces, represent a resource for innovation which few industries can match. Yet, although some examples exist of useful co-operation between tertiary education and industry, understanding of each other's needs, capabilities and points of mutual interest is also poor. The whole area of collaboration between industry and tertiary education is a fertile field awaiting cultivation. The needs and aims of society, including industry, require ternary education institutions to become more involved in interdisciplinary problemoriented research, with university courses related to real as well as abstract problems. 
Many other problems relating to industrial research and development are discussed in the report. For example, although shortage of professional manpower is not seen as a check on innovation, poor management attitudes may be. One most important area where management attitudes stifle creativity and hamper the exchange of information essential to innovation, is that relating to interchange of staff. An improvement in mobility and interchange of staff would go far towards meeting many of our needs and problems in industrial research and development. There are further problems relating to the availability and flow of technical information. It is important that Australian libraries develop strategies for acquiring and making readily available the kind of information needed by workers in industrial research and development. 
Shortcomings also exist in the Australian patent system. It is commonly assumed that present patent legislation operates in the national interest. This assumption is open to serious question. Finally, industry could do much to help itself through the establishment of joint facilities for commercially oriented research and services for information and advice. The leaders of Australia's industry could with advantage consider the merits of improving their research and development capability by consolidating and strengthening existing industrial research associations and perhaps creating some new ones. 
In summary, our problems lie not so much in existing facilities, or in the number and quality of personnel involved, but rather in the relationships established between the various elements involved in research and development, together with policies aimed at achieving optimum balance between research, development, management, and the market place. Given this situation, it is of first importance that a sense of direction be given to our industrial, research, and teaching organisations. This is why the Committee's first recommendation is addressed to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  desiring him to give urgent attention to the expression of a clear national policy for science and technology, against which planning decisions in support of industrial research and development can be made. This policy should attempt to identify and support those scientific endeavours in which Australia could best pursue and achieve excellence, and which at the same time are likely to make significant contributions to national advancement. 
The Committee's second recommendation follows directly from the first. It desires the Prime Minister to direct the Australian Science and Technology Council to consider the feasibility of establishing a long term national plan for the development and application of science and technology to the furtherance of national well-being. Plans of this kind, which include mechanisms for involving the community in the planning process, have been developed successfully overseas. 
Notable among them is that of the Royal Norwegian Council for Scientific Research. The Committee suggests that the Norwegian example may serve as a point of departure for ASTEC. 
A further recommendation is that the Government considerably increase the level of funding for the Australian industrial research and development scheme. In all, the Committee makes 6 1 recommendations intended to meet in a practical way some of the problems and shortcomings I have just outlined. Among these recommendations are proposals: That incentive grants be free of tax; that Government departments maximise the contracting of research and procurement to Australian industry; that the influence of science and technology on social development be studied systematically; that staff mobility be encouraged; that relationships between government instrumentalities- particularly CSIRO and Defence- tertiary education institutions and industry be revised; and that patent laws and agreements be reviewed in depth. 
I commend the report to the Senate. I pay a sincere tribute to members of the Committee's staff who have been able to produce no less than three reports in the last month. This report is a major one. I think that  Mr Dawe, Ms Luker, Mr Wiber  and, I am told, the tireless person who works on the typewriter,  Mrs Hansen,  ought to be congratulated and commended on their devotion to the Committee. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Mulvihill)  adjourned. 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
1 ) That, if the Senate be not sitting when the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment has completed its Progress Report on Pollution of the River Murray, the Committee may sent its Progress Report to the  President  of the Senate or, if the  President  is unavailable, to the  Deputy President  who is authorised to give directions for its printing and circulation, and in such event the  President  or  Deputy President  shall lay the Progress Report upon the Table at the next sitting of the Senate. 
2) That the foregoing provision of this Resolution, so far as it is inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 

 -Mr President, earlier this day I gave notice of motion to enable the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment to be lodged with you during the recess. Copies of the report are now available. Therefore, I now bring up the progress report from the Committee on the continuing scrutiny of pollution relating to the River Murray. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to withdraw my notice of motion and to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
Leave granted. 
-I withdraw the notice of motion in my name relating to the presentation of the report, and move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
The report is on a very important subject which is of interest to many senators. I hope that during the winter recess senators will have an opportunity to study its contents, and I seek the Government's co-operation in ensuring that early in the Budget session an opportunity is made available for a full-scale debate. I therefore seek leave to continue my remarks on the resumption of the debate. 
Leave granted. 
I support what has been said about the urgent situation that faces the wine industry and the fact that the Government should not contemplate doing anything in the Budget to damage it further at this stage when it is faced with tremendous grape surpluses. I just reiterate what I said recently in the Senate. I made these points also to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Government has to bear in mind the loss of tax revenue that would follow an inevitable downturn in the wine sales, which has been borne out by the lower revenue that we have received as a result of the imposts on potable spirits; the costs associated with carry-on finance that would be needed by disadvantaged growers as a result of such an imposition; the loss of revenue due to downturn in activity for small businesses and service industries in grape growing areas; and the increased unemployment benefits that would be the inevitable result if any further impost were placed on the industry at this stage. 
I also support what  Senator Lajovic  said about the need to promote our wines overseas. The purpose of these Bills is to provide money for the Australian Wine Board. I believe that the Wine Board should pay due regard to the need for a professionally organised market survey of countries such as America and Japan. In America there is growing awareness of the pleasures associated with the drinking of Australian wine. I believe that that is a very fertile market which could be explored by the Wine Board to our advantage. I support exactly what  Senator Lajovic  said about that. I have pleasure in supporting the Bills. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security say which person or body promoted the idea of the International Year of the Child and at which forum was this suggestion adopted? As the Australian Government has recognised the importance of this project by providing, I understand, $64m towards its success, and in view of the success of the scheme in drawing attention to the needs of children in our modern society, will the Minister give favourable consideration to conducting a year of the Australian pioneer with the object of encouraging special projects for the aged in our community, a sector which is growing in number and creating great strain on organisations dedicated to providing facilities for these citizens who have done so much for the country during their lives? 
I draw the attention of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  to a submission which was made by the South Australian branch of the Commonwealth Police Officers Association. I think that that Branch has prepared an interesting document relating to several clauses of the Bill, and expressing some concern about certain aspects of it. I do not think that the points raised are of major concern. I believe that the Minister has given due consideration to them. I understand that a lot of complaints which that branch might have will revolve around regulations. I understand also that those regulations have not been fully determined as yet, so I guess that a certain amount of flexibility exists already for resolving some of the problems which it might have simply by introducing appropriate regulations. But I suggest to the Minister that he might care to refer to these matters as they arise, clause by clause. If he can respond to them briefly I will be satisfied with that. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, concerns the price of liquefied petroleum gas, which rose by lc per litre the other day. This is the second rise within a month. Bearing in mind that the price has doubled in the last 12 months, can the Minister give me an idea of the rationalisation of the Prices Justification Tribunal in acceding to the recent request by Esso Australia Ltd for an increased price? 
I support the proposition that is before the Committee at the present time. I agree with what was said by  Senator Sir Condor  Laucke. This direction will be observed by future Presidents, whoever they may be. I am very anxious that the Government does pay due regard to the reports of Senate standing committees. Although, as  Senator Baume  said, the recommendations are not imperative, I believe that any government which fails to recognise the significance of recommendations that flow from a distillation of public examination by interested groups within the community or which fails to regard the importance of those conclusions reached as a result of the distillation of this evidence is very foolish. 
I recall the report presented some time ago by the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment on the woodchip industry. The Committee recognised that the Government was asked by a resolution of the Senate to react to this report within three months. After the three months were up 1 wrote to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Ministers concerned and asked them what action they had taken and reminded them of the resolution of the Senate. I do not know whether any other committees did that, but I can say that my Committee did. I was pleased to see that the Prime Minister recognised the significance of these reports by saying that the Government would respond to them within six months. Before the Committee received a response from the Government on that first woodchip report it presented a supplementary report. Letters were written to all Ministers concerned asking them what action had been taken and why they had not responded. We wrote respectfully to State Ministers who were also involved. We were more tactful in the way we wrote to them. As a result of those representations we were able to attract 2 1 responses to the 20 letters that we sent out. We regarded that exercise as meeting with a considerable amount of success. 
That was very well put by my friend from Victoria. I am just reminding the chairmen of the various committees and the committee members themselves that I believe Senate committees have an obligation to follow up the reports that are presented. When the  President  reports to us- hopefully after this motion is carried- I believe it will be a responsibility of chairmen of committees to react accordingly. 
I hope that we are interested in the Senate committee system. I certainly am and I know that my colleagues opposite, from the Labor Party and  Senator Mason  are interested in it. I believe it is one of the most satisfactory parts of our functions as senators. In order to bring that satisfaction to an ultimate conclusion it is our responsibility to follow up these matters. I support the motion before the Committee and ask the members of Senate standing committees to have due regard to what I have said about the matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Item 5. 
Motion (by  Senator Guilfoyle)  agreed to: 
That the proposed amendments to Standing Order 66b be agreed to. 
Item 6. 
Motion ( by  Senator Guilfoyle)  proposed: 
That the procedures contained in proposed new Standing Order 64 be adopted on a trial basis as a sessional order. 
-Is the Minister for Social Security aware of news media allegations attributed to the South Australian Minister of Health,  Mr Duncan,  that staff retrenchments at the Regency Park crippled children's complex were due to the Commonwealth Government measures which resulted in a reduction of funding to that organisation? Can the Minister say whether there is any substance to that statement? 
-I have been anxiously awaiting some hint of policy from the Opposition benches concerning the provision of jobs for the unemployed in Australia. I think it is most appropriate that the matter we are discussing now should have been raised at this time. It is true that Australia has an obligation to share its energy resources with other less fortunate countries. I am appalled to find that whenever the question of uranium mining and development in Australia is raised members of the Labor Party throw up their hands in horror and start screaming about nuclear waste. We are not talking about nuclear waste. That is an excuse that just cannot be sustained. It is an emotional argument which, in my opinion, is nonsense. 
I know very well that the United Kingdom, for example, is accepting nuclear waste from countries such as Japan well knowing that in the future it will have a resource of energy which will be quite valuable. That decision was made in the time of a Labour Government. It is quite foolish for people to turn their backs on this issue. If we are to provide jobs in Australia we have to develop the uranium mining industry as soon as possible. It is quite crazy for honourable senators opposite to suggest that action we take here will prevent 53 countries from proceeding with programs to expand nuclear energy in order to provide their populations with the energy required to increase their quality of life. If we adopt that sort of attitude we are denying people the right to improve their quality of life. I find it extraordinary that the Labor Party should adopt that attitude. 
I am also appalled that the Premier of South Australia, the Honourable Des Corcoran, should state- he was compelled to do so, of course, by the influences at the trades hall, dominated by the left wing- that he will keep in the ground, in South Australia, 10 per cent of the world's uranium resources. He said he would do so until the industry is completely safe. He is quoted in the Press as having made that statement. He disregards the other power generating industries in Australia. He chooses to disregard the fact that no industry in the world is completely safe. Recently we had evidence of that when there was a methane gas explosion at a mine in New South Wales which resulted in the deaths of 14 unfortunate workers. This created misery for their families. Hardly a ripple of concern was expressed in the papers of Australia about that accident yet if a uranium industry worker tripped and broke his neck in Harrisburg or at another nuclear plant there would be hell to pay. It would be an international incident. 
There were 14 deaths in that coal mine in New South Wales. That industry has a safety record which is absolutely appalling when compared with that of the nuclear industry. Probably not as many as 14 deaths have occurred in the nuclear industry since it began. All the waste accumulated from throughout the world since the 1950s when nuclear power was developed would cover the Adelaide Oval to a depth of about one metre. What is the Opposition talking about? It just displays total ignorance. While the Opposition is denying job opportunities to people in South Australia and while it is denying people jobs by constant frustration and constant agitation by the left wing elements within the trade union movement, it asks what the Government is going to do to provide jobs. As  Senator Young  has illustrated, at Roxby Downs alone there would be 5,000 jobs. 
-I will tell the honourable senator when, if he will listen. After 15 September, when the government in South Australia is changed, a government that will be led by  Mr Tonkin  and will not be harnessed and restricted by the stupid actions of a trades hall, we will see the jobs created at Roxby Downs. Within four years 5,000 jobs will be provided in that area alone. Let me give another example. At the Beverley deposits, in the vicinity of Lake Frome, there is a considerable amount of uranium. This could be developed within 18 months by a leaching process in which fluid is injected into the ore body- a process which has environmental appeal. The proposition alone would require $100m worth of steel. 'Where could that steel be prefabricated?', I ask the honourable senators from South Australia. The obvious answer is Whyalla. Yet the Opposition asks what the Government is doing about providing jobs for Whyalla. That is what we want to do. The Opposition talks about uranium enrichment plants. 
The Opposition does not like to listen to this, because it is true. 

 -Certainly, Mr President. I am just reminding the Opposition that it has charged the Government with not being interested in providing jobs in Whyalla and in the northern part of South Australia- the socalled iron triangle. I should like to read to the 
Senate a letter written to me by the Mayor of the city of Port Pirie- a very densely populated Labor city. The letter is dated 20 December 1 977. What does the Mayor say? 
Yes, we might have; but I will tell the Senate what the Mayor says in his letter: 
Dear  Senator, 
The matter of support for your actions regarding the establishment of a Uranium Enrichment Plant in this area was put to Council on 5th December 1 977 and a motion supporting your enterprise was carried. 
We are most grateful for your efforts to obtain this industry for our city. 
We will be anxiously awaiting a decision on the Uranium Enrichment Plant, and also to meet you in the New Year to further discuss this proposition. 
That is an acknowledgement from a Labor city. 
Yes, I did go there in the New Year. I took with me an expert who knows a lot more about uranium enrichment - 
The expert was  Dr John  Symonds from Lucas Heights. He is a former South Australian; he was educated at the Adelaide High School. This particular meeting was convened by the Mayor of Port Pirie. I supplied the expertise from Lucas Heights. 
Yes, I did. I invited  Dr Symonds  to attend the meeting, and the Lucas Heights authorities were very pleased to be able to educate the people of the north to such a degree that they are now satisfied that there are no problems at all associated with uranium enrichment, despite the nonsense and the red herrings that are drawn across the trail by members of the Opposition. 
A member of the Uranium Enrichment Committee happens to be  Mr Dickinson,  who was Director of Mines when the Radium Hill project was developed. He has assured me from personal knowledge and inquiry that a lot of nonsense was spoken about that particular dump at Port Pirie. It has been proved safe by the State Department of Health and a statement has been made accordingly. 
I want, in a few moments, to draw to the attention of the Senate statements which have been made by  Mr Dunstan.  In late January and early February this year South Australia's then Premier went overseas on a study tour related to developments of nuclear safeguards. In Amsterdam, at the conclusion of this trip, he said that, since the decision at the Australian Labor Party Federal Conference in Perth in July 1 977 not to mine uranium until the Party was satisfied that it was safe to do so, 'the question of ultimate safe disposal has altered dramatically'.  Mr Dunstan  also said in Amsterdam: 
All the conditions which South Australia would want can be provided in the next couple of years. 
Of course, as  Senator Young  said, while  Mr Dunstan  was away the left wing, led by  Mr Peter  Duncan, stabbed him in the back and forced his retirement. He was genuinely trying to help South Australia, and the Trades Hall would not allow him to do so. Another thing which  Mr Dunstan  said, before embarking on the overseas trip to which I have referred, was: 
Supposing I can get it off the ground - 
Perhaps that should read 'out of the ground ': 
Roxby Downs is potentially one of the biggest mines in the world. It is potentially a mine decidedly larger than Mt Isa. It would create jobs directly and spin off thousands of othersand if it is linked to a uranium enrichment plant- there are thousands more again. 
Yet  Mr Duncan  gets up and says that a lot of nonsense is associated with the development of Roxby Downs and that no job opportunities are provided in that development. That indicates to me that the Labor Party must take a serious look at its front bench and put a few more responsible people there. 
I was interested in the ALP theme for the current election, namely, 'Follow a leader'. The ALP has jingles and variations on this theme flooding the radio, television and other media throughout South Australia, in an attempt to brainwash the electorate into believing that the ALP is the best thing since sliced bread. The theme 'Follow a leader' reminds me of the Pied Piper of Hamelin, who tootled his flute and led all the brown rats, the tawny rats, the grey rats and the little kids dancing and singing over the cliff into the sea. I suggest that, the people having heard the non-policy, the unemployment policy of the Labor Party, that is precisely what will happen in South Australia. Unless they change the government on 1 5 September, I believe that there will be no hope. 
-Peter Duncan says that categorically, and the Labor Party regards him as a potential replacement for  Mr Des  Corcoran. I believe that what will happen in South Australia if  Mr Corcoran  is successful- I just cannot believe that he will be, because the South Australians have already woken up to this- is that he will be like the Pied Piper. He will lead the people of South Australia over the cliff and they will be floundering in a sea of industrial frustration and industrial hopelessness. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Does the Minister recall that in April this year  Mr Staley  visited Eyre Peninsula with me to discuss matters relating to the extension of television to people in those areas still not enjoying a service? As the Minister indicated that he would be in a position to make a statement on the subject in about three months, and as this time has now expired, can he say why the Department has not been able to come forward with details concerning the capital works program, giving information about the sites of installation, the dates of commencement and other aspects associated with the extension of television to those parts of Eyre Peninsula currently without a service? 
Honourable senators will be aware that I do not use the adjournment debate as a compulsive way of expressing a point of view. Therefore, I hope that they will bear with me while I outline as briefly as possible my concern over the operation of certain cults which shelter under the guise of religious organisations and which are operating in Australia. My concern has been highlighted by an article in today's Sydney  Sun  under the bold heading 'Sect terror chief here- Smuggled in with bomb devices'. I do not know whether there is any truth in that but it highlights the significance of what I have to say. I will quote the first two sentences of this article. It states: 
A world terrorist expert for a religious sect has been smuggled into Australia in a light plane. He brought with him weapons and devices for remotely exploding bombs. 
I raise this subject as a Christian member of parliament and as one who believes in the democratic right of an individual to have the freedom of spiritual expression. I certainly would not wish to prevent or interfere with the activities of genuine organisations which offer spiritual satisfaction to their members. However, I have conclusive evidence that some pseudo-religious cults are operating in Australia. Their activities give me grave concern for two major reasons. Firstly, they give me concern because of the methods used to indoctrinate their victims which present a serious threat to the mental and physical health and which have resulted in some instances in the admission of people to psychiatric institutions. As responsible senators dedicated to the interests of the people we represent, I believe that we should have such practices examined by the appropriate Federal or State authority in order to establish the authenticity of the allegations I have made. Secondly, and again I have conclusive evidence of this practice, they give me concern because of the financial exploitation of cultists who have been converted to a cause. 
For the sake of brevity, I will give honourable senators an example of each of these categories. The first is a case of a young man aged 24 years who happens to be a personal friend of mine. He suffers from a hitherto incurable neurological disease and is currently confined to a wheelchair. Because of his illness he was interested in the socalled salvation offered by a spiritual cult which promised a better life after death. He was influenced to the extent that he handed over to the cult his entire life savings of $5,000 and was subsequently advised by his spiritual father to go overseas and enter a temple for further spiritual education. Of course, the cult provided him with a meatless low-protein diet. He was left alone in the bedroom for most of the time and was awakened at 3.30 a.m. after nights of study and prayer book reading. Being a conscientious and intelligent young man, this often kept him awake until fairly late at night. Fortunately for him, he became seriously ill with dysentery and feared that he might die there. I believe that this could well have happened had it not been for the timely arrival of his cousin, who was holidaying in that country at the time. Being unable to walk, he was, in effect, immobile and certainly it would have been impossible for him to travel some miles to the railway station. 
He has now left the cult and returned to his family. Two weeks ago when I was at his home he thanked me for alerting potential victims of these organisations and warning them of their operations in Australia. The second illustration to which I want to refer - 
The money is gone. I am glad to say that he has been able to find employment although he suffers from a condition called Friedreich 's ataxia, which is a nerve-ending disease. For example, I telephoned him today and it took him about 10 minutes to get to the telephone. He was not very far away from itprobably about a distance equivalent to the width of this chamber. When he wants to walk around his home he has to stagger along a wall in order to gain support. 
The second illustration to which I want to refer is the interesting case of a lady from New South Wales who became involved with one of these pseudo-religious organisations because she felt the need of some spiritual satisfaction that apparently was unable to be fulfilled by her own church. This lady was married with a large family.  Her  husband was a fairly successful businessman.  Her  involvement soon extended to the stage at which she was away from home at spiritual meetings four or five nights of the week. She was selected for promotion, being an attractive and intelligent person, I understand, and one who could assist in the indoctrination of others. She was offered courses in spiritual education which cost from $25 an hour up to about $650 a day. Honourable senators might be interested in just one or two illustrations of the courses that they have to offer. 
The document that 1 intend to quote from is the  Times Communicator  of April 1979. It is an American publication representing the news and advertisements from the spiritual movements. They include the Americana Leadership College, Astro-soul, Growing Executives of Tomorrow, Inner Peace Movement, Peace Community Church and Profound Mystical Meditation. One of the courses that was offering and as far as I know is still offering is entitled 'Orientation Profile'. It takes one hour and costs $25. A course entitled 'Balance of Thought and Feeling Profile' lasts 1½ hours and costs $40. The course Soul Consciousness Profile' takes an hour and costs $45. For a course entitled 'The Dynamics of Astro-Soul: Instructorship Methods' on Saturday, 28 April, the fee was $200 and the refresher fee $ 100. The duration of the course was from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. On Sunday, 29 April, for a course entitled ' Inner Communication and Guidance: Instructorship Methods', the course fee was $200 and the refresher fee $ 100. The course was from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. I should point out that those figures are in United States currency. I seek leave to incorporate those documents in  Hansard.  I checked with the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster),  who was previously at the table, and with the former occupant of the Chair,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  They have both given approval. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

APRIL 28-29 
1.' T' Courses 
Saturday, April 28 701-C-T: The dynamics of astro-soul: Instructorship methods 
This course prepares you to instruct course 701-C: The Dynamics of Astro-Soul. You will take a look at how to maintain your pivot point while you expand your boundaries and go beyond previous standards. You will review your life purpose and the ways you can put pressure on yourself by judging your progress along the way. (Prerequisite: 701-C) 
COURSE FEE: $200.00 REFRESHER FEE: $100.00 
(U.S. currency) 
TIME: Saturday, 9.00 a.m.-4.00 p.m. 
Sunday, April 29  541-T: Inner communication and guidance: Instructorship methods 
Prepare yourself to instruct Course 341: Inner Communication and Guidance in the community. Expand your feelings of concern, discernment, inner discipline and gentleness in your spiritual leadership. Learn important keys to promote your courses. Experience five advanced techniques and understand each of them at a deeper feeling level. ( Prerequisite: 54 1 and be a current IPM subscriber) 
COURSE FEE: $200.00 REFRESHER FEE: $100.00 
( U.S. currency) 
TIME: Sunday, 9.00 a.m.-5.00 p.m. 
Counselling courses 
Counselling courses will be available at all four National Conference Centres on the fourth weekend of the month according to your needs. If five people request a particular counselling course, it will be scheduled at the centre. 
If you wish to take a counselling course, write or call Washington, D.C. with your name, address, and telephone number, and the name of the counselling course you definitely wish to take. 
The deadline to contact the national office in Washington, D.C. to schedule a counselling course in May is April 26. 
If a minimum of five people request the course at any National Conference Centre, it will be given at that Centre. Plan early to get what you want! 
Counsellors' regrouping 
The theme for April is "Discerning Your Timing in a Counselling: Working with Spirit". If you are a counsellor you will not want to miss the Special Counsellors' Regrouping to be held Saturday evening, April 28th from 7.00-10.00 p.m. There will be a panel of experienced counsellors sharing on how to attract more counsellings, keys to polish your professional image and be in tune with the timing of Spirit. You will have time to ask questions regarding counselling. 
This fee is: $3.00 
You will find it well worth your time to be there. 
PROFILE OF COUNSELLINGS AVAILABLE 
1001 Orientation Profile (1 hour $25) 
This counselling is a comprehensive profile of your spiritual energy and the personal communication system of your four spiritual gifts. You discover the order of your gifts and the percent you have unfolded them. You will also discover how much you have unfolded your constructive energy. Personal spiritual guidance is explained and you learn techniques to form a clear, two-way communication you can trust.  1001  Swing Update  (1 hour $25) 
This counselling is an expansion of the 1001 Orientation Profile. It helps you refine your spiritual communication system as you discover which of your gifts are stable and which have a tendency to swing or vary in percentage when you encounter pressure. 
Through personal therapy, you explore the gift which is interfering with your inner communication. You will discover the keys to regain a balanced orientation to life and smooth flow of communication within. This counselling may be experienced more than once and will provide you with a continuous record of your own spiritual growth.  1002 Blockage Discovery Profile (1 hour $25) 
This profile helps you discover and identify patterns in your life that are holding you back from fulfilment and success. These patterns are usually the result of experiences you had early in life which you did not understand at the time. In the course of this counselling you discover ways to live your life more clearly based on your own true feelings rather than by interpretations you were taught to accept.  1003-  A  Percent of Balance in the Glandular System (1 hour $25) 
This one-hour profile helps you clarify your relationship between the spiritual and the physical natures of your life. You experience a profile of your seven spiritual energy centres and a personal therapy program that you can use for increased levels and personal unfoldment  1003-B Depth Therapy Profile (1 hour S30) 
This profile focusses on one of the glandular centres and explores the unconscious attitudes and feelings you have in that area. Through this exploration you will emerge with a stronger sense of security in areas such as self-acceptance, relating to yourself and your surroundings, your wants and needs, your incentive to accomplish, your identification and giving of yourself.  1003-C Chakras Depth Chart Profile (1 hour $35) 
This profile is a deeper exploration into one of the spiritual energy centres to uncover concepts or feelings which create unnecessary pressure in your life. You will explore habits, attitudes and unconscious feelings that stimulate tension and anxiety which could lead to physical illness. As you begin to understand why you feel uncomfortable in certain environments, you will clarify ways to release that pressure.  1003-D Spiritual Compatability Profile (216 hours $45 per person) 
This counselling is designed for two people to establish crystal clear communication and develop a closer business or personal relationship. Each person will discover how well the relationship meets the needs of both people involved. You discover how your spiritual nature interacts with others. You will understand the role your personal unfoldment plays in your relationship with others. As you clarify your personal loyalties, you will emerge with a new respect and understanding for yourself and your relationship.  1004 Balance of Thought and Feeling Profile  (Vi  hours $40) 
This counselling is presented in 2 parts. Each part is an indepth search into the unfoldment of two of the spiritual gifts. You discover the areas of balanced characteristics of each gift to a higher degree. A practical personal therapy program is explained to you which helps you continue to strengthen your best qualities.  2001 Universal Energy Chart (1 hour $45) 
As you begin to accelerate your spiritual development you may discover that there are thoughts and energies from past lives that may hold you back from the unfoldment you desire. Seeing a spiritual 'X-ray ' of your aura in this profile, you gain an understanding on a deeper level of how outside pressures and influences can affect your every day life. This discovery of impositions from the past and the present allow you to release these habits and thought patterns. 2002 Soul Consciousness Profile (1 hour $45) 
By the time you reach this level in the personal counselling program, the areas you are exploring are very subtle and refined. This counselling is available for each of your four gifts. In it you look at the relationship between your gifts and your spiritual energy centres. You see how pressure in one area may affect you physically or spiritually in another. Through understanding how your consciousness in one particular gift affects you, you clarify, pinpoint and release these pressures. 
Returning to the family to whom I have just referred, it might be asked why the husband did not cease providing money for this exercise. The answer is simple. The teaching of this cult is that if anything interferes with the cultist's spiritual activities he must dissociate himself from that interference, which in this case obviously would mean that this lady would have to leave her husband and family, all of whom happen to love her. 
The activities in Australia of these cults has resulted in a few associations being formed to expose them to the community. One of these is the Association Exposing Pseudo-Religious Cults, which is associated with the Concerned Citizens and Parents Association of Western Australia, and I will outline three or four of their main concerns, although the list is of considerable length. They are concerned about fraud, false pretences and misrepresentation, which they suggest are being used in cults' fund-raising activities and recruitment practices. According to their allegations, undue influence is being used by some cults to coerce recruits to hand over savings, personal property and income. They also are concerned that demonstrably wealthy leaders are making personal untaxed profits from the activities of some cults, selling goods under the protection offered to benevolent societies. They suggest that some cults are infringing the civil liberties of the individual by using techniques of mind control, including mental coercion and mind manipulation. 
A number of my colleagues have been concerned about the matter. I notice that  Mr Frank  O 'Keefe raised it in the House of Representatives during the adjournment debate last night.  Mr Sam  Calder also has demonstrated an interest, as have  Senator Don  Chipp and  Senator Knight,  who I understand may have something to say in a moment. I have no doubt that some people find spiritual satisfaction in these organisations and, as I mentioned at the outset, I do not wish to prevent their having their choice of spiritual expression. However, if practices are being employed which affect or endanger people's health and extort large sums of money from converts and their families, I believe it is time that the governments of Australia had a look at them. In relation to extortion by these sorts of organisations, I heard last week on the ABC, I think it was, of a case in America in which a former Scientology Church member, a young woman whose property and all her worldly possessions had been taken by the church, won a court action and was awarded $2m. The church had acquired all her worldy possessions and she was able to prove that that was against the interests of the community. I ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  to list this matter for serious discussion at an early meeting of Federal and State Attorneys-General. I apologise for keeping the Senate for 12V4 minutes longer than otherwise would have been the case. 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications recall that he informed me during Question Time on 30 August that his colleague,  Mr Staley,  undertook to provide me 'next week' with details concerning the program for the extension of television services on Eyre Peninsula in South Australia? Did the Minister mean the next calendar week or the next sitting week? As both weeks have now passed, will the Minister as a matter of urgency provide me with these details by the end of this sitting week as the matter is of great concern to people on Eyre Peninsula? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for National Development noted that the new South Australian Minister for Mines and Energy,  Mr Roger  Goldsworthy, has announced that he will give approval for the development of the Honeymoon uranium deposit at Lake Frome almost immediately? Does the Minister realise that South Australia possesses approximately 10 per cent of the world 's uranium? In view of the determination of the new State Government to develop the State's resources, and bearing in mind its strategic position, will the Federal Government negotiate with the State to establish a uranium enrichment industry in South Australia, which I believe could be ideally situated at Port Pirie? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to a report on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  AM  this morning. Is it a fact that the Queensland Government has returned funds to the Federal Government that were not used for 
Aboriginal purposes in that State? Can the Minister provide specific details on the matter? 
-I commend the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  on the statement he has tabled. As  chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, I welcome the new thrust that apparently will emerge from the report. I have yet to examine the report in detail but my Committee will be doing that in depth and no doubt will come forward with an objective comment. 
Bearing in mind the personnel involved, we are very incisive in our examination of such reports. I think that that is one reason why the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has chosen to change the thrust of its reports in the future. I commend the Organisation for that. It is necessary to bear in mind that these annual reports are the only way in which the general public as well as members of Parliament can make an assessment of the work that is being done by important bodies such as CSIRO. I hope that within the body of the report we will gain some idea of its future policy thrusts, the direction in which it intends going in the future and obtain more information concerning future activities of the Organisation. 
I agree with  Senator Button's  reference to staff mobility. Our recent report on industrial research and development pointed to the need for more interchange between government research organisations and industry. I support that view. I hope that in response to our report on industrial research and development the Government may well take those ideas to heart and act upon them. I look forward to the Government's response on that report. I also look forward to examining in detail the annual report before us at the moment. I will say more about that at the appropriate time. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I present the report from the Committee of Privileges relating to the quotation of unparliamentary language in debate which was referred to the Committee on 29 May 1979. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- The Senate may recall that on 29 May last a ruling was made by the Acting  Deputy President  to the effect that it is not permissible for an honourable senator to quote during debate words which he would not be permitted to use in direct speech. Objection was taken to this ruling on the ground that it restricted the right of free speech during parliamentary proceedings which every senator enjoys under section 49 of the Constitution. The Senate agreed to refer the matter to the Privileges Committee. The Committee, having carefully considered the matter, believes that there is no question of privilege involved. 
The report I have just tabled makes two main points. Firstly, there is no inconsistency between the freedom of speech in Parliament, that is, the freedom from question or interference by any court or other authority outside Parliament, and the rules of order which each House imposes upon its members in relation to the language they may use. The report quotes authorities to support this proposition, in particular the following extracts from Erskine May's  Parliamentary Practice  under the heading ' Restraint of Speech in Parliament': 
Speech and action in Parliament may thus be said to be unquestioned and free. But this freedom from external influence or interference does not involve any unrestrained licence of speech within the walls of the House. . . 
The quotation continues: 
The cases in which Members have been called to account and punished by the House for offensive words spoken before the House are too numerous to mention. Some have been admonished, others imprisoned, and in the Commons some have been expelled. 
Secondly, the report notes that the ruling in question was consistent with previous rulings by various Presidents of the Senate, and expressed the established practice of the Senate. It is a long established rule, and is well expressed in the following quotation from Erskine May: 
A Member is not allowed to use unparliamentary words by the device of putting them in somebody else's mouth. 
The Committee recommends that if the Senate considers that the possibility or desirability of altering the well-established rules of debate in relation to this matter should be examined, such examination should be undertaken by the Standing Orders Committee. I commend the report to the Senate. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that the South Australian Liberal Government has indicated that it is anxious to complete the construction of the Stuart Highway within five years as part of the program to revive the economy of the State? Has his attention been drawn to the fact that currently South Australia is losing about $90m a year to Queensland due to the extremely poor state of the north-south road? Has he also noted that the Prime Minister is reported to have stated in Adelaide yesterday that the Federal Government would give this project a national priority and that the Stuart Highway situation could cause the Federal Government to question the present national highways policy? In view of these points, will the Minister ask his colleague to press the Government to adopt the suggestion I have made on previous occasions, that is, to provide the Federal Minister with funds over and above the current allocation to the States for national highways so that the Federal Government is able to make a special grant to enable the Stuart Highway to be completed within five years? 
-The Minister for Social Security will appreciate that many organisations are anxious to learn of the next Federal Government program for the funding of aged persons' homes. Is the Minister aware that I have had many representations from bodies in South Australia which have raised funds in the community for this purpose and which require the Minister's assurance to enable them to obtain bridging finance so that the projects can be commenced? When will the Minister be in a position to announce which projects are included in the approved list for the next phase of the program? 
-I refer the Minister for Education to the fact that research funding in Australia has declined in real terms since 1970. In view of the need for Australia to maintain its position with respect to research and development in the face of international competition at a time when we are on the verge of a technological revolution, will the Minister exert his influence on the Government to review this policy with the objective of substantially increasing Government funding and incentives to industry, et cetera, in order to step up our research capacity, which I regard as very critical to Australia. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry provide any reason for the hold-up in approvals for joint feasibility fishing projects off the coast of South Australia? My attention has been drawn particularly to a squid fishing project at Port Lincoln involving a Japanese company, Nippon Suisan for which I understand State government approval has been given. Is the Minister aware of the unemployment problems at Port Lincoln and that many job opportunities would flow from this venture as, of course, they would flow from other projects that are anticipated in other areas? As the fishing season begins in November and prompt notification is required to enable the Japanese research vessels to arrive in South Australian waters by that time, will the Minister treat the matter of granting Commonwealth approval as one of urgency and request his colleague to contact the companies concerned as early as possible? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications been drawn to an article which appeared in a recent edition of the  West Coast Sentinel,  a newspaper which circulates in the Eyre Peninsula region of South Australia, the substance of which is that no funds have been allocated in the current financial year for the extension of television services to the Eyre Peninsula? I draw the Minister's attention to what I regard as a misleading headline associated with that article which says 'No money for Eyre Peninsula television'. I think it is grossly misleading. Is this an accurate indication of the view taken by the Government of this most important project? If not, will the Minister once and for all explain to the Senate the current position in the provision of television services to Eyre Peninsula residents? Also, does the Minister recall that some time ago the Government approved and announced a capital works program for television extension to this area estimated to cost in excess of $2m and which was planned to be completed by 1 983? Is the Minister confident this deadline will be met? 
-I would like to make a few remarks on this report. The Senate has been waiting for years for governments to act on the proper control of the River Murray, but nothing has happened. I think that very little change has been made to the River Murray Waters Agreement since the River Murray Commission's first meeting in 1917. The River Murray working party reported in October 1975. I believe that some results should have emanated from that report. After the report was made the four governments- Commonwealth, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia- agreed that the Commission should be able to take water quality and environmental matters into consideration. Yet no legislation has been passed to give the Commission any legal right to deal with, let alone consider, such matters since the tabling of that report. Following the tabling of the River Murray working party's report on 21 October 1976 the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  said: 1 now expect that work will commence on updating and consolidating the River Murray Waters Agreement to include the necessary amendments. 
When the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment produced its report this had still not been done, and still nothing has happened. I am convinced nevertheless of the present Government's good intentions. I believe that this is borne out by the fact that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  wrote to me on 6 July and stated: 
Finally, I share your concern at the need to accelerate the formalisation of water quality responsibilities of the River Murray Commission in an amended River Murray Waters Agreement, and I hope to be in a position in the next few weeks to invite the appropriate State Ministers to have a meeting with me to iron out the difficulties which have arisen over the last year. 
I understand that a meeting of the State and Commonwealth Ministers is scheduled for 22 October at which the state of the River Murray Waters Agreement will be discussed. It is my earnest hope that action will result from this meeting. However, my greatest fear is that the whole question will be put into the modern bureaucrat's equivalent of a too hard basket- some committee will be set up to look at what countless committees have looked at before- and proper management of the Murray will be delayed for another decade. 
My Committee believes that it should act as a catalyst to stimulate action. We believe that this sort of approach is just not good enough. To give an example of inexcusable bureaucratic delay, I refer to the amendments proposed to the River Murray Waters Agreement in July 1978 by the River Murray Commission. It is my understanding that the State Attorney-General's departments have not even looked at these proposals. Let me give another example. I propose to have the Parliamentary Library's Constitutional and 
Legal Affairs group look at this aspect. The River Murray Commission is operating illegally every time it spends any money looking at or even considering environmental matters. This sort of thing cannot be allowed to go on. I think it is about time that the public knew that the Victorian Government has come up with a set of new proposals which it refuses to spell out and which has destroyed any chance of agreement on this urgent issue being resolved quickly. It has taken years of delicate negotiations to get agreement on proposals to deal with water quality in this important river system. It has taken years to get powers for the Commission, and the whole effort has now been torpedoed. The Victorians have apparently introduced quite new matters into this whole issue, such as some vague scheme for a council of ministers to oversee the Murray, but have not had the courtesy of detailing their ideas for the benefit of other States and the Commonwealth. 
One firm recommendation was made in our report. We said that the Murray Valley salinity and drainage study- The Maunsell report- be made public immediately. I have had a look at this draft report. I understand that with minor alterations it has been accepted. It was agreed to nearly three months ago, yet no report has been tabled in the Parliament. Furthermore, we have been told that the Department of National Development is preparing an abridged edition of the report so that the public can understand it. Even that document has not yet surfaced. I do not know the reason for the delay. We have been told that some technical matters are detailed in the report. I understand from academic sources that a lecturer in journalism was employed to produce a report which perhaps could- be made more acceptable to the public. I further understand that his draft did not meet with universal approval in the Department of National Development and that another draft had to be prepared, causing further delay. When this sort of thing happens it is understandable that people along the Murray express the feeling that they are being snowed by the bureaucracy. I believe that they are entitled to this view. 
If the bureaucracy thinks that it will snow the Senate committee on this matter it has another think coming. The Committee has a responsibility. It is dedicated to the important role of overseeing environmental matters in Australia. The question of overseeing water quality becomes paramount. I think that people often forget that our most important national resource is water. I personally think- I believe this view is shared by members of my committee- that the question of water pollution in the River Murray is a national issue and transcends State borders. The effluent of Victoria and New South Wales becomes the drinking water of South Australia. Without adequate water supplies in South Australia- South Australia is the driest State in the Commonwealth- our industrial progress is inhibited. During the course of our inquiry into the pollution of the River Murray we learned not only that the River Murray and its tributaries in the States contribute to pollution of that water resource but also that water from Queensland finds its way into the River Murray system and can add to the pollution. 
My colleague  Senator Thomas,  as  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources, presented to the Senate a report which indicated that the Committee believed that a national water authority ought to be established. One could say that that might appear to be contrary to the spirit of the present Government in Australia, but I do not think that that really matters when it comes to an important resource such as water. I believe that it is a national responsibility. It is the responsibility of the national government to see that water quality throughout Australia is preserved. As far as I am concerned, the spirit of federalism, if we want to pursue that philosophy, can be preserved in this very vital matter. I believe that a national water authority ought to be established by the Commonwealth, with representation from all the States and the Northern Territory, to enable a far greater say to be had in what happens with this important resource. The River Murray Commission is inhibited simply because the State and Federal governments have not agreed to give it the necessary power, authority and financial resources to determine what salinity mitigation control projects should be undertaken. It is inhibited because the governments insist upon a majority view in relation to the Commission. I believe that the River Murray Commission ought to have the authority and the legislative teeth to deal with the problem, and I think that the progress report we have presented demonstrates that view. 
I can assure the Senate that we are waiting anxiously for the Government's response to this report. I can also assure the Senate that we are anxious to examine the Maunsell report, which has been presented and at present is being printed. We have asked the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  to make that report available in its entirety so that we can look at its technical aspects and we will be making a further report on this very important question as soon as that report is made available to us. I think that every honourable senator in this chamber ought to regard this report as being fundamental to the development of Australia. Without adequate water supplies and without adequate high quality water this country will be inhibited in its development. I rest my case on that and assure the Senate that my Committee will follow this through to ensure that the people of Australia are protected in relation to this very valuable resource. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that the ore body of the Western Mining Corporation's copper and uranium field at Olympic Dam on Roxby Downs sheep station in South Australia extends for more than 30 kilometres inside the security zone defined by the United States and Australian defence authorities? Can the Minister say whether the company has approached the Department of Defence with the object of moving the northern boundary to enable free access of drilling crews and to facilitate the development of this huge project? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Does the Minister recall that earlier this year the Federal Government approved an infrastructure loan of about $ 175 m to the State Government of South Australia in order that the infrastructure associated with the Redcliff petrochemical works could be carried out? Does he also recall that almost immediately Dow Chemical (Australia) Ltd authorised a $3m engineering feasibility study of that project? Can the Minister say what progress has been made with respect to the Redcliff proposal, and when does he think the company will be in a position to make a decision on the matter? 
Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of a conference that was attended at Port Augusta on Monday by  Mr Ian  Viner? I understand that the object of the conference was to launch a program for the training of Aboriginals in that area. Can the Minister give any details of the training program envisaged? I understand that similar programs are in operation in Australia. Can he indicate whether they are operating successfully? 
-I have listened with interest to what  Senator Gietzelt  has had to say about the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill 1979. I heard him say that the Liberal-National Country Party Government was intent upon cutting wages. I do not think that is a proper statement and it ought to be cleared up straight away. The Government has a realistic attitude to wage increases and, in fact, I think I could almost agree with what  Mr Clyde  Cameron said at one time. He pointed out that one man's wage increase costs another man his job. With these measures the Government is advocating a rationalisation of attitudes with respect to wage increases. I think that  Senator Gietzelt  also asked what was the urgency of this measure. That was also referred to by  Senator Chipp  during the course of his speech. I heard  Senator Lewis  make the comment by way of interjection that the country is faced with absolute turmoil at the present time. 
-It is all right to say that, but if the honourable senator has any interest in Victoria he will know that the public transport system is paralysed. 
-That is okay, but New South Wales ought to start thinking about measures to introduce emergency services legislation similar to the legislation introduced by  Sir Charles  Court. I believe that is another area of great significance to the welfare of the workers of Australia. I get very cross when I hear people on the Opposition benches say that the Government is not interested in the welfare of trade unionists in Australia. That is totally wrong and false. The Government believes that the legislation it has introduced progressively since it came to power in 1 976 is in the interests of the people. We are concerned that the trade union movement has become discredited, simply because of the irresponsible attitude of a minor number of militant trade union leaders who choose to take the people they represent along a course of strike action in what quite often I believe to be unnecessary circumstances. 
I recall three or four months ago when attempts were made to cause a strike in Western 
Australia to flow into the national sphere. In South Australia the majority of the 160 trade union representatives committed 100,000 trade unionists to support a national strike. That was an irresponsible measure. It proved to be a failure, and that sort of thing has to be dealt with. The people of Australia, including responsible, genuine trade unionists, look to the Government. Many trade unionists come to me and ask what the Government will do to stop this crazy industrial disputation persisting in Australia today. 
-Of course they do. The responsible trade unionists would come to me because they realise that this Government has a responsible attitude to restoring the credibility of the trade union movement. That is why I believe this step we are taking tonight will be of some help to the people who are disadvantaged so often. Some of the statements in newspapers today- editorials and so on- point to the concern of the people. I was impressed with the editorial in today's  Australian.  Under the heading 'Backlash against striking unions', the editorial states: 
Some powerful trade unions seem to be intent on demonstrating the need for restrictive legislation to curb their reckless strike activity. No sooner is one wave of strife behind us than another rears up to disrupt people 's lives and strangle the economy. 
For example, the port of Sydney is again in chaos, this time due to a pay strike by harbour pilots- bringing the number of harbour stoppages to 68 in the past 12 months for an average of more than one a week. The Port of Melbourne was little better last year with 36 disputes (one every 10 days) directly and indirectly involving 22,000 workers, obliterating 42,400 working days and costing $1.5m in lost wages. 
I cannot be convinced that that sort of action by the trade union movement is in the best interests of the people it purports to represent. As far as I am concerned, the action we have taken as a Government has been in the interests of the welfare of the people about whom we are concerned. I thought  Mr Street's  statement enunciating the industrial relations policy of the Government was so impressive that I want to reread it to the Senate: 
In the face of industrial disputation the public are too often the losers. This Government represents the public and protects them in industrial disputes. All the initiatives I outlined have that consideration as their principal aim. Moreover, in order to protect the public all of the Government's industrial relations policies have been developed in a spirit of consultation to promote understanding and consensus in the interests of employers, employees and the community. 
I think I heard  Senator Gietzelt  refer to what the Employers' Federation might think about this legislation. I do not know what their collective view is, but I have spoken to industrial relations representatives of large companies. The ones I have consulted say that they do not know what all the fuss is about because they can see no dangers at all in the legislation. 

 - Senator McLaren always encourages me by his interjections. One person to whom I have spoken happens to be in the airlines industry, and I could name others if  Senator McLaren  wished it. We embarked on a course of protection of the workers of Australia, and in 1976 we introduced the secret postal ballot. I hope that in the long term that will help to resolve a lot of the union troubles in Australia. Undoubtedly many trade union problems arise from the wrong type of leadership, and I believe that the trade unionists of Australia are very apathetic in that regard. I have a high regard for them as workers, but not when it comes to relinquishing a game of bowls in favour of going to a union meeting to elect a responsible leadership. Some of them are becoming a little tired of the way they are being manipulated, and the Government thought that secret postal ballots would be of some value to them. 
We have introduced measures dealing with notification of elections, collegiate voting, accounting practices and financial reporting by employer and employee organisations, and many other measures, including the Industrial Relations Bureau, although unfortunately we have removed a few of its teeth. If it had continued in its original form perhaps it would have been more effective. In November 1978 we introduced legislation to prohibit certain conduct by members of trade unions where that conduct had the purpose and effect or likely effect of preventing or substantially hindering a third person from engaging in interstate or overseas trade or commerce. That is another area about which I have become particularly worried. A lot of organisations that are contemplating expanding their industries in Australia have the major worry that they may not be able to guarantee delivery overseas of their products. 
One such company is Dow Chemical (Australia) Ltd, which is contemplating a large industrial petrochemical expansion in South Australia. It has great concern that delivery of its product may be delayed because of stupidity on the waterfront, and it ought to concern every member of this Senate, if we are interested in providing job opportunities. My friends on the Opposition benches often accuse us of creating unemployment. We are embarking on a program in South Australia that will provide at least 50,000 jobs over the next 10 years. For example, two mining projects can be started, one in nine months. 
-I am talking about the problem of industrial relations and how it has an effect on the problems of South Australia. It seems to me that the question of industrial disputes involving the waterfront is of fundamental importance to us in this place. I am sure that the South Australian Government would also be worried that development will be inhibited because of action that may be taken by certain irresponsible sections of the trade union movement.  ( Quorum formed).  I was talking about the concern of companies who are going to expand their activities in South Australia about the disruption that constantly occurs on the waterfront and inhibits their capacity to guarantee delivery overseas of their products. 
I have just read about disruption on the waterfront in New South Wales. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport say what progress has been made towards establishing a national code of safety relating to the conversion of motor vehicles to operate on liquefied petroleum gas? Is the Minister aware that, among others, I made representations to him following an approach by an executive of General MotorsHolden's Ltd earlier this year, and that I expressed the concern of the motor manufacturing industry in this matter? Has the Minister noted an accident which occurred at Newcastle yesterday in which a taxi driver was burned following an explosion of LPG in his vehicle, which I believe highlights the urgency for Government action in this matter? 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for National Development to the meeting of Ministers held in Melbourne on Monday of this week to consider amendments to the River Murray Agreement in order to update the powers of the River Murray Commission. Is it a fact that, following the meeting, the Commonwealth, New South Wales and South Australian Ministers will now authorise crown law advisers to start negotiations on the new agreement? Can the Minister explain why the Victorian Government has not taken a similar step? Can he also explain why the Victorians appear to be continually frustrating these negotiations? Is this an 'I'm all right, Jack' attitude on the part of the Victorian Government or is it a result of bureaucratic blockage? As the Commonwealth Government announced in 1976 that the way was then clear to amend the Agreement, when can we expect to bring this badly needed updating process to a conclusion? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It follows a number of questions I have asked already on this subject this session. Can the Minister indicate what effects  Mr Staley  's statement last Thursday concerning the establishment of a national satellite communications system will have on the proposed expansion of television services to Eyre Peninsula in South Australia? As the satellite is not expected to become operational before 1985, does this mean that the Government's already announced plans for extension, by terrestrial means, of the national broadcasting services in the Eyre Peninsula are now in jeopardy? If not, does the Minister expect that the time-table for terrestrial development will proceed as announced? 
-I present the fifth report of the Committee of Privileges relating to the imprisonment of a senator. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- Arrangements have been made for the consideration of this report to be placed on the Notice Paper as Government Business and for the report to be debated before the end of the present period of sittings. I will, therefore, be very brief in drawing the attention of the senate to the contents of the report. On 30 August 1979, the Senate referred to the Committee three matters relating to the arrest and imprisonment of  Senator Georges  earlier in that month. The most important of these matters was related to the failure of the appropriate authorities in Queensland formally to advise the  President  of the Senate of  Senator Georges'  imprisonment. The report indicates that it is the right of the Senate to be formally notified whenever any of its members are placed in custody by a court and that the Senate would be on firm ground in treating the failure to make such a notification as a contempt. The report suggests, however, that the Senate should take steps to secure the co-operation of the courts in the various jurisdictions of Australia in adopting the practice of notifying the Presiding Officers whenever a member of the Parliament is ordered to be held in custody, which practice has been firmly adhered to in Britain for many years. To this end, the report recommends that the Senate pass resolutions declaring that it is the right of the Senate to receive notification of the imprisonment of any of its members and that all courts should make formal notification to the  President  whenever such imprisonment occurs. The report further recommends that the Commonwealth and State Presiding Officers and Attorneys-General confer upon action to be taken to secure compliance with the practice of notification. 
The other matters referred to the Committee relate to the questions whether the imprisonment of  Senator Georges  was as a result of civil matters and whether the privilege of freedom from arrest in civil causes was infringed by his arrest and imprisonment. The report discusses the privilege of freedom from arrest and concludes that the matters leading to  Senator Georges  's imprisonment were not such as to attract that privilege. When the report is debated, I will speak further on the implications of the  Committee's  recommendations. I suggest that all honourable senators read the report before the debate ensues. 
Motion (by  Senator Durack)  agreed to: 
That consideration of the report be made an Order of the Day for the next day of sitting: 
The Minister representing the Minister for Transport will be aware that the standardised railway line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs is expected to be completed next year and that a crossing the border ceremony will be attended by the Minister for Transport this coming Saturday. Does the Minister realise the importance of standardising the line from Crystal Brook to Adelaide, particularly as this will assist the Australian National Railways in its corporate undertaking to reach profitability by 1989? Can the Minister say whether the Government has received a submission on the project? If so, when will it be in a position to make a firm decision on this proposal? 
-by leave- The Senate will recall that the Privileges Committee recently submitted its fifth report. Subsequently, I have had a message from  Senator Georges  indicating that he is confined to hospital and expressing a wish that consideration of this report take place upon his return. 1 just wish to inform the Senate that it is our intention to accede to that request. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources whether the Australian Government agrees with the insanity prevailing in Iran, whose government is at present holding 100 United States citizens prisoner and also holding the world to ransom with respect to oil supplies. If not, will the Australian Government move, through the United Nations, to apply trade sanctions to Iran? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science and the Environment and ask whether the Minister has read an article in the Press of 5 November reporting a claim by an eminent United States scientist  Dr Roy  that he has discovered a process to reverse phenomena that occur during nuclear fission chain reaction thus making radioactive waste harmless. The Minister may be aware that the article indicates that some other scientists have a certain amount of scepticism about this. I wondered whether the Minister's Department has noted the article and whether the claim is a valid one. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Development aware of an article which was published in the  Australian  earlier this month detailing the development of an alternative energy alcohol engine which has the capacity to be used in light aircraft and remote pilot controlled military aircraft? As this engine has now reached the marketing stage, can the Minister inform the Senate whether any interest in this development has been shown within government departments and whether this engine and /or fuel has been considered in principle as having a broader application in the transport area? 
I support what my colleague,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, has said. I have also been concerned by previous actions of the Executive; and in its attitude to drawing up this Bill Parliament seems to have been downgraded. The status of Parliament has suffered because of the regard, or indeed the disregard, that is being given to the  President  and to the  Speaker  in the other place. It seems to me to be traditional for the Executive to clash with the Parliament, but I believe it is also traditional that the Parliament is supreme and should be so. Therefore, I regard the treatment of the Presiding Officers in this Bill as reprehensible. I support the idea of a review with the object of reinstating the position of the Parliament and, in particular the Presiding Officers, as our titular head, to the status of a Cabinet Minister. 
I was also interested to read in the Tribunal 's report that a recommendation was made with respect to Chairmen of Committees. We must remember that the Tribunal is an independent body consisting of experts who have conducted inquiries into these matters and have come forward with what I regard to be a restrained recommendation with respect to allowances made to various office holders in the Parliament. It seems to me to be quite incredible that, although the Tribunal recommended that the chairmen of Senate committees be granted an allowance of $ 1 ,090, that has been ignored and $644 has been provided. Yet, the  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Public Works receives $ 1 ,073 additional salary plus $590 in the way of special allowance. In my view, the chairmen of standing committees of the Senate have responsibilities which are way and above those of backbenchers. Our expenditure is quite unusual. The position of chairmen of Senate standing committees ought to be regarded in the same way at least as that of the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee. I ask the Government to take cognisance of what  Senator Douglas  McClelland and I have had to say. I believe this view would be shared by 100 per cent of the back benchers of the Parliament and, if not all, perhaps most, of the Ministers. In my opinion the Parliament deserves proper recognition. 1 believe that this recommendation is flying in the face of our proper role in the Australian community. 
-by leave- I welcome the Government's action in this respect. The industry has suffered over the years as a result of successive government action, particularly when the Labor Government was in power. It imposed tremendous penalties on the industry. I believe that this measure will considerably help the industry. However, I issue a warning that it will have to be very careful about new plantings. I think that  Senator McLaren  mentioned the dangers of increasing irrigation areas in New South Wales particularly as South Australia depends so much on the River Murray for its water supply. It is also important that the industry, having regard to this concession, does not encourage an increase in plantings to any great extent. 
Also I have been concerned about discounting in the retail area of the industry. This presents problems which will also have to be watched by the industry. However, I welcome this statement. The Government has recognised the industry's problems to a degree and I support the action that it has taken. 
Debate adjourned. 
-I wish to refer to a matter which has been highlighted by the report of Estimates Committee A and which has been supported by  Senator Douglas  McClelland and by other honourable senators. It is beginning to sound a bit like a broken record. Recently honourable senators would have read and heard a lot about the need for Parliament to be reformed in a number of ways. Most of the matters which have been mentioned refer not to reform of the Parliament but to much needed reforms for the House of Representatives. There is one matter, however, to which the Senate should now turn its attention. This matter was raised by a committee of Government senators as long ago as 1965. Some honourable senators will recall that a separate appropriation for Parliament was proposed in 1965 by a committee of Government senators chaired by the then  Senator Cormack.  The silence of governments with regard to that proposal since then has been deafening. 

 Senator Murphy, as he then was, was the next to raise the matter when he pointed out that the Appropriation Acts, which presently embody the provision of expenditure for the Parliament, are Acts which in all other respects authorise the expenditure of moneys for the ordinary annual services of the Government. He told the Senate that the Parliament could never be considered an ordinary service of the Government. He stated: 
It may be ordinary; it may be annual; it may even be regarded as a service; but it is not a service of the Government. 
The Senate again had the matter before it when the Senate House Committee put down a report in 1972. That Committee was chaired by  Sir Magnus  Cormack, as  President  of the Senate, and  Senator Guilfoyle, Senator Laucke, Senator Milliner, Senator Murphy, Senator O  'Byrne and I were members.  Senator Douglas  McClelland referred to the report which was presented to the Senate at that time; I will not repeat what he said. The matter was referred to again in 1 974 by Senate Estimates Committee A. It was referred to again in May 1978 by Senate Estimates Committee A. It was referred to again in November 1978 by Senate Estimates Committee A. It has now been referred to again by Senate Estimates Committee A in its latest report. So honourable senators can see what I mean when I say that it is like a broken record. 
The Committee comments that it is very much aware of the efforts of the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives to achieve greater control over the expenditure and staffing of the Parliament. However, in view of the long history of inaction by governments towards these matters and, seemingly, the complete disregard which governments have had for the resolutions and opinions of the committees to which I have referred, it is now time for the Senate to look at the matter specifically by making a reference either to a select committee of the Senate or to the Senate House Committee. Honourable senators will be aware of the widespread feeling throughout this Parliament and the country that the performance of the Parliament in ensuring that governments are fully accountable for their actions has deteriorated. Many calls for reform have been made. Yet the most significant and effective reform in the history of the Parliament- the establishment of the Senate's legislative and general purpose standing committees and its Estimates committees- is becoming endangered. 
In recent years, specialisation has increased enormously, particularly with the advances made in science and technology. More and more, governments rely on advice from experts and the Parliament, for its part, needs financial and staffing flexibility and a capacity to inform itself. Yet what has been the response to the President's efforts to supplement the staff of the Senate? Because governments will not submit to the Governor-General in Council any staffing proposals of the  President  unless they first have the concurrence of the Public Service Board, the  President  is forced to go cap in hand to the Board to seek its advice. In Public Service circles it may be argued that the Board possesses the expertise and advice on appropriate staffing structures for Executive departments; it cannot be argued that the Board has the knowledge, expertise and understanding to advise the  President  on the staffing of the Senate. When the effects of those constraints upon the  President  are combined with an Executive-imposed staff ceiling (,n the Senate, the result is a most insidious form of Executive-domination of a parliament that has yet been devised. 
I give as an example the sorry history of the present attempt to provide Senate estimates committees with research assistants in response to directions by the Senate. The Public Service Board magnanimously agreed to the creation of five research assistant positions in response to directions by the Senate. The Public Service Board agreed to the creation of five research assistant positions to service the then five Estimates committees. It told the  President,  in effect, that to fill those positions he would have to make five other positions within the Department vacant because the Board could not agree to an increase in the departmental staff ceiling. As a result, as we all know, Senate Estimates committees have had to struggle on by the arrangement of procedural officers and standing committee officers doing two jobs. Considering the duties which have to be performed by the Senate committee staff, it is quite incredible that that staff is loaded with that duplication of work. 
Last May the  President  sought the creation of a number of positions at the middle range to alleviate the very severe work load imposed upon a number of areas of the Senate Department. The Board's response was that the  President  of the Senate should engage management consultants to undertake a total review of the departmental organisation. As a result, the intolerable strain placed upon certain officers of the Senate will continue until the consultancy review is finished in about the middle of next year. Assuming that the consultant is able to see the problems which exist with the staffing of the Senate, no doubt a further period of some months will elapse before any relief is achieved. 
As we are in the dying hours of this period of sittings, I will go no further on this subject, other than to outline the points which I propose to bring before the Senate in the autumn sittings of the Parliament. The first is the need for the Senate to set up a committee charged with the responsibility of considering the annual estimates for the Senate and for the  President  of the Senate then to submit those estimates to government as the Senate's requirements.  Senator Douglas  McClelland indicated that the House of Commons adopts that practice. I can see no reason for our not doing so. The second matter is whether those estimates should be submitted to government and then to the Parliament in the form of a parliamentary Appropriation Bill for consideration in the sittings prior to the commencement of the financial year to which they refer. The third point is whether government should make provision for parliamentary expenditure by means of a fixed percentage of an average of government expenditure for the preceding three years, or whether the current situation of estimating from year to year should remain. The next point is the need for an advance to the  President  of the Senate, similar to that which operates as the Advance to the Minister for Finance. 
A further point I propose to bring before the Senate is whether the committee appointed to examine the estimates for the Senate should be charged also with a responsibility to advise the  President  of the Senate on the creation and salary levels of positions for the Senate Department. That is another system which exists in the House of Commons under the Administration Act 1978 in the United Kingdom. The final point is whether the  President  of the Senate should and could be made an Executive Councillor to advise the Governor-General on staffing matters relating to the Senate. I am sure that those matters deserve serious consideration and, in the autumn session, I will raise them and probably will move a motion along the lines of the need to establish a select committee to look quickly at those issues. 
I am sure that honourable senators will agree that the situation which has been brought to our attention by Senate Estimates Committee A has been allowed to remain unresolved for far too long. If it be thought by any honourable senators that I am seeking carte blanche for the Senate, they are mistaken. No honourable senator concerned with the role of the Parliament would suggest that the Parliament should be provided  with unlimited resources. Just as there are restraints on the spending and staffing of government, so too should there be restraints on the spending and staffing of the Parliament. But for the Parliament properly to fulfil and maintain its function, it must make such arrangements as are necessary to achieve its proper constitutional relationship with the Executive, in practice as well as in theory. I finish my speech by reminding honourable senators that the Parliament is the supreme governing body of this country. The Executive is responsible to the Parliament, not vice versa. 
Is it the wish of the Committee that votes for the Department of Finance and the Advance to the Minister for Finance be taken together? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
The question is that the motion moved by  Senator Archer  on behalf of  Senator Maunsell  be agreed to. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs noted reports concerning the use of poisonous gas by Vietnam to exterminate Laos hill tribesmen and other groups opposing the communist regime? Having regard to the conventions of war, and more importantly to humanitarianism, what has the Australian Government done to protest against this practice? Will the Minister initiate action within the United Nations to demonstrate clearly the Australian Government's opposition to such inhumane acts? 
Order!  Senator McLaren,  I have shown you a fair amount of latitude. You have been allowed to wander a bit. I would suggest that you should return to the estimates we are dealing with and confine your remarks to a particular line of appropriation. 
The Opposition and the National Party moved a censure motion on  Mr Smith  over his statement that the CF and G was given loan guarantees because an election was pending. 
It is not only the Labor Party that has criticised this legislation; the National Party has also criticised the legislation. A few of its members sit in this chamber. Before we depart from estimates for the Department of Primary Industry are those honourable senators going to dissociate themselves from their Victorian colleagues and say that their colleagues are completely wrong in criticising  Mr Smith  because he let the cat out of the bag by saying that $9m of taxpayers' money was put at risk in order to buy a few votes in Victoria? The unfortunate part about it is that it was a successful exercise.  Mr Hamer  was returned with an absolute majority over the National Party and the Labor Party. I do not know whether there are any Independents. The Liberal party has a majority of one. But of course, we now see that  Mr Hamer  is disputing what  Mr Smith  said.  Mr Hamer  says that this is not right. Iam not going to go into that matter because it was explored by my colleague  Senator Primmer.  In future we will have to give closer attention to similar types of legislation brought into the Parliament as we now have on record a State Minister of Agriculture saying that this type of legislation was introduced only to buy the votes of the electors. 
I want now to put a question to  Senator Webster  which I asked the other day. I understand that he has an answer for me. The question I asked comes under the wool section of the Department of Primary Industry. I asked the question of him in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. The question was: 
Are Press reports that the Minister Tor Primary Industry,  Mr Nixon,  has repudiated a commitment given by his predecessor,  Mr Sinclair,  to establish a revolving wool market support fund in 1981 correct? If so, does the Government intend to suspend collection of the S per cent levy after 1 98 1? If this is not the Government's intention, what does it propose to do with the money now being raised by the levy? 
Senatror Webster's reply was: 
I have no knowledge of the statement or of the Press reports, I am unaware of what the situation is at this time. I will seek advice from the Minister for Primary Industry, whom I represent, and bring a written response . . . 
I understand that  Senator Webster  now has that reply. I will be interested to hear what it is. 
I should like to spend a moment or two referring to the Stuart Highway and another matter in respect to rail standardisation. I would also like to remind the Senate that the Estimates committee were formed to enable questions to be asked in that particular forum. What we are dealing with here tonight is an assessment of the various departments, and thus give senators an opportunity to make a short statement or a short speech on matters of special interest. Since we had our Estimates Committee meeting, the announcement to which  Senator Bishop  referred was made at Coober Pedy in the presence of myself,  Senator Bishop,  the member for Grey,  Mr Wallis,  and the member for the Northern Territory,  Mr Calder.  I was pleased to see that a way had been found under the existing national highway policy for the State and Federal governments to come to some arrangement to enable this highway to be constructed by at least 1987. 1 think  Senator Bishop  will recall that the Minister said that he was hoping, through persuasive eloquence, to convince the Treasury that perhaps more money should be made available for national highways in future, and if that should be the case the road may well be sealed before that time. I agree with what  Senator Bishop  said that a statement should be made to clear up this matter in the Senate. I hope that the Minister will have some information on that. 
The other matter to which I should like to refer very briefly is the urgency of continuing the standardised railway line from Adelaide to Crystal Brook in order to provide a standardised freight and passenger service from Alice Springs to Adelaide. The Minister will know that the Government has provided additional funds to enable the Tarcoola-Alice Springs line to be completed by October or November next year. It is very urgent for the Australian National Railways to be assured of funding next year to enable this very important link to Adelaide to be completed within the next four years. I understand that the ANR has presented a submission on this particular matter to the Government, and that the Government has had the submission for some time. Prior to that, a presentation of the submission was made by Government members of the Transport Committee and I understand that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  have been giving that consideration. I would just like to know what progress has been made with respect to the Crystal Brook-Adelaide standardised railway line program, and when a firm decision and a favourable announcement can be made. 
I wish to speak very briefly on this matter, I do not like doing it at this time of the morning, but it is very important that I do. We are still here because we are sucking up for the Parliament itself. As to  Senator Townley  's motion, Estimates Committee E reinforces and strongly supports the original proposition put forward by the Presiding Officers that the relocation of the staff who are currently occupying the Hotel Canberra should be to the West Block itself. The officers of that Department claim that it is an unsafe building. I have it on good authority that Section A of West Block is perfectly satisfactory and requires no refurbishing. It has adequate fire facilities and could accommodate well over 100 people. I suspect very strongly that the building is being set aside for occupation by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. If that is the case I find that very hard to reconcile. At the present time, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet is occupying a modern and adequate building; the Edmund Barton building. 
I support this motion. In 1977 the Tribunal suggested that members and senators should be provided with additional staff. Rather than go through this document I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave not granted. 
-If that is the attitude of honourable senators opposite I will not read it out because I sympathise with those people who are tired. Since that time in 1977 when accommodation became available, the Tribunal recognised the need for additional staff. The work load on back benchers has considerably increased. I believe also that the work load on the committees of the Parliament has significantly increased. We require an allocation of additional officers to those committees. It is important that the Government recognises the need to accommodate those people who are serving our needs, in particular the officers of the Parliament. It is necessary to relocate the committee secretariat closer to this building. Research officers who are desperately needed could also be accommodated. It will not take three years to refurbish West Block. We could occupy Section A possibly within a month or two. In order to reinforce the motion that has been moved by  Senator Townley  I move: 
At end of motion add- 
That the Government be requested to advise the Senate, during the first sitting week in 1980, of its attitude to the occupancy of West Block by the Parliament. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Motion, as amended, agreed to. 
-I table a number of submissions made to the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment during the inquiry into industrial research and development and seek leave to make a brief explanation for doing so. 
Leave granted. 
Since tabling my Committee's report on industrial research and development in Australia, there have been a number of requests from members of parliament and others for access to submissions made to the inquiry into industrial research and development. Many of these requests relate to submissions which were not examined in public and which accordingly were not published in  Hansard.  The Committee therefore wishes to make all submissions of a non-confidential nature which were not considered during public hearings available to interested parties. To facilitate this I am tabling the submissions in the Senate. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Does the Minister recall that a few weeks ago I asked my most recent question about the extension program for television on Eyre Peninsula in South Australia and requested an early announcement concerning when this program of construction would commence. Although a program concerning the siting of various installations has been announced, as yet no definite statement has been made regarding the timing of the commencement of the first installation. Is it a fact that this delay is due to the indecision of the engineering section of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board? In view of the undertaking by the Government that the program will be completed in three years, does the Minister agree that the residents of Eyre Pen- insula, unable to receive a reliable television ser-vice, could be excused for thinking that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is incompetent? As my patience is fast becoming exhausted in respect of the matter, will the Minister exert his influence on the Broadcasting Control Board so that the exact timing and commencement date of the construction program can be announced before the end of this year? 
-I think I said initially that this Bill is a step towards doing something about the rationalisation of the patent system in Australia. I indicate that I have expressed some doubts about the Bill and ask the Minister for Productivity to bear this in mind as the effects of this particular legislation become evident. During the Committee's inquiry the CSIRO put forward the view that many patents issued in Australia are bad. By this it was meant that the scope of monopoly created was too wide. In this connection it should be borne in mind that the costs of challenging a patent, once issued, are very considerable. There is no doubt that accession by Australia to the Patent Cooperation Treaty will help to rationalise the international patent system and reduce duplication. However, doubts remain as to who will derive the greatest benefit. Will it, for example, be of most benefit to countries producing many inventions, or will it be of no benefit? Will it be of disadvantage to countries such as Australia which have a small research and development effort? 
I think that the CSIRO and others have raised some extremely important questions which should make us think. We should not take it for granted that the philosophy underlying patents in Australia has been good because as this was established in 1904 I think that we ought to be questioning some of the basic assumptions upon which the system has developed. I support the Bill. I am not prepared to support the amendment at this stage but I certainly recognise the spirit in which  Senator Mulvihill  has put it forward. As the effects of this legislation emerge it could well be that we may have to deal with amendments later. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction aware of a study carried out two or three years ago in Darwin, by the architectural faculty of the University of Queensland, on the use of alternative energy sources in housing development? Is he also aware that a comprehensive report compiled following the study contained many constructive practical suggestions which could be followed by home builders in that area? Will the Minister confer with the Jabiluka Town Development Authority with the object of making this project a model alternative energy township which could be followed by other house building authorities? 
-As  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment I have an interest in this matter. I think that  Senator Cavanagh  will find that the Bill is a preliminary step to following up matters which the honourable senator discussed in his speech. In the course of the Committee's undertaking this inquiry and examining the whole position of industrial research and development it had quite a bit of evidence from patent attorneys and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation on the patent system in Australia. The Patent Cooperation Treaty recognises the universal requirement of patent validity and that this depends on whether the related invention is generally new. The basis on which the invention is judged is essentially the same in every country. Accordingly, when patent protection is sought in several countries, each patent office carries out very similar investigations. This duplication is eliminated through the establishment under the Treaty of a limited number of patent offices which undertake these investigations. 
Under the Treaty which we are considering six patent offices are designated as international searching authorities. Following accession to the Treaty the Australian Patent Office is to become both a searching and a preliminary examination authority. This is probably one of the reasons why this piece of legislation is being brought forward. The publication of details of patents granted is one of the principal factors in any patent system because this facilitates the avoidance of patent infringement and provides information to industry permitting exploitation of inventions on the expiry of the patent. There are approximately one million new patent documents generated world wide which cover about 400,000 different inventions. Procedures under the PCT will have to operate cheaply, efficiently and quickly to deal with these 400,000 inventions. If this is achieved the Treaty could provide a useful source of technical knowledge for Australia. 
International patent information- INPADOC, I think it is commonly known as- is currently available in Australia, but access to this is very expensive and is not easy, in some instances. The Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  has reminded me that the Patent Office has acquired the systems to facilitate access to INPADOC and that in applying those systems under the Treaty, the Patent Office will develop improved access techniques. 
I do not want to get into a protracted argument. I now want to incorporate in  Hansard  letters from me, as the Committee  Chairman,  and replies from the Minister for Productivity on the subject. Perhaps those letters will provide  Senator Cavanagh  with further information and explain our concern in the matter. 
Leave granted. 

 The letters read as follows- 13 September 1979 
Telex AA62326 
The  Hon.  Ian Macphee, M.P., Minister for Productivity, Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 
Dear Minister, 
Patents Amendment ( PCT) Act 1 979 
Section S.3 of my Committee's recent report on Industrial Research and Development in Australia discusses patents. From evidence presented to the inquiry, the Committee came to the conclusion that the alleged benefits of Australia's patent system are open to serious question. It went on to say that a strong case can be made as far as international treaties will allow, for an examination of the Australian patent system with a view to its realignment with national interest. There are quite good reasons for believing that accession by Australia to the Patents Co-operation Treaty (PCT) may well be contrary to the national interest. 
Australia is a net importer of technology and is likely to continue to be so for many years. Of approximately 1 1,000 patent applications filed in Australia each year, only 1,000 are of Australian origin whilst the remaining 10,000 originate overseas. Each year many thousands of inventions are developed, the owners of which do not consider it worthwhile to seek protection in Australia. These inventions may accordingly be used by Australians without payment of overseas royalty. Through the Australian Patent Information Service (APIS), Australians can obtain information on overseas inventions. In particular, the APIS enables Australians to determine which inventions are not protected by an Australian patent. Please note, however, that my Committee recommended that access to patent information should be improved. 
At present the method of obtaining an Australian patent is such that Australians are advantaged compared with overseas applicants. Even so, 90 per cent of Australian patents are granted to foreigners. Australian accession to the PCT will almost certainly reverse this situation with foreign applicants being advantaged vis-a-vis Australians. Therefore the probable result of Australian accession to PCT is a greatly increased number of Australian patents granted to overseas applicants. In consequence fewer inventions will be freely available for use by Australians. 
One could argue in favour of the Bill that Australian accession to the PCT will make it easier for Australians to obtain foreign patents. However, out of 1,000 individuals and firms which file Australian patent applications in any year, only about 300 apply for foreign patents. This small number would not appear to outweigh the advantages of free access to overseas patent information. 
It is argued that Australian accession to the PCT will assist in the transfer of technology to this country. This is a most dubious proposition. Improved access to overseas patent information is probably of much greater assistance. 
In consequence of the above I believe that further careful consideration of the whole matter is warranted before the Bill introduced on 28 August becomes law. In your second reading speech you say that "without exception Australian industry has appreciated the benefits to be obtained from participation in the Treaty and expressed unqualified support for Australian accession". I regret that my Committee would find it difficult to agree that this statement truly reflected the considered views of all representatives of industry. May I therefore, with the greatest respect, urge you before proceeding further with this Bill, to consider most carefully section S.3 of my Committee's report on Industrial Research and Development in Australia. In particular, may I again draw your attention to page 139 where we say "Australia's present patent system may well be acting against the country's best interests. Once again absence of any clear policy or plan for national industrial development makes it very difficult to know where our best interests may lie. Even so, a review of our patent system in the light of the situation with respect to IR&amp;D is clearly indicated. The Committee accordingly recommends that the Minister for Productivity undertake an examination of both the national and international relevance of present patent laws and agreements to Australian IR&amp;D and the importation of technology". 
Action on this recommendation should be completed and the situation clearly understood before seriously contemplating Australian accession to the PCT. 
Yours sincerely, 
(D. S. JESSOP) CHAIRMAN 
Minister for Productivity Parliament House Canberra, A.C.T.2600 5 October 1979 

 Senator D. S. Jessop,  Chairman, 
Australian Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T.2600 
Dear  Senator, 
Your letter of 13 September 1979, drawing my attention to your Committee's Report on Industrial Research and Development in Australia and requesting deferment of Australian accession to the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) until the completion of the review of the patent system recommended in the Report, raises a number of extremely important issues. In view of the Committee's conclusions on the effects of the patent system, I appreciate your concern with the question of Australian accession to the PCT. I have therefore taken the opportunity to reply to your letter in some detail. 
I would point out that I gave careful consideration to the submissions critical of the Australian patent system which were presented to your Committee and the conclusions which it reached in the light of these submissions before introducing the Bill. In my view, although those submissions have a superficial plausibility, they reflect an approach to the patent system which is inherently unsound. For that reason, I made a particular point in my Second Reading Speech of explaining in detail the significance of Australian accession to the PCT in relation to the operation of the patent system and the benefits to Australian industry from participation in the operation of the Treaty. I believe that speech presents a more objective and accurate evaluation of the Australian patent system than that submitted to your Committee and I hope therefore that your Committee will give careful consideration before it adopts a concluded approach to the Bill. 
Before discussing the particular issues referred to in your letter, I would express my concern with your remark that your Committee would find it difficult to accept that the statement in my speech that "without exception Australian industry has appreciated the benefits to be obtained from participation in the Treaty and expressed unqualified support for Australian accession" reflected the considered views of all representatives of industry. I trust that remark reflects an unawareness of the investigations conducted prior to the introduction of the Bill rather than a commitment to a preconceived assessment of its impact. 
The fact of the matter is that the question of Australian accession to the PCT was widely publicised amongst interested parties and the attitude of industry sought well before accession was authorised by Cabinet. Responses were received from organisations widely representative of various sectors of Australian industry, including the Confederation of Australian Industry, Australian Manufacturers' Patent, Industrial Designs, Copyright and Trade Mark Association, the Agricultural and Veterinary Chemicals Association of Australia and the Australian Industrial Research Group, as well as individual Australian companies, both large and small, including BHP, AWA, APM Ltd, Simpson Pope Ltd and Alcan Australia Ltd. Although some non-industry bodies opposed accession, every response from industry, without exception, expressed unqualified support for early Australian accession. As the essential function of the patent system is to assist Australian industry and as accession to the PCT is intended to improve the operation of that system, I think it is essential that, if your Committee is to form a considered view of the Bill, it should be clearly aware of that response by industry. 
As you correctly state in your letter, approximately 90 per cent of the 1 1,000 Australian patents granted annually in Australia, are granted to overseas patentees, notwithstanding that the present diversity of patent laws significantly advantages Australian applicants. Moreover, despite the high proportion of overseas applicants for Australian patents, numerically such applicants constitute only a small proportion of the applicants for patents in other countries. As a result, a large number of inventions, the subject of overseas patents, are freely available to Australian industry though publication of overseas patent documents in Australia. 
One objective of the PCT is to rationalise patent application procedures, thereby facilitating foreign participation. Australian accession will therefore assist Australian inventors in obtaining foreign patents and, conversely, correspondingly assist foreign inventors in obtaining Australian patents. You acknowledge in your letter the benefits for the present relatively small number of Australian inventors in obtaining overseas protection but believe that increased foreign participation in the Australian patent system as a result of the PCT will disadvantage Australian industry by reducing the present free access to overseas inventions. It follows from that view that the foreign participation disadvantages Australian industry. I consider such view to be incorrect. 
As I explained more fully in my Second Reading Speech, the essential basis of a patent system is to assist indigenous industrial development by enabling local industry to exploit new technological developments, initially, by the provision of an economic environment within which to create a commercial market by excluding competition through the grant of a patent and, subsequently, by the disclosure of the necessary information enabling industry generally to fully utilise those developments on the expiry of the patent. 
When that basic fact is appreciated, it is clear that the nationality of a patentee is totally irrelevant to the operation of a patent system. Moreover, the increased utilisation of the patent system through the inclusion of overseas inventions contributes significantly to the effectiveness of the system. It is of course true that inadequate exploitation of patented technology can inhibit technological development. Such failure, however, is an abuse of a patent monopoly for which the Patents Act provides remedies by the grant of compulsory licences to interested parties or, in appropriate circumstances, by the revocation of the patent. 
It is extremely difficult to quantify the precise extent to which a patent system contributes to innovation or to identify the specific casual relationships between patents and national development. The fact is, however, that those countries with the most extensively utilised patent systems have the greatest degree of industrial development and in all such countries an increasing utilisation of their patent system has accompanied their increasing level of development. Almost without exception, in every one of those countries, foreign participation constitutes a major source of the patents granted each year. 
Overseas inventions constitute the major source of new technology and I believe that the increased utilisation of the Australian patent system by the inclusion of those inventions will significantly facilitate the transfer of overseas developed technology to this country. As I stated, I believe the provision of that assistance is a major function of the patent system and the failure to exploit it seriously diminishes the effectiveness of the patent system. 
Your Committee's conclusion that Australia's present patent system may well be acting against the country's best interests, raises a broader issue than the effects of foreign participation since it implies that the grant of patents generally may inhibit industrial development. So far as I am aware, there is no evidence to support that contention and the parallel development of patent activity and industrialisation strongly suggests otherwise. Your Committee may be interested to know that following a recent Court decision, patent protection in Italy will be extended to pharmaceuticals. In a paper in this subject, the Director of the Italian Patent Office noted that the absence of patent protection had condemned the Italian pharmaceutical industry to trail along behind foreign firms by simply copying their products without making any serious research effort. According to the Director, the most qualified Italian firms have been asking for many years for the patent system to be extended to pharmaceutical products and that the provision of such protection will stimulate research. 
Although I cannot agree with your Committee's conclusions on the questionable value of the Australian patent system and the desirability of deferring accession to the PCT, its recommendation for a review of the Australian patent sysetm is well taken. Overseas patent systems, as evidenced by the European Patent Convention and the Community Patent Convention, have been undergoing major development. Moreover, developing countries have developed an intense interest in exploiting patents as a means of accelerating technology transfer to those countries, as evidenced by their initiative in revising the major international industrial property agreement ( the Paris Convention ). I believe those developments indicate that the Australian patent system contains considerable potential for improvement as a mechanism for increasing industrial development and encouraging industrial research and development by Australian companies. 
In the circumstances, I consider that there are no valid grounds for deferring Australian accession to the PCT and considerable benefits to be gained by early accession. 
Although your letter indicates that your Committee presently holds an opposite view on that question, I trust that the explanation provided in this somewhat lengthy reply and in my Second Reading Speech will convince both you and the members of your Committee of the correctness of my point of view. 
Notwithstanding any divergence of views, I believe your Committee's concern with the patent system to be wholly beneficial in as much as the significance of the patent system in fostering technological development in Australia has been widely unappreciated and its role largely ignored. 
Yours sincerely, 
Ian Macphee 18 October 1979 
Telex AA62326 
The  Hon.  Ian Macphee, M.P., Minister for Productivity, Parliament House, Canberra, ACT 2600 
Dear Minister, 
Patents Amendment (PCT) Act 1979 
Thank you for your letter of 5 October 1979 concerning the Patents Amendment (PCT) Act 1979. Your letter was considered at a meeting of my Committee members on 17 October 1979 at which appreciation was expressed for the detailed care you have given to responding to their apprehension that accession to the Patent Co-operation Treaty (PCT) may not be in the best national interest. 
I must say at once that the Committee has at no time arrived at, nor expressed, a settled opinion for or against the Act, rather it has heard arguments of sufficient weight to give pause for further examination and reflection before making a firm commitment. Your letter has in large measure allayed the doubts felt by the committee members. They feel that if their comments in the report on 'Industrial Research and Development in Australia' and my letter of 13 September 1979 have assisted in stimulating a review of the patents system, then one of their major objectives has been attained. 
May I suggest however, that review of the significance and application of the patent system in Australian technological development should, like development itself, be an ongoing process. It forms an important element in the formulation of national policies for science and technology. 
In this connection I feel that much more yet needs to be done to ensure that Australians are provided with quick, easy and cheap access to information on overseas patents. May I therefore redraw your attention to recommendation 41 of the report on 'Industrial Research and Development in Australia'. This proposes that you 'examine the situation with respect to searches of overseas patents with a view of establishing a system to improve access to INPADOC information'. 
If access to overseas patent information could be made really easy for Australians, then any remaining unease about the PCT would be almost completely dispelled. I think the benefits improved access could bring to Australian industry are well and widely appreciated. 
Yours sincerely, 
S. JESSOP Chairman 
Minister for Productivity Parliament House Canberra, ACT 2600 31 October 1979 

 Senator D. S. Jessop 
Chairman Australian Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment Parliament House Canberra, ACT 2600 
Dear  Senator Jessop 
Your letter of 1 8 October indicating your Committee 's response to my previous reply concerning the Patents Amendment (PCT) Bill is greatly appreciated. As I explained in that reply, I believe that, in enabling early Australian participation in the PCT, the Bill significantly increases the potential of the Australian patent system for assisting technological development in Australia. 
As you know, the Bill is one of a number of recent changes in the patents legislation introducing major developments in the Australian patent system. It is therefore appropriate that a review of the patents system be initiated in order to evaluate the collective impact of the various individual changes. The recommendation of your Committee that a comprehensive review of the patent system be undertaken is therefore particularly timely. 
I would point out that the review I have proposed will be the first involving an evaluation of the Australian patent system as a mechanism for technological development. As such, it will involve extended consideration of the practical effects of the system on Australian industry. Approximately $7m is invested annually in official fees in obtaining and maintaining patent protection. The patent system is therefore clearly one of the major elements of a national policy for technology, notwithstanding that its significance in this respect is not yet widely appreciated. 
A review of the kind I envisage will inevitably disclose specific areas requiring investigation and thus act as a catalyst in generating further inquiry. Accordingly, I see the review as essentially an ongoing process as you suggest. 
Finally, in re-directing my attention to recommendation 41 in your Committee's report on Industrial Research and Development in Australia you note the need for much more to be done to ensure that Australians are provided with quick, easy and cheap access to information on overseas patents. It is apparently not fully appreciated that the provision of efficient access in Australia to foreign patent documents was one of the considerations for Australian accession to the PCT. In negotiating early Australian participation in the Treaty, the Australian Patent Office obtained authorisation to act as an International Searching Authority and International Preliminary Examining Authority under the Treaty. As a Searching Authority, the Patent Office is required to provide for Australian applicants technical information derived from the patent documents of all major countries as well as certain technical periodical literature. To fulfil that commitment, the Patent Office has acquired a number of INPADOC systems providing access to international patent documentation and in using those systems under the PCT the Office will be continually developing improved access techniques. Suitable techniques are currently under development. The expertise acquired from operating as a Searching Authority and the techniques developed will be available for exploitation by other Australian users. 
The sheer volume of current documentation makes the problem of providing effective access extremely complex. The value of the rationalisation obtained through international co-operation, as is provided by the PCT, may be better appreciated when it is realised that the current difficulties in obtaining access to foreign patent documents originally arose from the failure of patent offices to accept a collectively uniform system in classifying patent documents and opt instead for individually different national systems. The futility of that approach becomes even more obvious when it is realised that each patent office was classifying patent documents for the same purpose. 
Information retrieval from international patent documents is an essential element of the PCT and for that purpose a single classification has been adopted for PCT applications. The use of a single access system will therefore significantly improve access to foreign patent documents. The Treaty makes a further important contribution in simplifying access by reducing the present duplication of documents where protection is sought in several countries. It is also specifically designed to increase the use of English in foreign patent documents. Increased utilisation of the PCT will therefore materially assist in simplifying access to information in foreign patent documents in Australia. 
I trust the above comments will confirm that your Committee 's recommendation in respect of providing improved access to foreign patent documents has not been disregarded. I also believe that the present Bill is not irrelevant to that recommendation and that accession to the PCT will itself contribute to the provision of improved access systems available for general utilisation in Australia. 
Yours sincerely 
IAN MACPHEE 
Very briefly, I agree with what the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  has said. He has indicated that the Government has had regard to the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment. This is borne out by the fact that the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee),  following a letter from me as  Chairman  of the Committee registering some doubts about the legislation, held the legislation up for about a month until he was able to consider further correspondence and we were able to give an opinion on his reply. I believe that that is quite significant. I totally support the Senate standing committee system. An important point which honourable senators opposite should note is that the Government was prepared to hold back its legislation until such time as our questions were answered. I believe the Government is acting in good faith. If in the future we believe that amendments are necessary the Government will certainly consider it. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
1 ) Has the suggestion in the Report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration paragraph 8-2-45, that the Public Service Board explore the possibilities of restoring benefit entitlements to officers with more than three years' initial service who return to Commonwealth employment, been acted upon; if so, what decision has been reached with respect to restoration of: (a) seniority; (b) furlough; (c) sick leave benefits; and (d) superannuation rights. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
1 ) What is the present total allowable catch of fish within the Australian fishing zone, by species, for (a) Australia; (b) Japan; and (c) other countries, under the agreement on fisheries between the Government of Australia and the Government of Japan; Article III I (A) and 1 (B). 
What is the present total allowable catch within the Australian fishing zone 'taking into account the best available scientific evidence', of 'all species of tuna and bill-fish together with all other species of finfish including oceanic sharks', under the subsidiary agreement between the Government of Australia and the Government of Japan concerning Japanese tuna long-line fishing, Article II. 
What proportion of the total allowable catch referred to in part (2) above is expected to be taken by licensed Japanese vessels, and what is its expected value. 
What proportion of the total allowable catch is allocated to the Australian fishing industry. 
What proportion of the value of the catch allocated to Japan does the licence fee of $1,400,000 under Article I of the subsidiary agreement represent. 
Is the licence fee expected to be revised at the end of the agreement's first year. 
Which marine science institutes were consulted in drawing up the agreement on fisheries between the Government of Australia and the Government of Japan; and which elements of the Australian fishing industry were consulted before the agreement was signed. 
