 I rise to say but a few words on this question of shipping to and from Tasmania. As all honourable senators know, transport is an indispensable need. The success of trade and commerce and. indeed, the stability of the economy of any State or country depend on transport. This applies particularly in countries such as ours which is a continent, and in Tasmania which is an island State. Other forms of transport than shipping from Tasmania to the mainland are not available to any great extent and therefore I sincerely sympathise with the Tasmanian people, particularly those engaged in primary production and in trade and commerce in their complaint regarding the inadequacy of shipping space and the irregularity of schedules. That occurs to me to be more important than the omission of Tasmania from the overseas container service. I was privileged to be a member on the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling' Cargoes which inquired into the introduction of the containerisation system of transport of cargo. When the Committee commenced to operate it found that very few people had given any consideration to adjusting themselves to the introduction of this modern method of transport. Even our banks, our insurance companies, our shipping companies, our government and semigovernment bodies had given very little consideration, if any, to what would be required to meet the position when containerisation was introduced. 
It is true as  Senator Marriott  said a few moments ago that there had been a postponement of activity. No thought had been given, for instance, to a substitute for a bill of lading. Insurance companies did not know just what the position would be. The banks could not tell the Committee very much. The Committee from time to time examined representatives of all these organisations. The Australian Meat Board did not know anything. The wool people had not gone to the trouble of sending a sample of wool in a container to the British manufacturers to  S2e  whether containerisation would reduce or destroy the real value of the wool. After all, the manufacturer in Britain was the man who had to be satisfied with the form of transport to be. used for this densely packed commodity. That was  just how the position stood. The Committee did an excellent job of work in arousing these people from their lethargy and causing them lo speed up and do something. 

 Senator Lillico of Tasmania was on that Committee with me. 1 interjected during the course of his speech to say that he was an excellent member of that Committee. No human could have done more on that Committee in the interests of the State he was representing than  Senator Lillico. His  advocacy for an adequate and regular shipping service was continuous. He was so insistent, in fact, that we used to have a little fun with him about the ports of Tasmania, In  Tasmania there are numerous ports. Whilst I might agree with  Senator Marriott  that it would be hard to visualise the State with one port only, I could not visualise shipping companies being prepared to serve all Tasmanian ports. There would have to be some compromise. 1 sympathise with Tasmania in its plight, but I agree with supporters of the Government that this is not entirely the responsibility of government. A Government in Australia or in any democracy, cannot take shipping companies or private enterprises by the scruff of the neck and say: "You establish here. You carry out this function and that function.' Nor can it say to the shipping company: You enter that port at regular intervals. You will use this port.' 
In the State of Queensland which I represent the shipping companies refused to go into some ports because the cost was too great. The time it took to turn a ship was unbearable. The companies just would not go in. 
Yes, it went on. Bowen is a place where there was a lot of industrial trouble for no real reason at all. lt lost the bulk loading facilities for sugar. Bowen is a very good port and it has a very fine harbour. The decision on the location of facilities such as sugar bulk loading equipment was based to a great extent on the efficiency of particular ports. At that time I was Premier of Queensland and I told the waterside workers that they had no one but themselves to blame. Their pin-pricking tactics and their repeated stoppages for no good reason at all had driven the ships away. The whole economy of the State was being jeopardised and adversely affected because of the action of the waterside workers. 
A lot of our troubles have been brought on by ourselves. When I say 'ourselves' I mean by the people of the country itself. A shipping company has a lot of money invested in a shipping line and it expects service. This containerisation system of cargo has been introduced at enormous expense to increase efficiency, expedite loading, expedite the turnround of ships, and overcome pilfering and pillaging of cargo. 
And to get something out of it. To go into too many ports in one State increases costs. I think Brisbane is the only container port in Queensland. The others are feeders. The goods are brought to Brisbane. That is understandable. But do not let us over emphasise that all the advantages and benefits of containerisation make it the only worthwhile system of handling cargo. The unit system and the rollon roll-off system have their advantages and are very suitable, particularly if we can continue to have regular visits by ships to carry our produce, timber or whatever it may be. Indeed that kind of shipping - the alternative to containerisation - is probably more suitable for certain commodities than is the container system. Apples can be loaded as a bulk commodity, not necessarily cased. The unit type of shipping is more suitable for timber than is the container type. That is why I say that paragraph (b) of the motion concerns me more than does paragraph (a). If we get a form of shipping which meets our requirements that is the crux of the whole matter. lt is to be regretted that shipping space is inadequate and that there is an irregularity of schedules. Of course the Government can be expected to bring influence to bear on shipping companies. No doubt members of the coalition parties and others have requested the Government to ask shipping companies to improve the service to Tasmania. Beyond that .1 cannot see, unless someone can inform me, just how much more the Government can do without confiscating a shipping line or taking some such drastic step. I feel confident that if the Government puts it up to the  shipping companies to pull up their socks, as it were, and do a bit better than they are doing for the producers and manufacturers of Tasmania, we may get some favourable results. I hope we do. 
I believe that if the Senate had not provided an opportunity to discuss the controversial Vietnam Moratorium Campaign we would have failed in our duty to the people of Australia. For that reason 1 commend  Senator Greenwood  for moving the urgency motion from which this discussion has emanated. I also congratulate him on the excellent presentation of his case against the Moratorium. I have listened very attentively to the discussion which has taken place. I had thought that at least in the interests of the people of Australia honourable senators on my right - members of the Australian Labor Party, the official Opposition - would have been truthful enough and straight enough to tell the people the facts of the Vietnam war. All the speeches today have been coloured against the United States and Australian involvement and against the South Vietnamese. Surely the people are entitled to hear the truth of this. 
It is pretty evident to me that many decent people have been attracted to this Campaign only because of their desire for peace throughout the world. They have been told that all the faults lie on the side of America which is in Vietnam to defend the helpless South Vietnamese against the Communist aggression from he North. Why did the Opposition not give us a brief history of the Geneva Conference in 1954 which provided for the division of Vietnam and also for the neutrality of Laos and Cambodia? One would think from what has been said here today and from what we read in some of the Press that America invaded Cambodia. No Opposition senator has told the truth in that respect. Opposition senators do not mention that Cambodia has been invaded for some considerable time by the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong. Why are the North Vietnamese and Vietcong in Cambodia? They are there to break the neutrality of that country, to make a springboard of that country for them to enter South Vietnam. I think we have reason to be disappointed with the Opposition because of its one-eyed attitude in this connection. As the 'Courier Mail' said on Thursday, 30th April, referring to the Moratorium: 
The campaign organisers express outraged concern that Australia, America and some Asian nations arc in South Vietnam aiding the South Vietnamese. Yet the same organisers appear blithely unconcerned that North Vietnamese are invading Cambodia. 
The article continued: 
Perhaps an answer to the silence on Cambodia lies in the origins of the campaign. Last year, the Congress of Communist Youth in East Berlin called for an international move to obtain what it termed a 'Vietnam Moratorium'. Dictionaries define a moratorium as the suspension, for a time, of payment of a debt. But now it seems to have acquired the meaning of 'a suspension of fighting'. Reasonable enough, perhaps. 
Then in the 'Canberra Times'  this  morning, in an excelient article, we read: 
The sponsors of the moratorium can fairly be accused of using  in  their promotion a technique made famous by  some  manipulators of public opinion: coupling together for the approval of a not-too-discerning public  a  number of propositions of unequal plausibility in the hope that the less acceptable propositions will be carried along with those to which no  one  can reasonably object. 
Vietnam is presented in much of the literature put out by the moratorium campaign as a simple issue in black and white. The Americans and their allies are the villains; the Communists apparently are the heroes. All the evil is on one side; no mention is made of the guilt of the other. The war is atrocious only when it is waged by the Western participants. The fact that North Vietnam invaded South Vietnam. Laos, and  Cambodia  is overlooked. The fact that the Americans would not have entered Cambodia if the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong had not already done so long before is forgotten. The alleged atrocities committed by the Western combatants are highlighted; the equally unforgiveable crimes committed by the other side, notably at Hue, are not mentioned. In the same vein, the only ones who can do anything about ending the war are the Americans and their allies: it  does  not matter if all the compromise is on one side only. 
That is a very good statement and I have read it for the particular reason of informing the Australian people of just what the position is. As I have said, no doubt there are some people involved in the Vietnam Moratorium who are sincere people of goodwill. They have the interests of South East Asia and Australia at heart. But the truth is that the Moratorium Campaign is the most blatant piece of lawlessness, bordering on anarchy, that we have witnessed in Australia for a very long time, if ever before. The hard core who are associated with the Campaign are the same people who supported the waterside workers in their refusal to load the 'Japarit' which was to carry supplies and even Christmas cheer for our troops in Vietnam. These people who are organising this Moratorium are the same people who cheered on the waterside workers on that occasion. They are the same people who supported a resolution at a meeting of industrial unions in Melbourne only a few months ago inciting Australian troops to mutiny, to lay down their arms to Communist forces. 
Since the Moratorium Campaign was conceived and organised in December there have been two developments which must invalidate it for all peace loving Australians. We call on the sincere people involved in the Moratorium Campaign to reconsider their position in the light of these events. It might have been possible until recently to believe sincerely that the North Vietnamese had no ambitions beyond gaining control of South Vietnam. Now, however, there are more than 100,000 North Vietnamese troops in Laos and Cambodia engaged in aggression against these countries. No honest person can any longer maintain that the Vietnam war is a civil war and is the concern of South Vietnam only. It is obviously of importance to the whole of South East Asia, and Australia, living on the fringe of South East Asia, cannot survive with aggressive militarists like North Vietnam on the loose. 
As 1 was saying when I was rudely interrupted, as a matter of selfinterest, as well as to preserve the principle of maintaining the rights of small nations, Australia must do everything in its power to contain this aggression. Surely, now that the North Vietnamese have gone beyond South Vietnam, the people of goodwill who have become involved in the Moratorium Campaign must see the light. 
The second development to which 1 have referred is the announcement of big withdrawals of troops by the American and Australian Governments.  President  Nixon's statement that .150,000 American troops will be withdrawn is surely conclusive evidence of where responsibility for the continuation of the war lies. What have North Vietnam or the Vietcong done towards bringing about peace in that distressed country? They have done absolutely nothing. They have had the support of the pro-communists in America and in Australia, and the promise of a withdrawal of troops, American and Australian, has only encouraged them further in their aggression against innocent people and small nations. Regardless of whether we like it or not the Americans are preparing to leave the non-Communist people of South East Asia to look after themselves. The Americans will accelerate their withdrawal from South Vietnam if the North Vietnamese can be induced to show restraint. 
If  Dr J.  F. Cairns,  Senator Keeffe, Senator O'Byrne  and the other people who are supporting the Moratorium Campaign are so desirous of peace in Vietnam and the rest of the world, they should go to Hanoi and appeal to their political blood brothers in Hanoi to lay down their arms. North Vietnam is the aggressor in this conflict. Instead of holding Moratorium Campaigns in Australia they should go to Hanoi and parade there. Somewhere in the vicinity of 1 million people have left North Vietnam and gone to South Vietnam to avoid the Communist governments in North Vietnam. Why have they done so? I visited the area recently and I know that if there is a precipitate in the withdrawal of troops, particularly in the light of recent events in Cambodia, there will be a great massacre of innocent people. I repeat that if there is an early withdrawal of troops, American or Australian, and the people of South Vietnam are left to the mercy of the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese Communists, there will be a greater massacre of people than was seen in recent times in Biafra. Who wants a repetition of that sort of thing? 1 have given the Opposition a good recipe for peace and it is up to the Opposition to follow it. Supporters of the Opposition should go to Hanoi and appeal for peace because they have a lot of friends over there. The Australian Labor Party is more involved in the organisation and sponsorship' of the Moratorium Campaign than many of its supporters like to admit. 
Not all supporters of the Australian Labor Party, because a lot of the unionists have refused to be. associated with, the Moratorium Campaign. Whatever the outcome of the Moratorium Campaign those who take part in it will not be apologising for their actions. As  Senator Cavanagh  said the other day, they will not be apologising for their participation. They are proud to tell the people of Australia that they have no regard for the laws of this country, which is very important. 

 Senator DAVIDSON (South Australia) [8.33J - The Premier of South Australia used the most appropriate expression to describe the topical subject we are debating at present when he called it pollution. I know a bit about pollution as 1 have been concerned with the subject for quite awhile. I agree with the Premier that the Vietnam Campaign is pollution of the Parliament of South Australia, pollution of the community and, as he said himself, pollution of the environment. This is how he refers to the people who are running this lawless undertaking, which is what the Moratorium Campaign amounts to. This is how he refers to the paraphernalia which the people who are running the Moratorium Campaign plastered all over North Terrace in Adelaide the other day. The expression is a good one. It is very appropriate. 
I have been interested in what the Opposition has said in relation to this matter of urgency. I again draw attention to the terms, lt is stated in the first instance that the Moratorium is designed to weaken the resolution of the Australian people; secondly, that it is designed to give moral support to North Vietnam; thirdly, that it is designed to promote disorder; and, fourthly, that it is designed to cause unwarranted inconvenience to Australian citizens. Has the Opposition said anything to offset those allegations? It has not said a word. Have we heard anything tonight about the details of the Moratorium? We have not had a great deal of information. We have had a peculiar exercise in escapism from the real issue before the Senate today.  Senator Greenwood  has done well in putting a case for the law abiding Australian community. I believe that he has done so at a singularly appropriate time because at present and for some time in the past there has been within the Australian community an area of contentment because of full employment and the various opportunities occasioned by the high standard of living. As a result a great number of our people are tending to become inward looking and, I regret to say, isolationists. We cannot afford to have any isolationist tendencies at such a time in world history.  Senator Greenwood  has done well to alert the Parliament to the obligations it has to carry out as a parliament which will in turn alert the people of Australia to the particular situation which now exists. 
I put it on the line that the Opposition's argument has failed and, what is more, it has failed lamentably. Every evil word which could be mustered up has been hurled at our allies - the United States of America and the United Kingdom - as well as ourselves. Not a word has been said in support of the civil aid programme which has been going on throughout South East Asia. Not a word has been said in regard to the medical teams and the other people who, in the name of Australia, have been going into this trouble torn area and rendering a tremendous amount of assistance in not only restoring the damage which has been occasioned by Communist invasions but also establishing a pattern for development in the future. 
A great deal has been said about the Moratorium being a peaceful demonstration. Statements attributed to  Senator Keeffe  have appeared in the Press urging those people taking part in the Moratorium to be peaceful, not to incite violence and not to do anything which would disturb the order of the community. 1 draw your attention,  Mr President,  to the speech which  Senator Keeffe  delivered tonight. Do you think that there was anything peaceful about it?  His  speech tonight was one of the most violent and violence inciting utterances - full of hatred and bitterness - which I have ever heard. How does he expect the thousands of people he thinks will be his followers in the next few days to resist resort to violence when for 15 minutes tonight he advocated violence in one sentence after another. 
At all points the Moratorium is designed to introduce a threatening, menacing situation. With every move of the Moratorium there will be elements which will be inconsiderate and deliberately antagonistic to the community at large. Past demonstrations in this country certainly give the community no comfort whatsoever in regard to what might happen during this one. In his Press statements  Senator Keeffe  even called upon the churches to come along and see if they can persuade the people involved not to engage in violence. I draw the attention of the Australian community to the violence which he has infused into his whole argument tonight. It is a violence which we will not forget. 
I disagree with the proclamation of  Dr J.  F. Cairns that the people involved in the Moratorium have the right to use the streets for this sort of thing in just the same way as others use them for their social, commercial or educational pursuits. People engaged in the kind of activities which have been described in the Press as being involved in the Moratorium Campaign have no right to obstruct people going about their lawful occupations. They do not have the right to sit at cross roads and prevent traffic moving through and they do not have the right to sit in front of traffic and create havoc. There has been no denial that these things will take place. There has been no denial of the article in the 'Herald' of yesterday, I think it was, in which plans are set out for throwing banners across the windscreens of cars that dare to move into certain parts of Melbourne. There has been no denial of the arrangements that have been made for the use of whistles, noisy devices and all the other kinds of things to create confusion. There has been every indication from the members of the Opposition that they feel that professors, teachers, industrialists and other people should leave their universities, schools and places of work simply to engage in the wholesale disruption of the Australian community. 
I ask: What about the unforeseen things that are likely to happen? What about the unplanned things that are likely to happen? When you get a crowd of people, such as that which I understand the planners of this Moratorium envisage in Bourke Street and other streets in metropolitan cities, when you get these sorts of people going into places where they hope to go, what about the hysterical things that will arise? I have seen a little hysteria around here this afternoon. 1 expect that one would see a bit more hysteria in busy streets. I draw the Senate's attention to the fact that this Moratorium is designed to disrupt the Australian community, so it is typical of the Communist philosophy that has been followed in China and through Europe and elsewhere during the years. When the Communist world cannot win on the battle fields and when it cannot win in orderly ways, then it embarks on propaganda to seep its way nefariously into the community. If one looks at the advertisement for the Moratorium in the 'Australian' one sees that the organisers are asking everybody to gather at some place in Sydney on Friday morning, and what is the first thing they are going to do? I quote from the advertisement, which states: 'Folk singing and other activity'. Is this not typical? Is this not part of the line? On the following morning activities are going to commence in the shopping centres. The whole thing is designed to disrupt and interfere with the regular Australian way of life. lt is very significant that when men like  Dr Cairns  cannot persuade the Australian electorate, they find a minority, a rowdy minority, and they encourage them to break laws and to promote anarchy. Today we have a condition of affluence, and it is unfortunately true that sometimes affluence leads to apathy and apathy invariably leads to anarchy. The last thing we want to see arise in this country is the unfortunate situation that has developed in the United States of America recently, but I fear that if this sort of movement gains credence and popularity, we run the grave risk of anarchy of this kind developing in Australia. Of course, in Australia, in America and in most countries the average person has a deep desire for peace. He has a deep desire to lead his life in an unhindered way and in perfect freedom. But I am looking now at a statement made in Perth by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who said that we sometimes believe that the peace that we desire is the peace that is shared in the same way by all nations. He said that this is one of the great weaknesses of democracy and it led to a complete failure to recognise significant events in Germany in the 1930s. We run the risk of not recognising the important dangers of today. 
I should like to see the Senate have an opportunity to vote and perhaps divide on this very important question. I do not wish to see it just talked out. Therefore. I move: 
That the question be  now  put. 
Question put. 
I inform the Senate that my colleagues and I of the Australian Democratic Labor Party have discussed this question of the hours of sittings. Like the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  we feel that any major change in the programme of the Senate might be left until after the end of the Autumn session and before the commencement of the Budget session. Minor alterations in the working week have been recommended. These would be acceptable to me. I believe that having come hereI am here for one primary reason only and that is to do my job as a senator. That is why I cannot agree to the suggestion - we are not really discussing it now - that we 
At least I would not devote very much time to talking about you because I regard time as too valuable. 
Do not interrupt. If you put your big head out you might get a crack on it, as  Dr Cairns  did. However, I was saying when I was rudely interrupted by the Yahoo from Tasmania-- 
1 cannot agree,  Mr President,  that your ruling is supported, without any measure of doubt, by standing order 64. Unquestionably you are supported by parliamentary practice over very many years. Parliamentary practice, of course, has great force not only in this Parliament but also in the older parliaments of the British Commonwealth. But standing order 64 says very clearly, as far as I can read it:  (1.) A motion without Notice, that the Senate at iti; rising adjourn lo any day or hour other than that fixed for the next ordinary meeting of the Senate, for the purpose of  debating  some matter of urgency . . . 
Then it stipulates when that should be done, namely, after petitions have been presented and before the business of the day is proceeded with, lt goes on to stipulate the period of debate and the periods of debating time allowed to the mover, the Minister and subsequent speakers. I cannot really see any ambiguity in that standing order, lt says: 
. adjourn to any day or hour other than that fixed for the next ordinary meeting . . . for the purpose of debating some matter of urgency . . . 
My interpretation of that is that it is a notice of motion, as it were, for a debate on a matter of urgency to take place at the time stated in the motion itself. 1 do not. propose to support the motion of dissent. My reason,  Mr President,  is that you have given an undertaking to have this standing order referred to the Standing Orders Committee for further consideration. Whilst I respect practice, 1 do not think we are entitled, when in the opinion of Senators a standing order is ambiguous or has a double meaning, to allow it to pass without correction or at least consideration by those appointed to examine our Standing Orders from time to time. I cannot see that any advantage or benefit can be gained by carrying this motion of dissent; but 1 believe that much can bc gained if this standing order is clarified and put in simple language so that there will be no possibility of a double interpretation. 
I can see only one meaning in this standing order, and that is that the Senate adjourns to a stated time for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency. No other interpretation can be put on it, as far as I can see. 1 trust that when the matter is referred to the Standing Orders Committee by you,  Mr President,  the Committee will also take the opportunity to have a look at other standing orders, some of which, 1 believe, are outdated and in need of revision and correction. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Cant's)  be agreed to. 
I give contingent notice of motion as follows: 
That contingent on the  President  proceeding to the placing of business on any day I shall move that so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent mc moving a motion relating to the order of business on the notice paper. 
 I agree with the opposition to this motion expressed by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  We do not agree to cut out General Business merely to catch up with a backlog or to eliminate a bottleneck over which we have no control. 
 That is so. At least there is an argument for deferring the motion for another week or two. When we get the business from the other House we might be able to determine the position with more clarity. But as  Senator Murphy  has said, in any event it is not a good thing to abolish General Business, particularly in the present circumstances. Sentaor Murphy has indicated that the Opposition is prepared to streamline procedures, probably to curtail debates by having members speak for a shorter period than their entitlement. In that way we might achieve the result sought by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson). 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. Does a prohibition still exist on senators being conveyed in VIP aircraft? If not, can he indicate in what cases and in what circumstances the prohibition has been departed from? Is it a fact that a VIP plane was employed to convey tired and very anxious Ministers from the House of Representatives to Queensland at a late hour on Friday night, amongst whom were  Mr Swartz, Mr Killen  and  Mr Hulme  accompanied by the honourable member for Griffith? Is there any significance in the fact that the honourable member for Lilley and the honourable member for Ryan were not invited to travel to Brisbane in the aircraft? 
 I am totally in accord with the remarks passed by my colleague  Senator McManus  but I rise particularly to ask the Minister to explain to the Senate why sub-section (4) as it exists in the principal Act was included in the Act at all. It obviously involves an injustice to the patient who is referred to an eye specialist by a general practitioner.  A  patient is referred to the eye specialist not only to obtain spectacles but also to have a consultation. The eye specialist may find that the patient's condition, perhaps the headache from which he is suffering, is due not only to defective eyesight but also to diabetes or a kidney condition or something else. The patient, is treated for the complaint from which he  is  found to be suffering and in addition the eye specialist may say: 'Well, spectacles would aid you considerably' and prescribes accordingly. Because the doctor prescribes spectacles the patient is denied any Commonwealth grant towards the cost of spectacles. The provision is obviously unjust. But  I  am inquisitive enough and curious enough to ask why this sub-section was ever put in the Act. There must be  a  reason and  I  have not heard one. Perhaps the Minister has a good reason, but I doubt it. This is why I rose to ask the Minister to explain why the sub-section was ever put into the principal Act. 
 I rise merely to indicate that my colleagues and I do not support this proposed amendment. I regard it as puerile and unrealistic. Anybody who has had any experience in Parliament and government knows that it is a practice, and indeed an obligation, of the people charged with the government of the country through various departments to inform the public of what is being done by those departments. In the field of tourism money must be spent in advertising scenic attractions. In the field of health the Government has an obligation to tell the public what has been done and what progress has been made in the various sections of the Department of Health. To suggest that every political party represented in the Parliament should be given an equal amount to spend on propaganda literature could not be seriously entertained by the Senate or any other House of Parliament. 
I contend that the practice about which the Opposition complains has been followed for a considerable time. It is not something that has happened only since the Menzies Government was elected in 1949. I invite members of the Opposition to cast their minds back to the days of preceding governments when such literature was disseminated throughout the States. That literature had overtones of propaganda. Let us be honest and realistic. I was the leader of a State Government and I did no more or no less than my predecessors had done in that regard. I distributed literature explaining how legislation had been enacted for the preceding 3 years and the effect that the legislation had had or was having in the community life of the State. We felt justified in doing that at the expense of the taxpayers. 
Whilst the Opposition plays an important and indispensible part in a democratic system of government, it is not required, to the same measure and extent as the Government is, to give an account to the public of its stewardship. That responsibility rests very heavily on a responsible elected government. I cannot understand why the Opposition would propose this amendment other than that it must feel that the literature that has been disseminated through the various Commonwealth departments is of a very high standard and is having an advantageous effect for the Government. 
My colleague  Senator McManus  has interjected that he thought a lot was left to be desired in some of the literature that had been put out, particularly on Vietnam. 
 I do not need any coaching. I think I have displayed that here. There are a few lessons I could teach  Senator Mulvihill  and others. 1 know what I. am talking about when I enter a debate. It is a pity that some other honourable senators do not speak in debates only when they have something worthwhile to contribute and know something about the subject matter of the debate. I was about to say when I was rudely interrupted- 
 Not at all. He did not rudely interrupt me. He just whispered his interjections. 
 This is all news to me as the Leader of a Party in this House. I have not been consulted about the recommittal and I think that is discourtesy in the worst form. I protest very seriously about it. If there is to a be a recommittal of any matter I am entitled to be consulted and advised of the circumstances necessitating that action. 
 It is not my desire to engage in tedious repetition on this proposed amendment, but I would like to indicate that the case submitted by  Senator McClelland  of the Opposition, who has moved the proposed amendment and has been supported by  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Murphy,  is so strong that the members of the Democratic Labor Party find no difficulty in supporting it. We consider that an excellent case has been made out for amendment and the attitude of the Government to me is incomprehensible. A person who meets with an accident and is confined to hospital incurs medical expenses. If he does not make a claim on the individual or company responsible for his accident he receives medical benefits. If he makes a claim his medical benefits are withheld for an indefinite period.  His  case may not be heard in the courts for a considerable time. That is not an unusual position today. 
I am coming to that. Even if he is successful, the delay should not mean that the patient, the contributor to the medical scheme, has to wait without any aid at all from the fund to which he is a contributor. That is an injustice. If he fails in his claim, he belatedly receives the medical benefits, with the approval of the Director-General of Health. What is compensation? Why is compensation paid? It covers several factors. Compensation is paid for suffering, economic loss and loss of wages. Many factors are allowed for in awarding compensation. 
Sentaor Murphy - Including personal injury. 
A man might suffer a permanent physical disability as a result of his accident. It is true that an element of the claim will be for medical and hospital expenses. Some system should be devised so that an adjustment can be made, if necessary, without holding up payment to the patient and the contributor - he is both in the case I am outlining - of the benefits to which he is justly and legally entitled. I would go further and say that if there is any claim for reimbursement to the Commonwealth for any moneys paid out, the claim should be made on the defendants in the action and not on the patient. The 
Commonwealth should look to the defendants in the action for reimbursement of payments to the patient, the contributor. I support the proposed amendment. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [11.38]  -  Senator Turnbull  is not in the chamber at the moment but I wish to reply to a point he raised. He referred to long delays in payments. This is recognised. I would just like to point out that this provision has been in the Act since 1953. There have been cases, as we well recognise, in which there have been long delays. If any hardship is caused, the Commonwealth has a right to make payments. This is done to overcome any hardship that exists. 
Amendment and request agreed to. 
Clause agreed to with an amendment and subject to a request. 
Clause 17. 
Section 23 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (1.) all the words after the word " contributor " (second occurring). 
I have mixed feelings on this suggested amendment. I am sympathetic as always to the indigent or the family man who might find difficulty in contributing to a medical benefit society. I cannot reconcile the Opposition's desire to pay a Commonwealth benefit to a person who is not in the category of the indigent or the hard pressed family man and who has the capacity to contribute to the scheme but does not. Why is he entitled to a Commonwealth grant? 
Of course he is a taxpayer. I know many people who do not and will not contribute to a medical benefits scheme. 
Yes, but they are not available to me at the moment any more than they are to the honourable senator. That is what has caused me mixed feelings about this amendment. After all, this is a voluntary scheme. No-one is compelled to join it. 
Give me a go. You do not want to monopolise in all things, do you? People who are provident enough and responsible enough to provide for the emergency of ill health and hospitalisation should not be discouraged from joining a fund by any act of this Parliament. That is the point. In the old days the friendly society was the protective association or organisation of which people became members, to provide for medical advice and financial aid in the case of sickness. That is what the responsible married man did. 
 I am not making a comparison of service. The fact remains that if a man was responsible and his family started to increase he felt that he had to have security., insurance or protection if he could afford it. He felt that he had a responsibility to his wife and family and himself to have some insurance in the event of sickness, particularly his own sickness, he being the breadwinner. He feared that he might get sick. As a result, he felt that it was necessary to have a friendly society behind him. While dealing with friendly societies and the voluntary hospital and medical benefits scheme I think I should point out to  Senator Mulvihill,  who is continually saying that he contributes to a fund but he has not drawn anything from it, the the spirit which permeated the friendly societies was that the young who are blessed with good health should contribute towards aiding those who are not so fortunate. 
 That is questionable. I am not going to interrupt my speech to argue about that aspect because I do not have the relevant statistics in front of me. I would be wasting time if I were to argue about it. I am talking about the principle of the matter. 
 If only the honourable senator would listen. I know that he experiences difficulty in understanding, but if only he would listen. I was a member of a friendly society, as were so many other people. What prompted me to join a friendly society? I felt that I had a responsibility to my wife and family to do so, because in the event of my illness they would get something from the friendly society. The same spirit is behind the present medical and hospital benefits scheme. It is one of mutual aid. The present scheme should appeal to any decent 'Labor man because it involves mutual assistance. It is said that a lot of people cannot afford to join this scheme. As I have already said, I think a man with a big family and in receipt of a low income would experience difficulty in budgeting for his contribution to a medical and hospital benefits scheme. I feel sympathetic towards such a person. But if I am going to help him in the way suggested I am also going to aid people who are just too mean to contribute to a medical and hospital benefits scheme. These people have the capacity to contribute but they do not do so because they are prepared to take a risk. 'Even though these people may be taxpayers I do not feel inclined to hand out Commonwealth benefits to them when thenconduct is neither more nor less than irresponsible. The present funds are more or less mutual benefit societies, bodies or organisations. I think we should ensure that the indigent and the poor are not disregarded in time of sickness. When they are required to seek hospital attention they should not be burdened with intolerable expenses. However, I cannot vote in favour of the amendment for the simple reason that I cannot bring myself to aid people who will not do something towards looking after their own interests. 
14.34) - I do not know whether the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  would prefer to reply to the query of  Senator Prowse  before I contribute to the debate? 
 1 deferred making any contribution to the debate on this amendment in the hope that the Minister would give a fuller explanation of the position. To my mind, with  due  respect, she has failed to do so. Hence we had the query from  Senator Prowse  concerning who would benefit  in  the  event of  the Government agreeing to this amendment. Would it be the patient, the hospital authorities or the State? 
 Indirectly,  yes. 
 At the present time, hospitals in all States except Queensland are paid $2  a  day  even  for non-insured patients. In Queensland hospitals are paid 80c a day.  One  cannot help but be impressed with the report  of  the Nimmo Committee of Inquiry on Health Insurance. I do not want to engage in tedious repetition, I do not want to read all of this passage because  1  believe that some of it has been quoted, but I believe that these paragraphs are important: 
At the present time  a  benefit of 80c a day is paid by the Commonwealth  to  hospitals  on  account of patients who are  not  pensioners  and are  not insured wilh a hospital insurance organisation. Payment of this benefit is  not  really part of the health insurance scheme,  lt is a  relic  of  the system which was followed  in  the late 1940s. Eligibility for payment has been continued, but the  rate has not been varied since 1948. At the present time payment at the rate of 80c a day is clearly of little significance to the patients who are eligible for it, bearing in mind that their hospital fees, even at the standard ward level, are in the vicinity of $10 a day in most States. 
In the overall consideration of the question ot benefits for uninsured patients we think there are two distinct groups in respect of whom special consideration is warranted. The first comprises public ward patients in Queensland. The Queensland Government has long pursued a policy of free treatment in public wards for everyone regardless of the patient's financial state. So long as this policy is pursued there is no real reason for Queensland people who are satisfied with public ward treatment to take out hospital insurance. In view of the Queensland Government's policy there is no basis for an agreement between it and the Commonwealth Government on the lines we have recommended earlier. The Queensland Government's policy gives full effect to the Commonwealth objective of affording the community adequate financial protection against the cost of hospital treatment. While the policy continues it is our view that the Commonwealth should pay its full benefit (at present $2 a day) to Queensland hospitals in respect of all public ward patients. 
In addition to that we have the report from the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs. 
That is right, but on page 32 it states: 
On the question of Commonwealth benefit to Queensland hospitals, the Committee believes that the non-availability of the insured benefit of $2 per day for the large percentage non-insured has the effect of discriminating against the citizens of Queensland, because they happen to have a system of free 'public ward' treatment. The Committee therefore recommends the payment of the insured benefit for inpatients at Queensland public hospitals, irrespective of whether the patients are insured or not 
We are influenced in this connection by the reports of both Committees. I would counsel the Minister to accept the amendment and bring the Commonwealth health scheme into line with the recommendations contained in these 2 reports. 
The hospitals. 

 Senator Dame IVY WEDGWOOD (Victoria) 14.39]  -  There seems to be some doubt in the minds of honourable senators as to how hospital benefits are paid and what amounts are payable. 1 refer honourable senators to pages 103 and 104 of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs which was brought down in the Senate today. They will find there that these matters are all spelled out. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [4.40] - 1 was asked a question about th» payment of the benefit. 1 would refer the Committee to section 47(1.) of the National Health Act, which states: 
Commonwealth benefit und'er this Division is payable to the registered hospital benefits organisation that conducts the hospitals benefits fund to which the contributor concerned is a contributor 
The Opposition, in its amendment, refers to a person who receives hospital treatment in a private hospital, lt is saying that everybody, whether he be insured or whatever he might be, should be paid this benefit. 1 can only reply, as 1 replied earlier, by stating that the Commonwealth feels that this is completely contrary to our philosophy that the national health scheme should encourage voluntary insurance, so that when a patient goes into a hospital and the hospital makes a charge, we pay a benefit to the fund to assist the patient to meet the hospital charge. The amendment is not acceptable to the Government because it is completely contrary to the things which, by this legislation, we are encouraging people to do. 
I thank sincerely the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  for having made reference to the recent death of the former Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and also for his expression of condolence to be conveyed to the widow and family of the late  Mr Joshua.  Honourable senators can imagine the feelings of my colleagues and myself when we received the sad news of the death of Robert Joshua. We received the news with a very deep sense of sorrow and with a sense of personal loss.  Mr Robert  Joshua was a member of the House of Representatives in this Parliament and from the time of the establishment of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, which was originally known in Victoria as the Australian Labor Party (Anti-Communist), was 
Federal President of the Party until yesterday when he died. He had been ill for a few months only. He had taken a very active part in the workings of the Party and in the political life of Australia since he was defeated in Ballaarat in 1955. We feel with his death, an almost irreplaceable loss to our Party. 
Robert Joshua was a man in every sense of the word. He was a man of political courage, personal courage and military courage. He possessed a kindly but firm nature which endeared him to all those who were privileged to know him. Bob Joshua had a distinguished war record and many years of political parliamentary service. He was wounded by shell fire twice in separate battles at El Alamein while serving as a major with the 2/32 Australian Infantry Battalion. He war awarded the Military Cross and later commanded the 2/43 Battalion in Lae and Finschhafen, and then the 13/33 Battalion in Australia until 1946. He had been promoted to the rank of lieutenant-colonel. He was wounded no less than 3 times during the War. He was elected to the House of Representatives as the member for Ballaarat in 1951 and reelected in 1954. He served with the Australian Labor Party until he and others within the Party reached the stage where they felt they could no longer serve under the leadership of  Dr Evatt,  principally because they believed a strong liaison existed between  Dr Evatt  and the Communist Party in Australia and beyond its boundaries.  Mr Joshua  led his colleagues 
 What I have said is historical fact, and there can be no disputation about it. That was the reason why these people left the party. 
 I withdraw only because of the circumstances of the ease.  Mr Joshua  has stood as the Democratic Labor Party candidate for the electorate of Ballaarat at every House of Representatives election which has been held since 1955. and he always secured a strong vote in a seat the result of which on each and every occasion has been determined by DLP preferences. I have referred to  Mr Joshua's  military courage, as a soldier. He also had personal courage, too, and unlike so many more, he had the courage, as an officer of a private bank, lo get out on a public platform and advocate nationalisation of banking. 

 Mr joshua is a former State  President  of the Victorian Branch of the Democratic Labor Party, and he served on the Democratic Labor Party's Central Executive continuously until last year. With an accountancy and banking background, he specialised in economics and financial policies. As Federal  President  of the DLP he presided at meetings of the DLP's Federal Executive and Federal Conferences, and as VicePresident of the Party I felt honoured to serve under his leadership.  Mr Joshua  was a devout Anglican, and on Thursday he will be buried from the Anglican Cathedral in Ballarat. 
In conclusion, I should like to say thank you to the major Press of Australia for the dignified manner in which it conveyed to the Australian public the news of the passing of a very distinguished Australian. But I express regret and deplore very deeply the fact that I newspaper which circulates in all States of Australia, and which carries a name which is symbolic of fair play, decency and mateship, contained a very brief news item on  Mr Joshua's  death, in the course of which it said, in effect, that he was leader of the Democratic Labor Party only because he embraced a religious faith which was different from that of others on the Parry's Executive. Bob Joshua was leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party from its inception because he was a man of great virtue, a man of exceptional qualities and a man with leadership qualities which commended themselves to those who had the choice of selecting a leader. 1 think that to smear  Mr Joshua,  by suggesting he was leader of the  DLP  only because he was of a different religious persuasion was mean, despicable and something to be deplored. 
Bob Joshua was a great Austraiian. He was a man who loved his God, his country and his fellow man. He was a man who in al) his life endeavoured to do the best for this country and for the people who live within its boundaries. I join with the Leader of the Government in the Senate in supporting the expression of condolence to his widow. I sincerely thank the Minister for having made that expression here today. It is true that  Mr Joshua  did not serve in the Senate, but although we have no voice in the House of Representatives, I ami pleased to know that a similar expression of condolence was made in that House this afternoon, for which we in the Democratic Labor Party are grateful. 
I seek leave to make a short statement. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In this morning's issue of the 'Australian' is a brief report of the tributes paid in the House of Representatives and in the Senate to the late  Mr Robert  Joshua a former member of the House of Representatives and  President  of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. The report is headed: 'MPs Pay Tribute to ALP  President'.  If at all possible, I should like to find out whether that heading is just another case of bad and inaccurate reporting by this newspaper or whether it is an attempt again to smear the late Robert Joshua. 
(12.19] - I am sure that the motives for this legislation and the purpose for which it is designed will appeal to every Australian who is desirous of seeing Australian-owned industry established and expand. I have not been unduly apprehensive about the injection of foreign capital into the exploitation of the natural resources of this country because I recognise that the risk capital available in Australia for the purposes of exploiting our natural resources is not adequate to enable us to do what overseas investment can achieve. 
In the State of Queensland, which I represent in this chamber, there are several large projects which stand as monuments to what has been achieved by overseas investment. It is possible that these projects could not have been undertaken by ourselves at the time they were undertaken. I refer in particular to the great project which was undertaken by Mount Isa Mines Ltd. This project is regarded as one of the great mining undertakings in the world today. Overseas investment spurred the development of this project and provided for its expansion. The mine operated for a large number of years before a dividend was paid to the shareholders. With the aid of the State Government in Queensland, which was desirous of having an industry1 such as this one developed in a remote part of this very extensive State, the development of the project finally succeeded and commenced to reimburse those who had' maintained such faith in it. 
It is to the credit of Mount Isa Mines Ltd that as the years went on and prosperity accompanied its efforts it saw fit to convert itself into a public company and to invite Australian investors to take part in its operations. The company was principally or predominantly controlled by interests in the United States of America, although a good deal of United Kingdom money had been invested in the venture. The company did more than convert itself into a public company; it appointed Australians to its board of management and displayed what I believe to be a common sense approach by overseas investors in the exploitation of our natural resources and, for that matter, industry of any kind. Unfortunately, too many of the overseas companies which have come here for the purpose of exploiting our natural resources do very little in this regard. The result is that the question is asked: What are Australians doing to develop their own resources? Some companies put token Australian representation on their boards of management; others permit a minority subscription in shares. But the aspect of foreign owned companies which irks Australians most is that, in the main, the profits go out of Australia. 
Whilst, like  Senator Webster,  I am concerned about certain facets of this Bill, I believe that in principle it is a genuine attempt on behalf of the Government to provide capital, which is an indispensable ingredient in the establishment of industry and the. expansion of industry in this country, in order to eliminate as far as possible, but not entirely, the taking over of Australian industries by foreign companies. There are many instances in Australia today where the Australian investor in a company or the controlling element in a company has not been able to expand to the extent that he would desire or at which he would aim because of lack of capital. In these circumstances he has been forced to encourage the invesement in his company of overseas capital with the result that there has been ultimately a takeover. 
Although I said at the outset that 1 have not, up to this stage anyway, been apprehensive about the measure of overseas investment in Australia, I am conscious of the fact that the lime has now arrived when we have to do more than we have been doing to encourage the Austraiian .investor, the Australian industrialist and for thaI matter the Australian investor lo establish his own industry. At the same lime we must encourage existing Australian industries to expand and develop with a view to utilising our low cost raw materials and wilh a view lo exporting products overseas. Many demands are made on the existing financial institutions, banks and others, and it is evident that notwithstanding what the Government has tried to do through the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia and other institutions that have been set up there is an urgent need for supplementary action in this connection. Some people in the banking world today have expressed apprehension about the effect that this legislation will have on the banking institutions. I do not share their apprehension because this will provide an additional means of making capital available to Australian industry. The corporation which is to be set up under this legislation will operate independently of the Government, but at the same lime il will have the imprimatur of the Government for the purpose of raising money- mainly overseas - and for the lending of money lo Australian industrialists to establish industry and lo expand industry. 
 The profit that will come from this corporation through ils being able to raise money and io lend money to industrialists will be seen in the great advantage to be gained in the development of Australia's industry. From that there must accrue to the banking institutions further profits on top of what they are making already. Why is the Government required to give consideration to legislation of this kind? ls it not because of the limited financial resources available to Australias industries? lt is for no reason other than that. The Government says that whereas a company or firm of Australian industrialists might not succeed in the overseas money market, a corporation with the imprimatur of the Australian Government on it could very well succeed in raising money for a worthy project or purpose. This is conditional, of course, on the corporation acting sanely in the matter of the interest that it pays for money. That is all-important. I do not think the corporation requires me to advise it on what could be regarded as a fair rate of interest on money loaned. 
From my own experience as Minister for Labour and Industry in a Stale Parliament I know that particularly in the years immediately following the war ex-servicemen and other young men who desired to establish industries on their own  account, to give effect to and to provide an outlet for their own enterprise, initiative and talents, were unable to follow out their plan because of their inability to obtain capital. To some extent I was responsible for the establishment of the North Australian Cement Ltd works at. Townsville. I was a Minister in a government which grew tired of importing cement from southern States. 
 We imported cement from Tasmania and from Japan. We were importing cement because the only cement works in Queensland at the time was unable lo supply the demands of our Slate. Finally I was able to interest the principals of several companies, including Mount lsa Mines Ltd, to join together to form a company. However, they were unable to find the necessary funds. A cement plant is a very costly undertaking, lt was necessary for the State Government to arrange for a bank guarantee to enable them to establish the cement works which, I am pleased to say, has been a marked success from the lime it was established. That was no' i&gt;.id effort for an allegedly Socialist Premier. 
A similar situation applied to many other industries. There were times when Mount lsa Mines Ltd needed a loan, but in those cases the banks were able to provide the funds on a State Government bank guarantee. Australia has developed and has grown at such a rate that our banking institutions either do not have the money or have the money but will not lend it. In the course of my experience a number of people have come to me and to my successors in the Department of Labour and Industry, which controlled the Department of Industrial Development - a section which 1 founded many years ago - pleading for governmental aid because of their inability to obtain funds from banks. For that reason I say that the legislation is timely. It is to be hoped that the purposes of and the ideas which are contained in the Bill will work successfully and that the Australian Industry Development Corporation will not be a duplication or cut across the operations of our present banking institutions, whether it be the Austraiian Resources Development Bank or the private trading banks. It is to be hoped that the Corporation will be supplementary to those institutions and that it will provide an additional avenue of finance for those who are in need of money for the development of Australian industry. lt is ho use our continuing to complain about foreign investment in Australia unless we are prepared to do something ourselves to encourage and develop industry in Australia, not to the exclusion entirely of foreign investment. There is still room for foreign investment, but I am one who believes that a foreign company has to recognise that if it comes here to take advantage of our natural resources, in addition to paying a small royalty to a State government for the coal or uranium or bauxite or whatever it is that is being won, it should, in its own interests as well as in the interests of Australia, give some consideration to taking an Australian element into the company and at least giving Australian investors an opportunity to invest in these undertakings to a greater extent than is the case at the present time. 
I think that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Willesee)  described the legislation as being very radical. I cannot see that it is very radical at all. It is a commonsense process. It is a process which has been evolved as a result of problems which have arisen, in particular, over the last few years. We have seen - and the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  referred to this in his second reading speech - the number of major manufacturing companies, not small companies, that have been absorbed by overseas companies. They have been absorbed in the main principally because an Australian company was unable to finance the development that was imperative for the economic development of that company and for the manufacture of its product at a cost that would make it competitive in overseas markets. It has been nothing more than that. No Australian company receives any comfort or pleasure from handing over its management to an overseas company, after years of hard work, merely for money. In most cases that have come under my notice I have been satisfied that the companies would have been happy to continue to develop if finance had been available. 
It is not much use banks and other lending institutions bemoaning the introduction of this legislation and reading into it a lot of dire results, at least before this experiment - one might classify it as such - has been tried. There are, and will be, many applicants for loans from banks. .1 do not think that banks have any real cause to be disturbed. Most of our manufacturing industries are small industries. Statistics indicate that factories which employ more than 20 men are not great in number.  Major industries,  such as the motor vehicle industry, which are employing hundreds of men are 90% foreign controlled. The industrial and heavy chemical industry and the pharmaceuticals industry have more than 80% foreign control. This might be all right, but it scarcely can be regarded as a satisfactory position. I have no doubt that we could have carried out this work just as efficiently as foreign companies have done if necessary and adequate capital had been available in Australia. In the electrical and electronic industries, including many small enterprises, overseas ownership is approximately 50% . 
I have mentioned alumina. The production of alumina and aluminium is about 75% controlled by overseas companies. That raw material lay in the ground, just as uranium has done, in the northern part of Queensland for centuries. When it was discovered the risk capital was not available in Australia to exploit and develop it as it has been done by overseas companies. We have no cause to complain about overseas companies coming in and taking advantage of the discovery of these minerals. Our cause for complaint and regret is that no Australian capital was available to enable Australian enterprise to carry out this work. I suppose that the same comment applies to Mount Isa. to which I have already referred. A gouger found copper at MountIsa but he was not able to exploit it. I suppose that he was unsuccessful in trying to raise the money. 
SenatorLillico - But you would need billions of dollars to rectify all that. It would not be a mere drop in the bucket. 
To rectify what? 
-I  have already covered that point by saying that we are not closing the door entirely on overseas investment. But we are going to try to do something in Australia's interest. This is only an initial step to make finance available to Australian manufacturers for the establishment of industries and the expansion of existing ones. With that I am sure no Australian could find fault or complaint and 1 hope that it works out as successfully as the Minister would like. Any proposal such as this must really of necessity find many critics because it is a new approach to the whole question of the industrial development of this country. There are a lot of people - unfortunately too many - who are too ready to look at such a proposal with apprehension and fear. I am not saying that the Bill should not be subject to a closer examination. 
There are some people who have expressed the view, in correspondence received by me and by my colleagues, that the legislation is not being properly considered and that the Bill should be deferred until such time as further consideration can be given to its provisions. The Melbourne Chamber of Commerce is one organisation which I thought would have welcomed a Bill such as this but it is a body, with all due respect to it, which says that it has come to the unanimous conclusion that the passage of the Bill should be delayed so as to permit more time for its consideration and that there seems to be a strong doubt as to whether a convincing case has been made out for the establishment of the Corporation. The Chamber says: 
It seems that the objectives  for  its establishment could be achieved by some modification in the constitution ofthe Australian Resources Development Bank. 
Again I say that I appreciate that on these chambers of commerce there are many able and qualified men whose opinions must be taken into consideration. But do honourable senators not think that if the Government could achieve what it aims to achieve in this legislation by merely modifying the constitution of the Australian Resources Development Bank it would have been only loo ready and happy to take this course of action? This would have been the course that would have caused the Government less worry and would have achieved the same result, according to the Chamber of Commerce. 
Yes, as my colleague says, it would have kept Cabinet Ministers in greater harmony than they have been since this Bill was introduced. However, I am satisfied, as I said at the outset, that any thinking Australian whilst he might disagree with certain phases of the legislation must say that the motive for this legislation is good. It is a sincere attempt to do something and to correct something about which we have heard so much complaint over the last few years particularly, that is, that Australia was selling out to overseas companies and that the Government was giving Australia away bit by bit. That is just what has been said by so many for so long. This organisation goes on to say: 
Whilst it was originally understood that the IDC would divest itself of its shareholdings as soon as possible, this does not seem to be spelt out in the Bill. 
Well, what is the cause for great concern about that? There is a solution to it. Let the scheme get under way and a lot of these things will iron themselves out in good time. The organisation says further: 
The proposed Corporation will be allowed to borrow in Australia, although its borrowings in the main will be obtained from overseas. 
That is true. Well, these people are complaining about borrowing from overseas and now they are complaining that the Corporation is going to borrow in both places. Evidently the moneylenders - the banks and others - do not want to lose our business on the one hand and on the other hand they are saying: 'Well, it is not right that the Corporation should borrow in Australia as well as overseas.' The organisation continues: 
When it is borrowing in Australia, it is subject apparently to rules laid down by the Reserve Bank in respect lo borrowings of overseas controlled companies. There is, we believe, an amendment passed in the House of Representatives which requires the IDC to have regard to the authorities' monetary policy, however, in section 9 of the Bill, it is stated that the Government will have no power of  direcion  over the Corporation. A fear remains whether the IDC will operate for the benefit of the economy and, in addition, it could become a competitor of the States on the local money market. 
I cannot see the merit of that submission at all. I cannot see that the Corporation will be a competitor with the States on the local money market. I would imagine that it would relieve to a great extent the difficulty of the States in obtaining money for essential projects on the local money market. The organisation says further: 
The Corporation is supposed to be set up to help where existing banking and other financial institutions cannot meet the requirements and this would imply that the Corporation is lo be a lender of last resort. However, this is not made clear in the Bill and it is felt that the Bill allows for the Corporation to participate in the formation of a company. 
When the Corporation sells its share (which is apparently the intention)- 
And this is the matter raised by  Senator Webster  a little while ago -  what guarantees are there that the shares will not end up in overseas hands and thus negate what we believe is the prime objective of the Bill? 
I believe that a corporation set up under legislation of this kind could be depended upon and relied upon to attend to a matter such as that and at least I would have sufficient confidence in those who will be charged with the administration of this Corporation to attend to that factor. The organisation says: 
There are several other objectionable features in the Bill which could be explained in detail if more time were available. For this reason, therefore, we would urge that you use your influence in the Senate to have consideration of the Bill deferred until bodies like the Chamber of Commerce have had lime to consider it . . . 
I do not propose to make any attempt to defer the legislation. I think the Chamber of Commerce, and the Chamber of Manufactures - if it is involved in the objections - and the banks are wrong. I cannot bring myself to believe that any deferment will remedy the position at all. They have no doubt had their opportunities of making their submissions when this matter was before the other House and prior to that, and that being the case 1, on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party in this Senate, say that this legislation has our blessing. We feel that it is a genuine attempt to arrest the rapid increase of overseas investment in this country and the takeover of Australian industry. 
I do not want to engage in repetition. One requires to have had only minor experience and knowledge of the difficulties that so many people in Australia suffered over the years in trying to give expression to their inventive ideas, their knowledge, their enterprise, their energy and their skill to know how they were frustrated because of the inability of banks and other lending institutions to make funds available to them. My experience is that banks are prepared to lend money provided they have a gilt edged security and that a person is already successful, making big profits and paying dividends and there is no element of risk associated with the loan. 
I know a young man who during the depression years became unemployed through no fault of his own, as did so many tens of thousands of people. He was a beneficiary in an estate but there was a condition that he was not to receive his share which was on fixed deposit with one of the old private banks until he reached a certain age. The only thing that he could see in the way of employment was selfemployment. He had limited ready money so he decided to purchase a newsagency shop which had a newspaper delivery round attached. He did not have sufficient money to pay for it and the vendor naturally wanted cash because he, too, was in financial difficulties due to the depression. The man whom I knew personally went to the bank, and notwithstanding the fact that the bank was holding a large sum of money that belonged to him it was not prepared to give him financial accommodation of any kind. I do not suppose that that is a rare case. The bank argued that it had no authority although it could not deny that the money belonged to the young man provided he lived for another 12 months. The bank could have advanced a loan without risk. Business conduct such as that docs not encourage people to be very interested in the complaints of the banking institutions. One might as well ask people to cry for a bookmaker as to cry for a bank, and I do not think that anyone is likely to do that. A  person  might cry because he has left so much of his money with the bookmaker in his attempt to win at gambling, but that is all. 
We could quote figures relating to what has taken place in Australia of recent years. The record of what has taken place reads like a romance. There are not many people in this Parliament or outside it who expected that the measure of development and progress which has taken place would take place. The credit for that must be given to some extent to overseas investors who invested money in Australia because of the inability of our own people to find the necessary capital. They can still share in the development of this country provided that they recognise that they have an obligation to allow Australians to play a part because, after all, in the first instance the bauxite, the coal and the uranium, etc., belong to the Australian people and the investors have been privileged at little or no cost to develop, exploit, produce and sell our resources. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cant)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 
As Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party I desire to inform the Senate that it is my intention to move a motion concerning this matter, copies of which will be circulated shortly. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator  hail)  - ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 Senator MURPHY (New South Wales - Leader of the Opposition) - In view of what has been said by  Senator Gair,  perhaps the easiest way would be for mc to move the suspension of the Standing Orders in order to enable my motion  to  be debated, and if the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  wants to move his motion, it could be dealt with cognately. If the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  wishes lo move a motion, there will be no objection to that being dealt with cognately. This will be the easiest way to do it. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Thai so much of  the  standing orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the Opposition moving Notice of Motion No. 5, General Business, standing in his name and as would prevent other matters relating to the establishment of standing committees being considered concurrently with that motion. 
Question resolved in (he affirmative. 
19.331  -  On behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Parly I move: 
The Senate accepts and approves the principle of standing committees of the Senate appropriate lo various areas of departmental  administration. 
The specific committeestobe established be those recommended in the Standing Orders Committee's report of 17th March L970. 
The actual establishment of the total number of committees, pursuant to that recommendation, be done over a period of not less than 12 months and not before 3 of the said Committees selected by the Senate for first establishment have actually operated and report of the operation of these Committees has been presented to  the  Senate by the  President. 
That a report be presented tothe Senate by  the  President not later thanthe commencement of the first session of 1971 as to the administrative, accommodation and staff requirements for the establishment of  the  total number of committees proposed pursuant to  the  report of the Standing Orders Committee. 
In support of that motion, I should like to point out, as is stated inthe first paragraph of the motion, that our Party accepts and approves of the principle of standing committees of the Senate because we believe that they could have the effect of expediting and facilitating the business of the Senate without taking from an individual senator the right to address himself on any matter when the report of a committee is submitted to the Senate. We also believe that no matter should be referred to a committee without the approval of the majority of the Senate. In our desire to expedite the business of this chamber it is important that we must preserve at all costs the right of an individual senator to address himself to any matter that might come before the Senate at any time. 
We are confident that the committee system could prove advantageous. But we are also conscious o[ the fact that this scheme must be accepted as being a major departure from a process of business that has been in existence in the Senate, with little or no alteration, almost since federation. The proposal must be implemented with caution not with conservatism as some honourable senators said in the course of" debate by way of interjection. We must exercise legitimate and valid caution until such time as we are acquainted with the capacity of members ofthe committees to deal with questions, and also until we know from the officers of the Senate just what the position is regarding the administrative facilities and accommodation and staff  requirements for the  establishment of the total number of committees proposed pursuant to the Standing Orders Committee's report. 

 Senator Murphy conceded that the success of these committees depended to a great deal on the officers on the committees. Any of us who have had experience on a committee recognise and appreciate to ; he full the valuable contribution which the committee officers are making to the successful working of the committees. In the mot ion we suggest that the establishment of the total number of committees pursuant to the recommendation contained in the Standing Orders Committee's report of17th March 1970 be done over a period of not less than 12 months and not before 3 of the said committees selected by the Senate for first establishment have actually operated and a report of their deliberations has been presented to ihe Senate. Then [ believe that we would be in a much more favourable position to assess the capacity of the Senate to appoint more than 3 committees. We might find that 3 committees are more than enough. But let us experiment and adopt the suggestion of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  and have a policy of gradualism - hasten slowly and he firm in our conviction on the efficacy of the committee system before we throw the whole thing open and have 6 committees operating unsatisfactorily and with poor results. 1 think that is an approach which should appeal to all honourable senators. At least, it should appeal to the Leader of the Government in the Senate who suggested a policy of gradualism - of hastening slowly until we find our feet: until we know from the  Clerk  of the Senate what are the difficulties associated with implementing the proposal for the establishment of 6 committees. He might find that he has all the facilities and staff; well and good. Then we can have a look at the whole question. 
I do not propose to cover the ground and  arguments in favour of  the setting up of the committee system. They have already been canvassed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  in a long outline of what he believed and hoped the committee system would bring about. The Leader of the Government in the Senate has also spoken on the matter but all the motions which have been moved accept and approve of the proposal and for that reason there is no necessity for me to cover the ground again. There is an agreement on the principle so it is just a question of how  many committees we should proceed with immediately and just what process we should adopt.  Senator Murphy  said that the details, after all, mattered comparatively little and provided we got approval of the principle we could tidy up the other things gradually in the light of our experience and the progress that our committees made. That should appeal, 1 think, to anyone who is anxious for the success of this proposal. 
If we adopted  Senator Murphy's  proposal or even the recommendation contained in the report of the Standing Orders Committee in toto tonight or at any other time, and set up 6 committees plus a statutory committee, and if we found that these committees were inoperative and that they could not function because of the inability of the Parliament to provide them with staff, administrative facilities and accommodation we would be made a laughing stock in the eyes of the public. I submit that our proposal is a sound one. It is a reasonable one and it is a sensible approach to a very important departure from procedure. 
Not particularly. That is something for the Senate to decide. If this motion moved by my Party is adopted then the Senate will proceed, 1 take it, to appoint the 3 committees which it believes on a majority decision are the most important. We are not presuming to dictate which committees should be appointed. We are more concerned with the number for the present. We are concerned about the successful functioning of these committees. 
No. 
Not necessarily, lt is a question for the Senate to decide. I could move that the 3 committees could be so and so and someone else could move that they be so and so. 
We get the principle established and I think that is the process we should adopt. Our motion states that very clearly. It would probably depend upon and be influenced by a Bill or some other matter that had come before the Senate that would necessitate the appointment of a committee. That would happen and there we would have our first committee appointed on the majority decision of the Senate. 1 do not know that there is very much more that I can say in support of my motion, lt is like Bushells tea; it speaks for itself. 
We are off the air. Someone said in the course of the debate that this Senate has functioned with a greater measure of satisfaction and success of recent years. That is undeniably true, and I believe - and I say it with all due modesty - that a lot of that success is due to the fact that we have a minority party here - of 2 for a long time and now of  4  - that is not chained to any political machine and which exercises a vote on all issues according to its conscience and to ils judgment after very close and careful examination of the pros and cons of the issues that come before this Senate. I claim that credit and I believe that it is a justifiable claim on behalf of the Party that I lead. We will continue to do that and, as I said at the outset in supporting the committee system, we are nol forfeiting and do not intend to forfeit our right to address ourselves in this Senate to any matter that has been the subject of examination by a committee. 
The fact that a matter is sent to a committee will not mean that we, or any other honourable senator for that matter, will be denied the right to address himself to the particular matter for or against. I would think, too, that members of a committee who have sat in conference on a certain issue should, if they feel like it, have the right to speak against the majority decision of that committee. That is democracy at work, I believe. It is not an unusual thing for minority reports to be submitted to this chamber and I suppose they will continue to be submitted from time to time. I just want to make our position clear so there will be no misunderstanding. That is how we understand the position at the present time and that is what we believe should obtain in the event of the committees being  established in the near future. But I say: Let us not rush in to this in case we make a bungle of it and get bogged down. Then the committee system would be consigned to limbo, lt will never be raised because at any time anyone suggests the establishment of a committee we will be reminded that in 1970 we attempted this and because we went at it like a bull at a gate and did not have regard to the facilities available to us for successful functioning we failed in our attempt to establish the standing committee system. 

 Senator DEVITT (Tasmania) [9.49J- 1 would like to make a few brief comments on this subject which 1 think is extremely important. I do not wish to delay the Senate but I feel there are one or two points which ought to be made to clarify my own mind on this and perhaps to assist other honourable senators to come to a decision as to the merits of the matter that is now before us. As I see it, this is a further interesting and quite exciting chapter being written into the history of this Parliament. The purpose of the proposal that is before us at the present time is an excellent one and is consistent with what has been happening for quite some time now - the past 3 years at least - when ali of us have been quite determined and done our level best to make sure that the institution of Parliament works at the highest possible level in the service of the people of this country. 
The thing then to be examined is how to achieve the purpose to which we are now directing our attention and our comments. 1 see initially that there are the kinds of problems to which  Senator Gair  referred during his brief comments. We have a limitation on personnel - that is, the number of senators which I think is set at 44. We have limitations on staff which has been a matter of some concern to other committees which have been operating in the Parliament and we have very serious physical deficiencies in the Parliament itself. I feel bound to say at this stage that while these deficiencies have been evident for years there appears, to the present time at least, to have been very little done to overcome or alleviate the problems which have become accentuated and which make it more difficult day by day for honourable senators really conscientiously trying to carry out their responsibilities and duties. 
The position has worsened since I came here. 
The matter raised by  Senator Bishop  this morning is unquestionably important and I commend him for his interest in it although I cannot commend him for the timing of a debate on such an important matter. The Party which 1 am privileged to lead has given this matter a good deal of attention, examination and thought. Indeed we have seen fit to include in our policy the promise of a completely independent capacity to manufacture our own military and civil aircraft. It is possible for Australia to do that. We must gear ourselves to be able to export aircraft to South East Asian countries by the late 1970's. I am all in accord with the proposal urging action by the Government and by private enterprise to do something positive and early in this regard. 
Australia's capacity to produce aircraft is unquestioned. We have proved in the past that Australia is competent to establish a completely independent capacity to manufacture our own military and civil aircraft. Nevertheless we cannot disregard entirely the statements made this morning by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson).  It is not good enough to throw off the Minister's entire statement merely to satisfy our own particular views. After all, he is a man who has had some experience in the administration of a department which has a close connection with this subject. This matter merits full discussion but I do not agree that the Standing Orders of (he Senate should have been employed to make possible an urgency debate on a matter which at this time could not be classified as urgent. All honourable senators must be conscious of the fact that there is a great accumulation of Bills requiring our attention, and unless we dispose of them we will be here until August when the Budget session is set down to commence. At all times we should take first things first. We should not waste the time of the Senate in dealing with matters that cannot really be regarded as serious and urgent. If this were a serious and urgent matter which had cropped up within the past week or so I would have bren in accord with having a full discussion on it. Unquestionably this is an important matter, but nobody could properly say that it should be regarded as urgent. I do not wish to contribute to the delay of the business of the Senate any further. The Democratic Labor Party has supported and stated publicly in policy speeches that it supports the development of the Australian aircraft industry. If we are really concerned about the employees of our aircraft factories we wm see that this matter is dealt with in a more positive way than by conducting a debate on a matter of urgency, the time for which is limited to 3 hours. 
 You have been here lon ger than J have. You should be able to tell me, instead of asking me. 
 Yes. I am making the observation. There are plenty of opportunities, ample opportunities, to discuss matters of this kind. 
1 will tell you. 1 will see you privately and give you a blackboard lecture. 1 want to register my disapproval of the holding of this debate at this stage. It does not do justice to the subject, and is inappropriate and inopportune in view of the business we have on the notice paper. I seriously recommend to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  that we make up any lime devoted to this debute by the extension of today's sitting even into this evening. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN (Western 
Australia - Minister for Air) 111.37] - I strongly oppose the part of the motion moved by the Opposition which claims that the Government has failed to promote the Australian aircraft industry. 1 believe that over the years the Government has endeavoured to promote a viable aircraft industry in this country. Perhaps we have not gone us far as we would like to go, but 1 feel sure that we all realise the necessity for a strong Australian aircraft industry. After listening to  Senator Poyser  1 wonder whether he recollects that a few years ago Great Britain, a country with probably 5 times our population and a strong manufacturing industry, was looking for a strike bomber aircraft. The TSX2 aircraft was designed and cost the Government of Great Britain a great deal of money. But when looking around for orders and for further development of that aircraft the United Kingdom Government came to the conclusion that it could not go on with it. 
The history of Queensland is spectacular. Many of the pages of its history are devoted to the mining ventures and projects that have been exploited there over the years. It appears that today Queensland has again reached an era of great development of the natural resources with which it has been blessed. It could be said with a great measure of safety that Queensland has produced all types of minerals and metals. During the gold rushes 2 great mining centres were established at Gympie and Charters Towers. Queensland has abundant supplies of copper at Mount Isa, where originally silver, lead and zinc were mined. Operations were converted to copper mining during the war years in response to an appeal by the nation for copper. Originally Mount Morgan was known for gold mining, in addition to Charters Towers and Gympie. It has also converted to copper mining. Queensland produces tin, rutile, zircon, ilmenite and all the metals that can be obtained from sand mining. 
Yes, and uranium and bauxite. Bauxite, of course, is closely connected with this legislation. All these resources are of immense value not only to Queensland, but to the nation. However, unless they can be mined and developed economically they are of little or no value on world markets. They have to be developed as economically as possible to compete on the markets of the world. Three factors are essential to economic production and exploitation of our mineral and metal deposits. I refer to low cost power, water and transport. Providing we can produce from these deposits at an economic price and have the facilities for export, such activities will prove invaluable to the Australian economy. 
T commend  the  Commonwealth Government for responding to the appeal of the Queensland Government for a loan to enable it to establish a large powerhouse at Gladstone, which is the centre of great activity at present in the export of coal. Much  has  been done to improve the harbour facilities at Gladstone. Honourable senators will be aware that next to Sydney Harbour, the harbour at Gladstone  is  probably the best in Australia. Facilities at Gladstone and Port Alma have been expanded to raise them to a modern standard for the export of coal, and later of alumina or aluminium. 
 And. of course, salt is to be found in that district, lt is expected to play a part in a chemical industry that it is hoped to establish there. The response of me Commonwealth Government to the appeal by the Queensland Government for financial aid to enable it to carry out this project  was  nol received and granted without complete and thorough investigation as to the prospects of the establishment of further industries in the part of Queensland to bc served by the planned powerhouse. That is logical and common sense because the expenditure of SI 55m on a power station that would serve only one industry could not be justified. However, the Commonwealth Government has gone into all of that. We can b? sure that it went into  the  matter very thoroughly before the Prime Minister  (Mr  Gorton) made his announcement in September last year that the Commonwealth Government would provide  a  loan of $80m towards the cost of this project. 
I only hope that the expectations of the present Government of Queensland will be realised and fulfilled. I believe that it is a little premature for  Mr Chalk,  the  Deputy  Premier, to be talking about the power station proving to be loo small,  lt  will be time enough for him to express that view when we have something more concrete with regard to the new industries, lt is stated that more details of these new industries cannot be disclosed  at  the present time and must be treated as confidential.  lt  is nol my intention lo question  Mr Chalk's  statement in this connection. I only hope that his optimism will be justified because  it  will mean a great deal nol only to 
Queensland but lo Australia to have export ing industries established in Queensland and operating successfully with the aid of the cheap power that will be available to them. As honourable senators know, Queensland has been blessed very bountifully with unlimited supplies of coal of a very high standard. Coking gas and steaming coal is available in great quantities. Much of it is being exported to Japan and other countries at the present time. 
So I rise to support the Bill and to commend the Commonwealth Government for co-operating with the Queensland Government in this matter.  "1  he great value of this project, in my view anyway, is that it is a very positive step towards the decentralisation of Australia's industries which is so much desired. For too long we have had the concentration of our major industries in the  2  great cities of Sydney and Melbourne. There are many reasons why wc should not centralise our industries lo the extent that would make them great targets in time of war for any enemy who might endeavour to invade this country. The further we spread our industries me safer they will be.  1  am sure that it is not to he desired that all our industries should bc in I centre. 
Reference has been made by  Senator Georges  to some shares that have been distributed lo members of the Cabinet in Queensland and to other important personages throughout Australia. In that connection I commend the Prime Minister on having advised his Ministers not lo accept these shares, which were being distributed al a preferential rate. He showed ' good judgment. He exercised wise discretion.  1  believe that it was highly improper, firstly, for the company concerned to offer these shares and, secondly, for people, particularly those in charge of government, to accept them. 
 According to the Press reports; thai is all I have to go on. The Courier-Mail" reported  Mr Chalk  as having said that he did not deny having received these shares. He justified his action by saying that his shareholding was a personal matter and he did not desire to comment on it. ! say that ii is unfortunate that this is taking place because the Comalco company is the company that will benefit under the legislation now before us. The Commonwealth Government is assisting the State to build this power station which is primarily for that company's benefit. We cannot help people putting their own interpretations on these matters, as wrong as they may be. The deduction may be wrong, but the fact remains that there is a basis for people to come to the wrong deduction or conclusion that there is something improper about the matter because of the indiscretion of both the company and the recipients of these new shares. 
I do not intend to suggest that there is anything improper about it, but at least it gives people room to arrive at a conclusion that there is something improper about it, and that should never be the position in respect of governments in their dealings with big companies which are establishing industries and engaging in the exploitation of the raw materials of Queensland, or any other State for that matter. I believe that members of governments themselves would be much happier and that it would be. better for their governments generally if they could say that they had no connection with these companies in any financial way at all. People would be satisfied that decisions arrived at by members of governments were based on the merits of the case and were not influenced by their own personal interest in the project concerned. To say the least, it is regrettable that this atmosphere has been created by what might be only an indiscretion at the worst. 1 was Premier of Queensland for many years. I was Minister for Mines in that State for some years, too. I cannot recollect more than 1 case in which any mining company or any oil company offered me shares on ground floor conditions. When that 1 case arose - the company concerned was Ampol Petroleum Ltd - the Brisbane manager called on me and said that he had been instructed to reserve me a package of shares in Ampol Petroleum Ltd at a ground floor price. I thanked him and informed him that it was my policy not to hold a share in any company whilst I held public office. 1 carried out that policy to the best, of my ability within the limits of my capacity as head of the Queensland Government, f endeavoured to see that other members of my Cabinet followed suit. However, I do not claim that T succeeded because subsequent events have shown that I did not succeed. In fact, I did not succeed by a long stretch. Let me say again before I sit down that members of governments have not only a responsibility to the government of which they are a member but also to the people whom they represent. I think members of governments are, in their own interests, unwise and indiscreet to hold shares in public companies, particularly when they are engaged in considering the applications of those companies for one thing or another. When I was a young parliamentarian a very successful business man in Queensland - he died 12 months ago or more leaving a lot of money - said to me: 'I would sooner deal with your Government, although I do not support it, than with members of the Opposition for the reason that, in most cases, members of the Opposition are large shareholders in most of the big companies in this State whereas in your case, and in the case of most of your Ministers, you are not personally interested financially in any company and you reach your decisions uninfluenced by your own financial concern'. 
 Yes, but we had weeds in the garden. J do not want to go into that aspect, but if the honourable senator prompts and provokes me I shall. I will content myself by saying that the Bill before the Senate which ratifies in a sense an agreement reached between the Commonwealth and State governments is a good one. This measure will prove to be of immense value to industry in Queensland. I hope that the power station will succeed in serving many new industries in that State, all of which, as exporting industries, will prove to be of great economic value not only to Queensland but also to Australia as a whole. 
 In a few words I would like to say that I support the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  I too am opposed to sitting here till the early hours of the morning and furthermore I am in agreement with what  Senator Murphy  has said with regard to getting a working plan if it is at all possible. We should be able to work out some timetable as to the disposal of the Bills and from that we will bc able to gauge just how long it will take the Senate to deal with them. 
I move: 
That  the  debate  be  adjourned to a later  hour. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 What  Senator Wood  said is quite all right in theory, but from my experience the proposal is a cumbersome one. A Minister or a government should not be required to amend an Act of Parliament, by introducing a Bill, 10 make an alteration to the salary of an individual or individuals. Parliament does not surrender the right of discussing such matters. The salaries can be introduced or made by an executive minute or regulation. The executive minute or regulation has to be tabled in Parliament within a certain time. 
 I understand that that is so. lt has to be tabled while Parliament is sitting, lt is the subject of discussion. 
 I have heard the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  tabling regulations, ail of which are subject to scrutiny and discussion. I cannot see where the Parliament forfeits ils right to scrutinise any alteration made in this connection. I assure the Committee that a very cumbersome way of dealing with salaries is to amend the Act by making some minor alteration with regard to the salary of an under-Secretary officer, commissioner or somebody else. Whilst I admit that in the past week or so we have supported similar amendments, I have agreed with some measure of reluctance because I could nol see any bona fide reason for the alterations. I do nol desire to take from the Parliament its lights. 
I know from experience that a Minister has to have some room in which to move in such cases. He has  10  have a measure of discretion. He cannot bc running to Parliament for direction on every tiddly winking thing that comes before him. He is charged wilh he responsibility of administering the department. In certain circumstances there is no alternative but for him or her to make the decision on the matter. There has to be a measure of elasticity. That elasticity has to be provided in some form or another. If the salary is provided by an executive minute the Minister puts through an executive minute or regulation for the alteration. I understand that he tables it, which is subject to discussion. Anyone who desires to raise an objection to it has the opportunity to do so. 1 think that the matters contained in the amendments that we have carried could best bc dealt wilh by the adoption of the suggestion that some general principle be laid down. Then we will nol then be humbugged with these amendments to every piece of legislation that provides for the salary of an officer or officers. 
 I heartily congratulate the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who was responsible for introducing this small but very important Bill which provides for the establishment of the Australian Institute of Marine Science at Townsville in conjunction with the James Cook University of North Queensland. I hope it is the beginning of some great scientific work in the years to come. No better place exists at which the Institute could be established than Townsville or some other northern centre contiguous to the Great Barrier Reef and its adjacent islands. There is no dispute that what the Barrier Reef holds is scarcely known to our scientists, our marine biologists and others associated with marine life. Although action in this connection has been slow, the fact remains that we have now begun to encourage scientific research into marine life in that part of Australia's waters. When I, together with other members of the Senate Select Committee  on  Off-shore Petroleum Resources, was taking evidence in Townsville we were informed by people in the scientific world that the wealth of the Barrier Reef had been untapped. They expressed the view that there was more wealth other than oil to be obtained from the Barrier Reef than we could imagine. 
Little or nothing has been done  Until  now. That will be conceded. With the establishment of this Institute of Marine Science we hope that the work of our scientists will be rewarded with great results. It is a slow process indeed, and it is work which calls for great research. The fish life must provide an opportunity for scientists to examine their various types and to carry out research to determine whether the fish can be used other than as a good meal on a table. Further, the Institute could lead to the construction of a large aquarium at Townsville or some nearby centre. The mainland does not have an aquarium of any size. Green Island and some of the other islands each have an aquarium. The construction of an aquarium could be a prospect to which we could look forward. Botanical life among the marine growth on the Great Barrier Reef and around contiguous islands offers great prospects for scientific research. Chemicals and pharmaceutical side products could be obtained from the application of science to a lot of this marine growth on the Great Barrier Reef and off other parts of the Queensland coast. 
The Bill is only a beginning. I join with the previous speakers in wishing the attempts to do something in this field every success. We should encourage in every way possible the scientists who are interested in this type of work. I agree with  Senator Dittmer  that we cannot afford to be sparing if we are to get the results that we hope to achieve. We cannot do very much in any field unless we have the capital to do it. If we want the scientists to carry out effective and fruitful work, we have to encourage them by making available facilities and by recompensing them for the time they devote to their work. These men are not clock watchers. In the main, they are dedicated people. They go to the Reef, spend unlimited hours in the search for fish, shells and growth which they examine and on which they carry out experiments with a view to determining the commercial and other value of their experiments. I commend the Government for this progressive step. I trust that its efforts in this connection will be rewarded with great success. 
I move: 
As one who supported  Senator McClelland's  proposed amendment, I indicate that the amendment foreshadowed by the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  who represents the Minister for Health in this chamber, is acceptable to the Democratic Labor Party. I too commend the Government for having seen the justice of the proposed amendment. As a Queenslander who played a very important role in the establishment of a free hospital system in Queensland, I naturally was concerned - and had been for some time- to note that Queensland public hospitals were being treated less favourably than public hospitals in other States. In the main, patients in those hospitals were not subscribers . to a medical benefits society. That was understandable because Queenslanders had become accustomed to a free hospital system. They, particularly the aged and the middle aged, had no real reason to join a medical benefits society. I could not see the justice of discriminating against hospitals and paying them only 80 cents per patient per day as against the $2 per patient per day that was being paid to public hospitals in other parts of Australia. I have no reason to delay the debate other than to say that the decision of the Government to move the proposed amendment will meet with general approval throughout Queensland in particular and throughout Australia in general. I commend the foreshadowed proposed amendment to the Committee. 
 in reply  -  I wish to exercise my right of reply only to say a few words. The position has been covered very fully by my colleague  Senator Byrne  and by  Senator Young  who has just resumed his seat. I have had some experience of select committees, unlike other people who have become very enthusiastic about committee work but who have not been required to give up any recess period in order to do committee work - at least, to my knowledge, not while I have been here. AsI said in my initial speech on this matter, I am in favour of the principle of standing committees, butI am also responsible enough and conscious enough to know that first we have to examine just what facilities are available to us, what staff is available to us and what machinery is available to us- 
And what experience will teach us, as  Senator Young  interjects appropriately, so that we can implement the committee system. When I moved my original motion I warned the Senate about the danger of destroying the whole concept of the standing committee system because inadequate facilities, inadequate staff and the inexperience of many of us would not lead to an effective and a satisfactory result to our deliberations. I counselled the Senate to pause and to adopt a policy of gradualism - if I might use the term - in the introduction of a major departure from the parliamentary process of the Senate. From the decisions of the Senate tonight a number of committees that cannot be accommodated will be set up. The Senate has not sufficient numbers to man the committees, with the result that honourable senators will not be able to devote their lime and attention to the work of Parliament. 
If any honourable senator pauses for a moment and examines the position he will agree, in his sober moments, with what I say. I believe that to rush in with this scheme will destroy the whole concept of the standing committee system. I appeal to all honourable senators to put aside their feelings and prejudices. I know that some honourable senators could not vote for a 
Democratic Labor Party motion even if it were the best motion conceived by man. 
The honourable senator talks about a hypothetical situation. 1 have lived longer than he has. I have the power of assessment. I know that the bitterness in his guts would not allow him to vote for a motion put by a member of the DLP, irrespective of the value of the motion. If it were the best motion that emanated from man, the honourable senator could not support it. I ask the better class members of the Australian Labor Party to think about the motion. Those who have worked on committees with me will recognise and appreciate whatI say. 
Of course they have admitted it in private, particularly those who have been dedicated enough to attend regularly and not those who absent themselves frequently. The dedicated ones know how difficult it is to man these committees. Yet the Senate has provided for the setting up of committees that cannot be manned successfully and cannot be serviced successfully. However, it is the responsibility of the Senate. I have endeavoured to put forward what I believe is a practical commencement to the standing committee system. I leave the matter to the Senate to decide the issue. The responsibility for its failure will not be mine. 
Question put: 
That motion No. 3  (Senator Gairs)  as amended, be agreed to. 
1 rise to commend the Government for having acceded to the request of the State of Queensland for a grant of up to $ 12.8m. under the national water resources development programme, for the construction of a dam in the Bundaberg region of Queensland. This is a very rich part of Queensland, but of course, it is dependent on decent: rainfalls and a good underground water level. Unfortunately, in recent years people in the Bundaberg region have experienced a succession of droughts. Indeed, I think they have had 2 good seasons in about 7 or 8 years. The underground water level is lower now than it has been at any other time in the history of the region. So if there is an urgent need for water conservation and the construction of a dam anywhere, it is in this part of Queensland. 
It is true, as has been stated, that over a period of years, there has been great advocacy for a water conservation scheme in the Bundaberg area. Much literature has been disseminated, which has placed the facts of the case for such a scheme before the Queensland Parliament and indeed before members of the national Parliament. People in the Bundaberg region, who are engaged principally in growing sugar cane, have suffered considerably because of the number of droughts in the area. Of course, droughts are not confinedto them. At the present time people in thc western parts of Queensland, in the Longreach. Murraburra and Winton districts, are still in the throes of a drought. It is not only in this year that there has been a drought: these people have endured a succession of droughts over the last few years. I am sure that anybody who knows anything about the country and agricultural areas of Queensland or any other State would fully appreciatethe damaging effect a drough: has on industry in those areas. But when droughts are experienced in successive yearsthe damage is almost irreparable. It takes many years for an area to recover from the effects of successive droughts. 
Contrary to what some people might say about water conservation in Australia, particularly in the dry States of Queensland and South Australia, 1 believe that we cannot spend too much money on it in those areas where there is a water shortage provided it is an economic investment which will be of benefit to the maximum number of people. The reticulation of water and power are indispensable for any Slate or. for that mater any country which wantstodevelop. I think I may have said before that during the period that I was Premier of Queensland a delegation of 3 gentlemen from the World Bank paid a courtesy call on me in the course of which the leader of the delegation said to me: 'I know it is your Cabinet day today,  Mr Premier,  andI do not want to take up your time, but I am anxiousto know on what you spend your loan money'. I said: "Outside of what I am required to do in relation to the provision of schools, hospitals and other community essentials, I spend the money on these items in this order - water, power and transport, including road transport. You cannot settle people successfully unless they have a guaranteed water supply. Power is indispensable for the successful and efficient conduct of industry, whether it be primary or secondary. Having produced its product the industry must have road and other transport facilities to get its product to market.'  His  reply to me was: I commend you for your programme. Any government which spends its loan money on projects in that order is spending it on sound lines.'* 
I suppose other areas of Queensland are in need of water conservation projects, too', but projects in the far western parts of Queensland are a different proposition altogether. In this case the Burnett River can be utilised to some extent, but it is a different proposition altogether in the sheep and cattle districts of the western part of the State. However, I am satisfied that this scheme will prove to be a successful one. It will be of great benefit to a large number of the people who live in North and South Burnett areas. I have read with interest their case andit has my sympathy.I trust that the work will be expedited as much as possible and that there will not be any unwarranted delay in the completion of this project so that benefit will be derived from the scheme as early as possible. 
I have no opposition to the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Keeffe.  I should have thought that some information along the lines he has suggested in connection with Ibis project would have been included in the second reading speech of theMinister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who represents the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  inthis chamber. I believe that this information would be available to the Department of National Development. I think it could be taken for granted that this gram would not have been made to the State of Queensland unless a proper technical evaluation and a cost benefit analysis had been made. I do not think that there would be any objection to the Department making available to the Senate the information sought in the amendment. I commend the Government for making a grant of$1 2.8m to the Queensland Government for this water conservation scheme in the South Burnett district of Queensland. 
1 welcome this piece of legislation because it is evidence that at last an attempt is being made to utilise to some value the professional and technical officers associated with the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Authority, or at least what: is left of it. The work of those engaged under  Sir William  Hudson in carrying out that great project, the Snowy Mountains hydroelectric scheme, has won acclaim throughout the world. Over the last 20 years we in Australia have seen the Snowy Mountains scheme progress and we have seen the great success that has accompanied the efforts of the engineers and other professional men and the skilled and unskilled labour that have been engaged in that wonderful project. The Snowy Mountains scheme has been carried out by the Commonwealth in conjunction with and for the benefit of Victoria and New South Wales and, to a lesser extent, South Australia. We have seen a partnership with the Commonwealth taking a major part, particularly in the matter of finance. 
For a long time the people of Australia, who have been so proud of this great job of work, have been concerned about and most anxious to know what is to happen to this great organisation when the Snowy Mountains scheme is completed. Already we know that many members of the professional staff engaged on the scheme have moved out because the future of the Authority has been in doubt. The scheme has been going on for 20 years and in that time about $700m has been expended, lt is estimated that another 4 years will be required and another SI 00m will be needed to complete one of the biggest projects of the scheme. The people have been anxious, ] repeat, because they have come to recognise just how efficient this organisation has been and they have held the belief that it should be maintained, sustained and operated in many other spheres of Australian development. We concede that there would probably not be another scheme as large as the Snowy Mountains hydroelectric scheme to be undertaken in Australia. However we see in an organisation like this a great opportunity to carry out properly many works, not so great in magnitude but just as important in their own way, in the States and even beyond the boundaries of Australia. 
I am pleased to note that the activities of the Corporation will not be limited to Australia because, having had the opportunity of visiting South East Asian countries in recent times, I visualise many projects that could be undertaken there with advantage to those countries and which have the undeniable effect of lifting the living standards of the people there. The technological advice and know-how in providing water, irrigation, the reticulation of electric power and other engineering projects would be of immense value and assistance to the less developed countries of South Bast Asia. I look forward to seeing a lot of this work being done through the Corporation which is going to work in co-operation with the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. 
I notice from the Bill that in addition to the Corporation having a director and 2 assistant-directors - and I take it that these gentlemen will be professional men - there will be a consultative body of 6; 4 members appointed in relation to engineering work in Australia and elsewhere of whom 2 shall be representative of the engineering profession, and 2 members appointed in relation to engineering works outside Australia. lt occurred to me that if there are going to be 4 members and 2 of them could be men in the engineering profession outside Australia- 
 Two shall be professional men from outside Australia, but then there are to be appointed a further 2 in relation to engineering works outside Australia. It occurred to me that as this is an Australian corporation working in conjunction with the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Authority, the Australian representatives in this consultative body would be outnumbered by representatives from outside Australia. I agree with  Senator Willesee  that lbc Government must give an explanation for that. There can be no question that the setting up of the Corporation is a good move. It gives some hope for the retention of the professional staff - or at least some of them - who have been so successfully occupied for 20 years. Most of them have been there for that time. They will continue to be of service to the Commonwealth Government, to the State governments and to other people in need of their advice in designing and other works to be carried out. The functions of the Corporation will be:  the carrying out of investigations, and the furnishing of advice, in relation to water resources in Australia or elsewhere; the carrying out of investigations, and the furnishing of advice, in relation to - 
soils or rocks; or 
materials used in the construction of engineering works, in Australia or elsewhere. 
It will do all things associated with engineering projects and works, lt is good to know that this advice and service will be available to governmental, semi-governmental and private authorities. Whilst I applaud the introduction of this Bill, I am somewhat disturbed by the evident timidity, if I might say that, which can be read in the Bill. There is a timid approach to this new set-up of the Corporation, which seems to be restricted unduly in soma respects. It does not bear that tag of confidence. If the restrictions are observed, the Corporation will have a piecemeal and limited function. That is not advisable or desirable. 
Furthermore, I think there is evidence in the Bill of over solicitude for private consulting engineers. I can read into the Bill that the Government is more than normally concerned about the competition that might be created by this Corporation with private consulting engineers. I am reasonable enough to understand that concern up to a point, but I do not think that a government corporation such as this has any need to fear that it will be the means of putting out of work consulting engineers who are in private practice. If we continued that assumption a little further, the Government would not have dental hospitals because it would fear that they would put private dentists out of practice. People in private practice have to take their chances. If the Commonwealth Government intends to set up this Corporation to make this service available to people who need it - not free of charge, because it will be a business undertaking - I do not think that we have any need to apologise to anyone for people coming to this Corporation for advice, designs or for general assistance in any undertaking that they might have. 
 Yes, that is true. My fears and observations in those connections have been supported by the New South Wales Branch of the Association of Professional Engineers. It expresses fears along the same lines as I have done. The Group President says in a letter that he wrote to me: 
My first comment refers to the extraordinarily wide discretionary powers, regarding the acceptance of work by the Corporation, given to the Minister. In our view the proposed Act places him in very much the same situation as that of a day to day managing director and especially in section 17 (4.) (page 7) severely restricts the Corporation developing any further skills by the ordinary processes of development and technical growth. 
If that is so, I do not think that is a healthy and desirable setup for the commencement of a corporation of this kind. The letter continues: 
In addition to the above the Minister may call on the services of a Consultative Committee for the purpose of determining whether or not the Corporation should be allowed to be employed on a specific job - once again placing a restriction on the Corporation's management. In this context one can readily visualise the Corporation's officers hearing of the possibility of work in which it is interested, and which may indeed be in the national technical or trade interests that it be so interested, and proceeding to good faith to actively compete with other private enterprise corporations, and having reached a favoured position being placed in a most embarrassing situation by the Minister and/or the Consultative Committee. The effect on initiative and rapid independent action by the Corporation management in its active pursuit of business can be readily imagined. 
It seems to us, especially on overseas projects, that it is essential the Corporation not only be allowed but be directed to freely compete with other large well established consulting corporations. To do this successfully in the commercial sense it is essential to have the same day to day freedom of operation as they do. 
There is a further and, in our view, quite unnecessary restriction whereby within Australia no private firm may approach the Corporation for the purpose of carrying out an agreed function other than  through  a local private consultant (or consulting firm). We are aware that this particular restriction is due to very heavy lobbying by the local Consul tan  ls  Association who are quite unjustifiably afraid that the Authority in its new role will seriously interfere with the flow of work to  them. In point of fact the opposite is true, and in a considerable number of cases already we have given sub-contract Sow-on to local consultants where we have needed further assistance, for example,  01  felt that they were better able due to specialisation on smaller works to carry out a job than we were. This restriction is especially severe on mining firms who may wish to employ the Authority's expertise on such things as rock mechanics. The cost of these kind of jobs is usually small and to have to go through another consultant merely adds to this cost and reduces the efficiency of the consultation. 
The relevant section establishing the financial nature of the Corporation is Part 5, section 24, and we would ask you and your colleagues to read this particular paragraph carefully and ask yourselves the question, having regard to the restrictions discussed above, as to how any Corporation could possibly carry out these requirements, when the number of staff and the work to be done are all determined by the Minister. 
If those objections have any validity and if my reading of the Bill can be substantiated, I fear that the Bill will not be as efficacious and as helpful as it should be and, I believe, as it is intended to be. 
As I said when supporting the Bill at the outset, the Bill is a move in the right direction. It is something for which we have been arguing and which we have been urging for some time. In addition to the Australian Labor Party, the Australian Democratic Labor Party has been asking questions and speaking about the necessity to keep this organisation as intact as possible, having regard to the work available to be done. Now the Government has decided to set up the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation to carry on the work of the Snowy Mountains Authority. It is intended to utilise the specialised and professional knowledge and the expertise that is available to Australia and to people outside our boundaries. Do not let us destroy the effect of it all by being too restrictive and by being over-solicitous of private practitioners or outside consultants. If we do that, we will destroy the whole structure of this Corporation. We will destroy the purpose for which this Bill has been introduced. So, I make an appeal to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  to give the Senate some explanation on these points. They merit it. Unless he can satisfy the Senate that this is- 
It came from the Association of Professional Engineers, Australia (New South Wales Branch). 
Well, the letter was written on behalf of the professional officers. 
Well, those on whose behalf the letter is written could be associated with the Authority. That is why- 
Yes. Who would be better placed to examine this matter than those who are engaged by the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority? They are probably in a better position to assess and to judge the situation than engineers anywhere else because they have grown up with the organisation. They know what is going on. They know what the Authority can do. Let us hope that something can be done to allay the fears of the people who are interested in this organisation. These people are men of competence. They are willing to give service in Australia and even beyond the boundaries of this country. I believe that, in principle, the Bill is a good one. That is why I am concerned that in detail perhaps the good that it is intended to do will be destroyed by restrictions and a measure of timidity in approaching this new set-up. 
 In view of the very poor attendance in the chamber and the little interest that is being displayed in this important amendment to a piece of industrial legislation, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the question be now put. 
 I rise to speak against this measure and indicate that my colleagues of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and I will vote against the Bill. Before dealing with the Bill I want to make brief reference to the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  He stated what he believes to be Australian Labor Party policy with regard to money Bills. I am grateful to have an expression of opinion from him in this connection. But whilst I am grateful I am confused and puzzled, because his opinion differs so much from the expressed opinions of the leaders of his Party in another place. Furthermore, he failed to answer a question which I asked about why the ALP Opposition in the Senate, after convening a special sitting of the Senate to deal with postal charges, walked out of the Senate when the vital vote was about to be taken. The only explanation I could find outside this chamber was that the executive of the Austraiian Labor Party had directed the Opposition to act in such a way because it was contrary to the policy of the Party for the Senate to oppose money Bills. 
1 am talking about the parliamentary executive. 
Well, some members of your own Party. If I am forced to do so 1 will name them, reluctant as I may be to do so. 
Do not taunt me too much or 1 might name them and there will be a further split in your Party. 
Do not talk about wishful thinking. You get your inspirations in the sunshine on the beaches. 1 have here a document from the Prime Minister of the day, the late Harold Holt, lt is headed: 
P.M. No. 52/1967 
The document states: 
Increased charges by Governments are never popular, and it is not surprising that the Labor Party should attempt to turn the announced increases in postal and telephone rates lo its political advantage. Bui the decision lo use its numbers in Hie Senate lo defeat the Government on a substantia! financial mailer reveals the depth of political opportunism lo which the Labor Parly, under ils new leadership, will allow itself to sink. lt is one of the most firmly established principles of' British Parliamentary democracy that a House of review should not reject the financial decisions of the popular House. The terms of the Commonwealth Constitution reflect this principle. 
It has long been a cherished principle of Labor policy thai the Senate should not frustrate the financial policies of a Government possessing a majority support in the House of Representatives. 
 I will come to that. The document continues: 
This was consistently adhered lo by the former Leader of the ALP,  Mr Calwell;  it has been repeatedly emphasised by Labor's Shadow Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  and given clear expression by  Mr Whitlam  himself. He is on public record as having stated Labor's belief that Senate powers on financial matters should be only those of consultation. He made this  statement at a time when he was acting Leader of the Labor Party. Labor's attitude on this matter is carried to the point of maintaining as a plank of policy in its platform, the abolition of the Senate. 
There will be many staunch Labor supporters disgusted by this cynical abandonment of a longheld principle and this blatant exercise of political opportunism in the teeth of so many firm and clear public declarations of the past. If this is the new look in Labor leadership, then it is revealed as having no basis of consistency or principle nor any respect for historical democratic tradition and practice. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, when I have that statement by a Prime Minister and when I know from the records of the Parliament the attitude of  Mr Calwell  and  Mr Crean  you will realise why 1 am puzzled and perplexed. Only the other clay  Mr Crean  was reported to have declared himself against the Senate interfering in money Bills. Today  Senator Murphy  tells us that the policy has changed, lt is not a matter for me; it is a matter for the ALP lo determine what its policy is. But I elect to make reference lo it and show how inconsistent and how divided supporters of the ALP are on such a vital matter, i return to the Bill. Normally 1 could be relied upon to support the States in any claim they may make for financial aid from the Commonwealth. 1 have had the experience of attending Premiers Conferences and Australian Loan Council meetings. As a Premier 1 have begged for additional financial aid to enable my State to provide the things which the public wanted and to meet the demands for schools, hospitals and other public utilities, as well as to provide for adequate transport and all the other things a State government is expected to do. Frequently I was disappointed with the attitude of Prime Ministers and Commonwealth Treasurers. Sometimes we were made to feel that even the loan money we were given was a gift rather than a loan on which interest was to be paid. The Prime Ministers ar.d Treasurers stressed how much loan money they were making available. Of course, they did not state that the loan money had to be repaid by the people of the State to whom it was lent. 
I know all that background. I was very pleased to hear  Senator Lillico  declare himself on the side of the States. The representatives in this Senate of Tasmania and other mendicant States should support the States. Those States who have been supported by the Commonwealth Grants Commission must be on the side of the States. 1 remember very clearly when the States which were not receiving any aid from the Grants Commission were required to do unpopular things like increasing freight rates and fares, Thomas Playford as he was then -  Sir Thomas  now - failed to do the unpopular thing to obtain revenue and depended on the Grants Commission to come to his aid. Those things were done, but the States which accepted their responsibility were disadvantaged by comparison with others who were prepared to play the part of the mendicant.  Senator Lillico  said that this has gone on since the turn of the century or since federation. I can only speak about the period since the 1940s. I believe that all the wrangling and fighting that go on between the Commonwealth and the States emanate from uniform taxation. When the States had the responsibility of raising their own money - and that is what they had to do - there could never be a charge by anybody else that they were unwisely expending money collected and given to them by another authority. I do not accept the repeated statement that the States squander money which is made available to them by the Commonwealth. 
I believe that in the last 15 years the Commonwealth's attitude towards the States has been greatly improved and more generous than it was in my time as a Premier and as a Treasurer. This is particularly so in the fields of education and health, in the provision of libraries, science blocks and other big contributions made by the Commonwealth - and rightly so, too. But in the field of immigration the Commonwealth could do more. It contributes towards bringing people to Australia. It might spend some money on their temporary domicile in some hostel but for every person the Commonwealth brings here the responsibility is on the State to provide him with housing and employment and, if he is married, to provide his children with schooling. The State also has to provide him and his family with hospitalisation and all the other things that are required in the community life of the country. 
However, I merely want to say that in normal circumstances I am a supporter of the States in their claim for additional financial support. No-one can tell me that the Commonwealth is broke or that it is poor. I am waiting anxiously to see what the declared surplus will be this year. Let me read an extract from a statement made in Brisbane by the  President  of the Chamber of Commerce,  Mr Suggars: 
About 1954,  Sir Arthur  Fadden instituted the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve to provide for maturing war loans. Since then, $2,750m had been transferred to that reserve, quite apart from sinking funds. This shows that in the last 15 years there has been an average of $180m a year surplus. 
So the Commonwealth cannot claim to be broke or poor. 
It may do, but the States can only get loans from the Loan Council either here or somewhere else. 
Yes, the Commonwealth does not give it to the States. I have already gone to the trouble of emphasising that it does not give us that money. It only lends it to us and we have to pay it back, plus interest. I am on the side of the States but I do not approve of this method of assisting the States. We in the Democratic Labor Party have been saying for some time now that the time is near - indeed, the time is overdue - when there should be some reconsideration of the financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and States. I know that the Commonwealth has altered the formula governing the reimbursement of taxation revenue to the States several times since I left the Queensland Parliament. Those alterations were received by the States, but within 12 months they saw the deficiencies in them, and they wanted a further change. It is up to the States to get down to some sound thinking. This legislation we are considering is due to the impetuous decisions of some State 
Premiers- 
 And some reluctant decisions to impose taxation in a field without making sure of the validity of what they were doing. Ultimately this caught up with them and the High Court says they are out of bounds. 
 1 have no evidence of that. I know, and I depend on my memory for it, that the Prime Minister of the day warned the Premier of Victoria about what he had decided to do and appealed to him not to go on wilh it. 
 That is correct. The Prime Minister asked him not to go on with it, but he went on wilh it. 1 believe that that phase of the tax brought the adverse decision of the High Court against that State Government. Years ago all States had stamp duties on receipts. I remember that way back in the dark ages, when my father was a public servant and was paid monthly, stamp duty had to be taken out of his salary. Stamp duty generally was accepted by all States. But in 1967 all States but Queensland sharply raised their taxes. In Queensland the rate has remained much lower than the rates in the other States. With the introduction of this uniform tax collection the Queensland businessman, the Queensland manufacturer, the Queensland wholesaler, the Queensland retailer and the Queensland public will be required to pay at least 400% more than they are required to pay today. There is an exemption in the payment of stamp duty on receipts in Queensland: No tax at all is paid up to $20, and from $20 to $100 2c is payable. The proposal is to pay lc for every $10. That means 10c will be paid on $100. That shows the difference between what the Queensland taxpayer is paying today and what he will be required to pay. I am sure it is not hard for honourable senator to know why 1 am opposed to this legislation. 
I think it is unfair, it is vicious and it is inflationary. The producer of raw materials supplies the manufacturer and stamp duty is levied when payment is made. The manufacturer manufactures the raw material and when he is paid for it by the wholesaler the transaction is stamped again. The wholesaler sells to the retailer and again there is a stamp. Finally the retailer sells to the public. All that is passed on and the worker and the pensioner have their purchases of groceries and other essentials of life increased in price, lt is bad enough for governments, both Commonwealth and State, to stand flatfooted and do nothing about the ever-increasing cost of living in this country, but I expect them to prevent, when occasions like this arise, the imposition of taxation which is inflationary and unfair. The worker and the pensioner who buy goods will pay as much in stamp duty as the rich man will pay. They will pay by way of increased prices. 
Receipts duty in Queensland is collected in 2 forms - by monthly declarations and by adhesive stamp sales. In 1968-69 the total amount collected was just short of S2.5m, according to the report of the Auditor-General in Queensland. The Queensland Treasurer has said that he expects to get an extra $5m aud I think he has it down to the bare minimum. My authorities say he will get a great deal more than that. At one stage he said he thought he would be in a position to return some of thai revenue to the taxpayers of Queensland in other ways. I think that was the point that  Senator Greenwood  made - that this could be done. But since then  Mr Chalk,  the Liberal Treasurer of Queensland, has said he now finds that because of increased wages etc he will not be able to give any relief at all. That does not surprise me because Treasurers as a rule, when they get their hands on something, do not lei go very readily. This would be a great windfall for him. Instead of getting $2. 5m, even on his own figures, he will have a total of $7. 5m to $8m.  Mr Chalk  now says he doubts that he can compensate the taxpayers for the higher receipts tax that is to be collected. 
I acknowledge that the Commonwealth Government has no alternative but to levy a uniform tax; thai is provided for in the Constitution. I have no row with the Commonwealth in that connection. Indeed, the 
Commonwealth is merely filling the vacuum caused by the High Court decision and is collecting on behalf of the States, lt has no alternative but to strike a uniform tax. Queensland is the State that will be principally hurt. Because Queensland chose to apply a lower rate of tax the necessity for uniformity works solely to Queensland's disadvantage.  Mr Chalk  will say now that if the receipts duty had not been declared invalid he would have increased the tax in any case in his next Budget. That has already been suggested as coming from the State Treasurer. But  Mr Chalk  cannot get away from the fact that when he struck the tax that is being collected at the present time he believed that that was all he would require the people of Queensland to pay under that heading. This legislation will have a significant effect on companies with high turnovers but small profit margins and that means chiefly those dealing in groceries and other foodstuffs. Inevitably these companies will pass the tax on to the consumer. 
It is an economic fact that the poorer groups in the community - the pensioners and the low income large families - find it hard enough now to cope with food costs. This is a further reason why we oppose the legislation. The policy of the Democratic Labor Party is to help these people, not to further disadvantage them, which will be the effect of the Bills should they be passed. It is significant to note that if these Bills are defeated it will not be because of my action; it will be simply because the Senate is acting in its role as a States' House. We are here to represent the people of the State and that is what I am earnestly trying to do this afternoon. The States are jammed on this isue and if the Commonwealth desires to continue helping the States it will have to consider other ways and means of doing it. These Bi Ms affect one State in particular and all Queensland senators would be remiss in their duty if they did not oppose them. I have already indicated that the Commonwealth is not poor; it is not broke. It could help the States out without much difficulty. Let me quote some figures from a responsible gentleman in the business world in Brisbane in relation to these Bills. He said: 
Stamp duty in Queensland on receipts for cash received is at the moment 2c in $100 with an exemption on amounts up to $20. Some time ago other Australian States increased stamp duty on receipts to lc in $10 with no exemption, despite numerous protests from the business community. As you are aware, this was subsequently found invalid by the High Court in the case of payments made for the sale of goods. 
It is now proposed to make this a Federal Act whereby the Federal Government will act and collect on behalf of all States. This will mean that the Queensland Stamp Duty on receipts will be increased by 400% to lc in $10 dollars or 10c in $100. 
He agrees with what I have to say about this. He continued: 
It is a grossly unfair and unjust form of taxation as it is taxing essential merchandise. Distributors of these goods such as food and groceries, etc., are forced to operate on extremely fine margins. The only chance they have of continuing to operate is due to high volume of business which runs into tens of millions of dollars of turnover per annum. 
The letter indicates that those dealing in luxury lines, with a big margin and much less turnover, will not be so seriously affected as those who are dealing in essential merchandise. It goes on: 
To give you some idea of the extra cost incurred, let us take a business with a turnover of $50m per annum (and this is not uncommon in the food industry). Receipt duty tax payable would be $50,000 ($100m would be $100,000), whereas a business operating in luxury merchandise with a smaller turnover and higher margins is not greatly affected. If this is a form of indirect taxation, it is not consistent. In the case of Sales Tax, as you are aware, essential goods arc exempt whereas luxury goods are taxable. It must also be remembered that there is an additional cost involved as far as the collection and processing of this tax is concerned. 
The legislation has not the support of the Chambers of Manufactures, the Chambers of Commerce and all the other organisations that represent the business sections of the community. They are entitled to their point of view. We of the Democratic Labor Party are opposed to the legislation, not because we are opposed to the States receiving additional finance - I want to make that clear. We are opposed to this method of assisting the States financially because such taxation is grossly unfair. It is really vicious as far as Queensland is concerned, and it is inflationary. I hope that the legislation will be defeated and that the States and the Commonwealth, separately or conjointly, will be required to give further consideration to the ways and means of obtaining the revenue lost as a result of the High Court decision. I oppose the measure before the Senate. 
It will suffice for me to say that my colleagues and I are in full accord with the suggestion that some discussion between the leaders of the parties should take place as early as possible to arrive at some plan or programme for the better working of the Senate with regard to sitting times, days of sitting, length of speeches, and such like.  Senator Murphy,  at the conclusion of his speech, made a point regarding the elimination of unnecessary travelling time and travelling itself, which is a very desirable objective. We who have to travel so regularly between our home States or cities and Canberra are really unconscious of the effect and toll that air travel takes of each and every one of us. We take it for granted. We get on a plane and get off it. T think that in the ultimate it has an ill effect on us. I do not know whether it is imaginary on my part. 
That is so. I have the greatest sympathy for the Western Australian representatives who travel so far and for members such as  Mr Fulton. Mr Katter,  and others from the northern part of Queensland who have to travel long distances. If we can come to an arrangement which will eliminate to some degree this unnecessary travel we will have achieved something. I feel the Senate could work more satisfactorily and with better results without interfering with our democratic rights in this very important forum if there were a stricter application by the Chair to points of relevancy and tedious repetition. Two standing orders can be applied with very good effect. In debates here we have speakers one after another just repeating what the first fellow said. They go on and on. The other case is where honourable senators get away from the point altogether. No semblance of relevancy is contained in their speeches at all. I would like to see stricter application of the Standing Orders with regard to relevancy and tedious repetition. We might have better results. I rose to indicate the willingness and readiness of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to confer. We appreciate the necessity of doing something for the better working of the Senate. 
Much has been said and written about the Budget which is at present under discussion. That is not unusual and it is understandable why the national Budget, which is a statement of the financial position of the nation, should attract the interest that it does from our Press media and from the public generally. If we consider just what the Budget is and if we do so responsibly, we will recognise the difficulties associated with government and particularly the difficulty of the Treasurer and his officers in making an estimate of revenue and an estimate of our anticipated expenditure. The Budget also contains an account of the expenditure for the past year. Tt is a statement of how money appropriated in the previous year has been expended. 
Tonight I rise particularly to speak against the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  I do so particularly because of the criticism that has been levelled against the Government for the Budget which it has presented to Parliament and because of the failure of the amendment to be more positive and more constructive than it is. I believe that if we criticise the Budget-and later on I will express my views in that connection - we have a responsibility to put constructive ideas and suggestions as to what the Government could have done or should have done in the light of our financial position.  Senator Murphy's  amendment is nothing more than a pious resolution. It condemns the Budget and it enumerates the grounds on which the condemnation is based. But in no part of his amendment has  Senator Murphy  made any constructive suggestion or given any ideas as to what should have been done. It is very easy for anyone to say: 'This should have been done and that should have been .done', when he does not have the responsibility to see that those things are done and when he does not say from where the money should come to permit all those things to be done. 
As 1 say, the Budget is an account of the expenditure of money appropriated in the previous year and a statement of anticipated revenue and anticipated expenditure for the ensuing year. Where does any government get the funds to carry on the affairs of the nation or of the State as the case might be? Where does any government get the funds to carry out the administration of the various departments of State? In the main the funds come from income tax, customs duty, company tax, excise and sales tax. 
Indisputably the funds come from 'he pockets of the people, and that is why I say that when we talk about doing things we must be conscious of the fact that we have to have the funds to do them, and the funds have to be extracted from the public. Honourable senators have heard me repeatedly say that you cannot get more out of a pint pot than a pint. 
If it is trying to get more out of a pint pot than a pint, it is evidence that it is at least trying to stretch what it has over a wider field. As responsible citizens we budget domestically, and if we find that our income is not equal to what we propose to spend on food, clothing, rent, education and everything else, what do we do? We have to adopt one of two courses. One is to live above our means and owe everybody, traders and others, for the goods that they supply to us. The other course is to go to a bank, get an overdraft and go into debt in that fashion. Any responsible government will avoid, if at all possible, going into deficit Any  responsible government will endeavour to balance its budget and show at least some surplus at the end of the financial year. By doing that the government shows that it is responsible and that it is endeavouring to live within its means. Although few of us have had the ultimate responsibility of governing, the fact remains that as members of this chamber or of any other chamber of parliament we should at all times endeavour to adopt a responsible  attitude  in this regard. 
The fault 1 find with the Budget as presented on this occasion relates in the main to the distribution of what is or should have been available to the Government. No-one with any realism at all could have hoped that a government which can surrender $228m taxation revenue for the balance of this financial year, and S280m for a full financial year, would be in a position to be generous in fields in which we would have liked it to be generous. That is the crux of my condemnation or criticism of the Budget, and I will deal with it in more detail shortly. Of course, pensions always concern anyone who has any spark of humanity in him. But the fact remains that the pensioners have always been the forgotten section of the people, irrespective of what political party has been in power. A review of figures will show that in 1948-49 - the last year of office of a Labor government - the percentage of the base rate of pay represented by the pension was not very much different from what it is today. 
Not much. But in addition, we must be fair and concede that a pensioner today is in receipt of fringe benefits that were not available in 1948-49. The value of these benefits cannot be underestimated. Pharmaceutical and medical benefits are invaluable to aged people at the time in their lives when they are in the greatest need of medical advice and pharmaceutical preparations. The major feature of the 1970-71 Budget is the reduction in income tax on taxable incomes up to the $32,000 mark. As t said previously, this has been estimated to cost the Government $289m in a full financial year. Why did not the Government cut out the tax reduction at a figure much lower than $32,000? Why it undertook to make the reduction in one swoop I can understand to- some degree. If it had done it over 3 years the amount of the reduction in each year would have gone unnoticed and there would have been little political advantage gained. That is the only part of the Budget to disclose any political acumen. 
No-one could suggest for one moment that the present Budget was a windowdressing Budget. No-one could suggest against the Government that this is a Budget aimed at winning some political advantage. The only evidence in support of that is the fact that the Government very easily could have halted the tax reduction at a taxable income much lower than $32,000. Had this been done the Government would have been in a position to give the age pensioner an extra 50c and it would not have been subjected to the same amount of criticism as it has been since 18th August when the Budget statement was delivered by the Treasurer. It might have been in a position to give the family man something more than he has been given in this Budget. While I have been in this place I have seen submitted to the Parliament Budgets that provide nothing at all for pensioners. I believe that has happened on at least two occasions and perhaps on three occasions. 
In 1965 I graced this place with my presence. 
 Yes, and they have been badly treated over the years, as I shall prove to the Senate in a moment. With such massive reductions in revenue the Government has handicapped itself and rendered itself unable to provide more for those areas of poverty and inequality that exist in Australia. Those organisations which were so vociferous about tax cuts prior to the Budget should ponder the simple fact that they pressured the Government into making tax reductions. Like all other honourable senators no doubt, I have received letters from Public Service unions, teachers unions, bank officers organisations and others suggesting that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  was trying to avoid the promise that he made in October of last year. They had forgotten, or did not know, that the only appropriate time at which the Prime Minister could do anything with regard to a remission of taxation was at Budget time, that is, now. 
I, and I am sure many more people in Australia, would have been prepared to forgo tax cuts if something realistic had been done in the social services field, particularly with regard to the age pensioner and the family man who has always been the concern of the Party which I am privileged to lead. Let us consider the case of a family man who has a wife and 4 children and receives $60 per week. For him the tax cut means a reduction in tax of only 40c per week - the price of a packet of cigarettes or a couple of pots of beer. Compare the plight of this person with the situation of a man who has a wife and only 1 child and who earns $160 per week. The tax cut means a saving of $4.30 per week for him. But it is the first family man who requires more assistance, the family man with 4 or 5 children who is on a low income. 

 Mr Justice Nimmo, in opening Salvation Army week last July, pointed out that during the health insurance inquiry of 1968 he had discovered that, apart from pensioners, 250,000 low income families, representing 1 million persons, were living below a miserably low poverty line. These statistics prove the need for some improvement in child endowment payments on the lines advocated by the Democratic Labor Party because only increased child endowment will assist these persons. Tax cuts represent very little to them. I believe that the Commissioner of Taxation in assessing the returns submitted by these people should grant greater rebates for each of the children dependent upon them. 
There has been no child endowment increase since 1967 - prior to the last Senate election - and the previous increase was in 1964, which also was a Senate election year. On that basis I had hoped that child endowment would be increased this year. Let us hope that the Government will realise its reponsibility to this big section of our people. This year being a Senate election year, I hope that we will again see an increase in child endowment payments. But it is a pretty poor show if the only time they are increased is when there is an election. We should do away with this auction room approach to social service payments, particularly age pensions. This system is so obnoxious that it must be humiliating to the recipients of social service benefits to have their income debated from the hustings every election time and a bidding process engaged in, with one candidate saying: ff we are elected we will give you so much' and the other fellow saying: 'If we are elected we will give you more.' 
 It does not matter if there is an election every week; the principle does not change. That is why as a party we have advocated and moved on innumerable occasions that social service payments should be taken out of the field of political football. This responsibility should be entrusted to a tribunal of experts who would investigate all aspects and phases of the question, including matters such as wage increases which have taken place since the last increase in social services, cost of living increases and all the relevant factors, and then make a determination at regular intervals as to what the allowances should be. 
 'That would be a matter for the tribunal. What do we do for them? 
 We have an arbitration court, which Labor parties have fought for for years and years, to determine the working conditions, wages and salaries of those employed in industry. In spite of what some people might say, it can be said with safety that the arbitration system has been a great success. The only alternative that I see to arbitration is the law of the jungle. Conditions today might cause some union leaders to believe that now is a very propitious time to engage in some alternative scheme, but if the day comes when full employment does not obtain they will seek refuge in the arbitration court where they can hope to receive reasonable justice. It is for that reason that we keep plugging for arbitration. It surprises me that our proposal does not receive the support of members of the Senate, particularly those who are on my right but who are normally on my left. I feel that my colleagues in the Senate share my view that age pensioners should be assured of a better deal and should not have to come begging prior to elections or on the eve of a Budget being delivered. If my proposals were adopted the demonstrating and protesting by pensioners before a Budget is brought down would be eliminated and these people would not be subjected to such ignominy and humiliation. I put forward these proposals soon after I came into this chamber, but they were not accepted. I came to the conclusion that the Australian Labor Party was not sincere about its regard for the welfare of pensioners and that all its talk about them was pious waffle. The Labor Party was not prepared to support this genuine move by the Democratic Labor Party to take pension rates out of the field of politics. 
 1 will do it again if I can get a guarantee from the honourable senator and his colleagues that they will support my proposals so that they will be carried and the Government will have to give effect to them. It is needless for me to say that I. in common with my colleagues, was disappointed with the miserly 50c increase which was granted to pensioners, having regard to the increase which is taking place in the cost of living. The Government would be well advised to review this matter. There are no impediments to the Government making a further addition to the age pension. This would show the Government's good faith and its appreciation of the position. The 50c increase will hardly cover the increase in the price of consumer goods since the last increase in the age pension. Pensioners are about as badly off today under the present Liberal-Country Party Government as they were under a Labor government In 1947-48 - and I make only a passing reference to this - the single age pension represented 24 per cent of the average weekly earnings whereas today, according to my calculations, it represents 19.1 per cent. 
 That is covered because it is related to wages. Wages are determined to a great measure on the cost of living. If the honourable senator intends to interject he should bc logical and give me something to answer. What is the Government doing about the age pension rate? Although today it represents 19.1 per cent of the average weekly earnings a number of fringe benefits are provided now which were not provided by a Labor government. This makes age pensioners about as badly off under the present Liberal-Country Party Government as they were under a Labor government. They are still in a most unsatisfactory position. Why is it that the pensioners are always the ones who are forgotten, irrespective of who is in power? For the sake of emphasis 1 shall repeat that there is only one solution to the problem and it is the one which has been recommended by the Democratic Labor Party. 1 refer to the setting up of a tribunal to determine pension rates at regular periods. 
 One could go on suspecting until the end of time everything which is done by governments. Surely we have some faith in governments? Surely we have some faith in the integrity of the men whom we consider to be suitably qualified to put on a tribunal of this kind? Does anyone suggest for a moment that the men who are appointed to our judiciary are subjected to influences from outside sources? 1 know of governments which have been threatened because they refused to submit to outside pressures as to when legislation should be introduced and what it should do. The Government was expected to throw overboard all regard for the economy of the state and any responsible conduct just to answer the dictates and the directions of the people in control of trade unions and a political party. Is it any wonder that the honourable senator would suspect that a Treasury officer would suborn the gentlemen appointed to a tribunal? I suppose it is suggested from time to time that judges in the civil cases which come before our judiciary are got at by somebody or another. 1 turn now to defence. As most people will be aware, the Democratic Labor Party gives first priority to defence and foreign affairs. I have stated on many occasions that social and domestic policies - no matter how just or progressive - are not worth the paper on which they are written unless this country is guided by a realistic foreign policy and has adequate defences. Consequently, I am extremely disappointed by the likely fall in the defence expenditure from 4.6 per cent of the gross national product in 1967-68 to an estimated 3.3 per cent in 1970-71. The monetary increase in the proposed defence expenditure this year over the expenditure of last year does not disguise the fact that we will be spending a lesser percentage of the gross national product on defence. 
There has been a big fall in expenditure on naval construction - from $33.1 m in 1969-70 to $14.2m in 1970-71- at a time when we should be increasing our naval strength, particularly in view of the growing Russian activity in the Indian Ocean. One way to increase our naval strength is to lease an aircraft carrier from Great Britain, as I have suggested publicly on previous occasions. The London 'Economist' has spoken favourably of the Democratic Labor Party's proposal for the Australian Government to lease a British aircraft carrier for service in the Indian Ocean. If we cannot provide sufficient trained personnel to man the carrier we should consider taking over the British crew. In my opinion the Australian Government should give consideration to this proposal without delay. 
As I said in my original statement on the Budget, the rural crisis will not be alleviated by a relatively small measure of relief for wool growers and the promise of a look at the debts of farmers. I could not imagine that anyone in this chamber would begrudge anything the Government did in this Budget or at any other time to relieve the position facing primary producers today. Never in my memory have primary industries been in a worse position than they are in now. If one can take any notice of the authorities who paint a dismal picture of the future of our primary industries, with the exception of beef, it is very necessary that the Government keep a close watch on this matter. Indeed, it could with advantage adopt the proposal made some months ago by my Party, through my  deputy, Senator McManus,  to appoint a commission - a royal commission or any other commission - of qualified people to examine the position of our primary industries with a view to determining what is the best way for governments. State and Commonwealth, to assist them. The Democratic Labor Party contends that a complete and immediate examination is required of the whole field of rural industry. That is why we put forward our proposal. Any approach to this problem in a piecemeal fashion will get us nowhere. It would be only a palliative and we could not afford to carry on for very long in that manner. For many decades this country has depended on the wool industry and other primary industries. This dependence will continue in spite of the opinion of some people who believe that because there is a boom in the mineral field the plight of the primary industries should be disregarded. The position of many of these people because of drought, lack of markets kets and a fall in prices is, to say the least, tragic. In many cases they have been compelled to walk off their properties seeking employment in coastal towns and provincial cities. They have very little hope of ever going back to their properties because of the debt which is hanging around their necks. 
 It is just too silly to suggest that any government is the cause of the plight. It is just plain silly because an elementary examination of the position will show the difficulties associated with primary industries. As announced by  Senator McManus  the Democratic Labor Party was surprised at the Government's announced attempt to reintroduce the receipts duty legislation.  Senator McManus  in his speech during my absence has indicated that the DLP does not propose to support a Bill similar to that which was defeated in this place on 18th June - as recently as that. The Treasurer has said that the receipts duty is embodied or embraced in the Budget. Some State Treasurers and particularly  Mr Chalk  the Liberal Treasurer for Queensland has said that he cannot understand the attitude of the DLP in opposing the Commonwealth legislation on receipt tax. Never have I been one to block a State from receiving more money from the Commonwealth. Indeed, for many years I had to fight to obtain as much money as I did, and that was inadequate. 
I urn not opposed to the Commonwealth's giving the States financial aid but I and my colleagues are opposed to aid being given by the method provided in the States receipts duty proposal. Queensland is in a unique position. Under the State receipts tax legislation it was receiving just over $2.2m per annum. The legislation provided for an exemption from duty of amounts up to $20 and then 2c for every $100 or part thereof. Under the proposed tax there is no exemption and the duty will be 10c in every $100 or part thereof. That is 5 times as much tax as is being collected today.  Mr Chalk,  very naturally, is a Treasurer and he has his greedy hands out looking for that additional income just as he greedily had his hands out for the Comalco shares. He is not concerned about the effect this tax will have on the struggling farmer, the grazier and other people. I am sure he has not examined the proposed tax because my advisers tell me that it will mean at least an additional 50c per week to the average family in increased cost of living. 

 Mr Chalk has said he cannot understand why the DLP is opposed to the duty. If he examined the legislation he would know why. When the other States were introducing this iniquitous, cumulative inflationary legislation he was asked whether there was to be any increase in taxation. He said: No. Queensland is prosperous because of the great boom in the mineral world.' In a few years he finds himself in need of this duty so he is pretty hard to follow. He is not concerned about the effect this will have on the general public, particularly those who are not in a position to pay. The DLP has indicated through  Senator McManus  that it is prepared to vote for  a  Bill validating the collection of this tax up to 1st October. The DLP has been criticised by certain sections of the Press as being inconsistent for saying that. Let me assure yOu,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that this is not any inconsistency on our part. This represents a proper realisation of what is involved. A lot of this money has been collected. The States collected it in good faith until the High Court declared that it was ultra vires their powers. 
What is the position now? If the collection is not validated the money will have to be refunded. Just imagine the amount that would be involved up to 1st October. 
Just imagine the paper work and the cost which would be involved in trying to refund this money to those who have paid. Others, guided by the High Court, have just refused to pay. It is a regrettable position but as practical people we should not prevent the validation of what has been done up to now. If some of those Press men who wrote the articles to which I have referred had had any experience of administration they might appreciate what is involved. It would require a staff of a few hundred people. Their experience of administration of the clerical and financial side would not give them any great knowledge of what would be involved in a matter like this which is nationwide. If we were to agree to this receipts tax. as far as Queensland is concerned it would mean at least a 400 per cent increase in duty. In the field of taxation it would take in a greater number of people. It would mean that every cash transaction would have to be receipted. If one went to a doctor and paid him S3. 1.0 for a visit there and then he would have to give a stamped receipt. 
But it is not stamped. That is the thing. A doctor can give a hundred receipts but this does not matter until they have to be stamped. Now honourable senators can understand why the DLP is opposed to the duty. If  Mr Chalk  is listening perhaps he might understand too. lt is apparent to me that he has only 1 mind on this and that is to obtain a 400 per cent increase in his income by this means behind the skirts of the Commonwealth. He himself did not see fit to increase the lax. I am not saying he should have - not at all. But he now hopes to receive the increase and then could easily say: 'Well, I had to take it because the Commonwealth was collecting it and it had to treat each State similarly under the Commonwealth Constitution.' If  Mr Chalk  thinks he is pulling any wool over my eyes he has another think coming. I think I have made it clear why we oppose the proposal and why we will support a Bill validating the tax to 1st October.  Senator McManus  has already foreshadowed the general terms of an amendment which we will propose because, as 1 have said, we are not satisfied with the amendment sub mitted by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy). 
I always lay my cards on the table. There is nothing underground about me. 
Never win? I must win; 1 am here. Anything that I have won I have won democratically, honestly and decently, and that is something to be able to claim. I trust that the amendment which I will submit after  Senator Murphy's  amendment has been disposed of will be supported by the Australian Labor Party. That is unlikely but in these days of surprises anything can happen. From what we have been reading in the newspapers of recent weeks a lot of changes seem to be taking place with people changing foot and changing ground. 
I should imagine that a lot of people are worrying about it, no-one more than those who are perpetrating it. I conclude by saying that no-one has been happy with this dull, unattractive and disappointing Budget. Those who are least happy are the pensioners and the family man. By making massive cuts in taxation the Government has handicapped itself in the provision of real relief where relief is needed. Those pressure merchants who conducted the tax cut campaign prior to the presentation of the Budget should pause a while to consider whether by their actions they have severely disadvantaged many who are less fortunate than themselves. Some of those who wrote letters and distributed circulars seeking a reduction in taxes are now writing to us saying how unhappy and dissatisfied they are with the treatment that has been meted out to the pensioners and at the fact that insufficient funds have been made available for education and other purposes. Let them be realistic and remember that irrespective of the political colour of the government in office, it can only get a pint out of a pint pot and it can distribute only what it collects. If it wants any more there is only one way in which it can get it and that is by increased taxes. Surely none of us wants that. 
 The Senate having disposed of the amendment submitted by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  I now move the following amendment which was foreshadowed by my colleague  Senator McManus  on 3rd September and by myself last evening: 
At the end of motion, add 'but the Senate is of the opinion that: 
the defence vote still does not adequately meet the requirements for Australian defence and security demanded according to the Government's own Budget statement by 'the changes occurring in international relationships especially as they affect South East Asia and Australia, and of developing defence policies which will serve us in the strategic developments of the future'; 
there is inadequate provision to make the armed forces a career, encourage voluntary enlistment, and arrest the alarming rate of resignations by improved conditions of engagement and service; 
the Budget merely plugs holes in social services and makes no provision for a comprehensive national insurance scheme or for  necessary aid for family life through better child endowment, maternity allowances, housing, health and education assistance; 
the Budget again fails to remove pensions from the area of politics by setting up an independent tribunal of experts to determine pension rates; 
the Budget fails to properly compensate pensioners for cost of living increases; 
the Budget fails to ameliorate in a substantial way the restrictive operation of the means test; 
while offering limited short term relief to primary producers, the Budget fails to provide for the necessary examination of the whole structure of rural industry by an expert commission which could advise the Government on the application of fundamental long term remedies; 
the Budget offers no adequate provision for decentralisation; and 
the Budget fails to ensure that the tax burden is equitably distributed over the community by action to prevent evaders employing legal technicalities to avoid their responsibility'. 
I content myself with moving that amendment. I do not wish to exercise my right to speak to it. 
Being a realist, T rise with very little hope that anything I might say in condemnation of the provisions for social services in the Budget will cause the Government to make any alteration. Furthermore, I do not propose to speak at any great length for the reason that in the debate on the Budget papers 1 addressed myself to the provisions of the Budget. I took the opportunity of making protestations and voicing condemnation for myself and for my colleagues in the Democratic Labor Party of the inadequacy of increases paid under the heading of social services. I believe that in this respect we have the support of the great bulk of the people of Australia who have any sense or any idea of humanitarianism. 
When we speak of pensioners we are speaking of the aged, the invalid, the widows, the deserted wives and others. 
They are all In receipt of a Commonwealth allowance. As far as the aged are concerned, in the main they are people who have contributed much to building up this nation. They have worked hard in years when remuneration and the standard of living were poor. Their return for their labour was little or nothing. They reared big families to whom they gave all that they had, and they have never had a favourable opportunity of accumulating any money or wealth at all. The result was that when they reached the age of 65 and they were no longer wanted by their employers in the main, they were turned out on an age pension. If we just reflect for a moment or two over the history of this country we realise that from the turn of the century until the First World War we always had a big percentage of unemployed. Our standard of living was poor, 1 repeat. The First World War began in 1914 and carried on until 1918, and for about 10 years thereafter we had a measure of prosperity. lt was not of a particularly high standard, and we still had an army of unemployed in our community. 
Then we went through a depression which brought further unemployment and privation, and starvation in many cases. Men of industry, men of qualifications, men of education, were required to work on roads for 2 or 3 days a week, according to the number of their dependants. Single men were required to walk the roads from one point to another to get 6s worth of rations. Not until the Second World War broke out and since its conclusion have this country and its people enjoyed any standard of living to speak of. This has been the most prosperous period, I suppose, in our lives or in the history of this country since the turn of the century. So in the main most of these pensioners are men and women who have blazed the trail, worked hard for very little and never had an opportunity of accumulating any money. If they bought a house or a cottage it would be as much as they have. When they reach the age of retirement we say: 'All you are worth, particularly today, is $15.50.' 1 repeat what I said the other night: Not at any time in our political history have pensioners been properly treated by governments, irrespective of their political colour. They have been the forgotten people. We agree without equivocation that the pension increase is inadequate and that the pensions being paid today are inadequate having regard to costs and everything else. Immediately pensions are increased rents go up. The landlord has the case that rates have increased and that his maintenance costs have gone up because of increased wages and other things, that he is required to increase the rents to enable him to pay the rates and to meet the other commitments which, as a landlord, he is required to meet to keep the premises in decent order and to comply with local government requirements. 
I deplore the suggestion made by  Senator Keeffe  in the course of his remarks today that deserted wives and widows found it impossible to live on the pension or subsidies that they were receiving and were required to lend their bodies in order to be able to keep themselves and those dependent upon them. I do not agree that that is the case.  Senator Keeffe  has grievously insulted all those women who are in receipt of assistance and aid. 
To suggest that a section of them would do so casts an aspersion on all of them. To suggest that any of them lend their bodies in prostitution for money to supplement what the Government pays them in allowance is to cast an aspersion on every woman who is in receipt of aid or a pension. It is one thing to be enthusiastic about the question of pensions and to try to help people to gain more, but it is another thing to suggest that any one of these women would lend her body, 1 or 2 nights a week, as he said, to supplement her income from the Commonwealth. To make a statement such as that is most unfair, most unjust and irresponsible, and it is a grave reflection on those women throughout Australia who are receiving aid under the social services vote. 
We can stress the desperation without suggesting immorality. I know how pensioners feel when their incomes are being discussed. As I said the other night, they are humiliated by the ignominy associated with these public discussions of what they are receiving from the Government, and which is not a charity but a right to which as taxpayers they contributed in the active periods of their lives. Those who have any measure of pride recoil to think that their income is periodically put in the auction room, as it were, and their conditions, their living and everything else debated in public. That is why the party which I am' privileged to lead has repeatedly asked that the question of pensions be taken out of the field of politics, where it has been made into a political football, and that the responsibility for determining this vital question be handed over to an independent tribunal of men who have some knowledge of social services and a humanitarian outlook, a tribunal which would have regard to wage increases, cost of living increases and all the other vital factors in arriving at a proper determination of what is a just pension for these people who are our responsibility. I am sure that tribunal could do this and do it well. 
Reference has been made to means tests and fringe benefits. Dealing first with means tests, being a realist I cannot imagine that the means test would be abolished overnight. I can understand the feelings of people who, because of their provident outlook on life, have contributed to superannuation schemes and such like and have discovered that all they have done is to relieve the Commonwealth Government of a financial responsibility to them. I have cited the case - I know many - of the provident fellow who has contributed to a superannuation scheme to secure his future whereas another worker has taken out just the bare compulsory unit or two to qualify for the scheme and, at the end of his working life, has received the pension or a good part of it. The first fellow has insured himself out of the pension field, yet bis income would not be very much more than a pensioner would get from his pension and what he can earn, if he has the health to earn something. 
Why on earth can we not liberalise the pension scheme sufficiently to take in those borderline cases? Furthermore, why can we not give to those people some of the fringe benefits, particularly the medical and pharmaceutical benefits, which are invaluable to an ageing couple? With the aid of the fringe benefits they could be relieved of the responsibility and worry of doctors' bills and chemists' bills. If they fall ill they can go to a doctor or send for him without  the worry of having to pay. Many of these old people who do not qualify for the pension because their income is a little more than what is allowed need a doctor or chemist but cannot afford them. Why do we not extend that fringe benefit in particular to that class of person? The means test is a penalty on thrift. Those who are provident, careful and thrifty are penalised by comparison with the fellow who in many cases squanders his money and finishes up with nothing - not even with proper superannuation or insurance. 
 I have already explained the situation. I know of cases, particularly of public servants, who have neither chick nor child but only themselves and their wives and who finish up with the bare compulsory units of superannuation. Compare the situation of those people with that of a man with 3 or 4 children whom he had educated and who, because he has contributed to a superannuation scheme at. the same time as he has paid taxation, and has  made  sacrifices to do it, is debarred from the pension. That is not fair play and it is not right. I think the means test should be liberalised to a greater extent than it has been. I am not one who believes that it can be abolished overnight. 1 am sure that some people on big salaries and incomes would not be interested in the abolition of the means test. In fact they probably would be embarrassed from the income tax point of view if they were to receive a pension. 
I think that all the social service increases provided for in the Budget, whether it is the age pension, the invalid pension - small as it is - or the TPI pension which comes under another Bill, should be made retrospective to 1st July. After all, that is the beginning of the new financial year. I am sure that. would not. break the Treasury and at least it would put the pensions on a proper basis. I urge the Government to give serious consideration to this proposal. 1 believe it is some thing the Government could do without disturbing the equilibrium of the economy of the country. 
I have considered the amendment moved by  Senator Fitzgerald.  Whilst it agrees with what I have said tonight and also on a former occasion I propose to move an amendment to it to add a paragraph (5). I move: 
At me end of proposed amendment add - "(5) rates pf pensions should be determined by an independent tribunal or committee of experts on social services including pensioner representation.' 
This is not a new exercise for the Democratic Labor Party. Indeed we have been hammering away at this for 6 years or more. For the record let me say that the DLP has moved this amendment in the Senate on six previous occasions. On every occasion the Australian Labor Party has voted with the Government to defeat the amendment. The late  Senator Cole  moved the amendment in 1955, 1957, 1959, 1960 and 1963. Soon after my election to the Senate I moved a similar amendment on 30th September 1965. Once again the ALP joined with the Government to defeat the amendment. I propose to delve into the debates on these past occasions when the DLP amendment came before the Senate to demonstrate the weak excuses advanced by the Government and the ALP in opposition to our amendment. Running through the various debates has been an extreme pessimism on the part of the ALP. On 29tb September 1959 the former Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator McKenna,  flatly declared: 'Nothing will ever take pensions out of politics.' Such an approach condemns pensioners to perpetual acceptance of the crumbs handed out at Budget or election time by governments, irrespective of their political colour. That is the history of the pension scheme. Tt ensures that pensions will always remain in the auction room. We of the Democratic Labor Party adopt a more optimistic approach in the hope that one day pensions will be removed from politics. We believe the independent tribunal is an admirable way of removing pensions from politics. In 1960  Senator Willesee  stated: 
. before I would agree to the formation of such a body as has been advocated by  Senator Cole,  I would require an assurance that it would be independent and more free from interference by ' the Commonwealth Government than the present Commonwealth Arbitration Commission. 1 do not know what prompted  Senator Willesee  to claim then that the Arbitration Commission was not independent. I would be surprised if he holds the same view today for I am not aware that the Arbitration Commission is regarded as anything less than independent. 
In my time I have had a lot to do with the arbitration courts. I do not know of any case - irrespective of whether or not the Government welcomed an increase in wages which would disturb the budgetary position - in which the Government, as an employer, has not faithfully observed the decision of the court in every respect. That is what one would expect it to do, the same as any other employer. 1 do not think it is very much of a compliment to those whom we appoint to the exalted position of commissioners and judges of our arbitration courts to suggest that they can be got at or that they are influenced by statements from parliamentarians or others on matters which are before the courts. I should like to think that they are big enough and independent enough in mind to act as they find on the evidence submitted to them. 
I do think it. 
I follow events just as closely as the honourable senator, and perhaps more closely. I do not read reports just to suit my own ideas and views. I read them as they go out through the media of publicity. Does anyone suggest or entertain the idea that judges in civil actions, or even in criminal cases, would listen to an approach made in cases over which they were presiding? Let us have some faith in people whom we select and appoint to these exalted positions. Whatever may have been  Senator Willesee's  reasoning then, his assertion illustrates the way in which the ALP has had to scratch around to find arguments to justify its joining with the Government to defeat the DLP policy or proposal. In 1963 a similarly weak argument was advanced by  Senator Sir Wiliam 
Spooner, since deceased, when he attempted to justify Government opposition to the DLP proposal by stating that the Department of Social Services already had a research section to determine all the relevant information. Of course we know it has such a section. It has all the facilities to determine this information. But did its judgment, assessment or finding ever see the light of day? Of course not. The information is passed on to the Government and the Government ultimately decides in spite of the results of the research. 
It makes a political decision. The Department may well have such a section but what does the public know of its findings? Does it receive information from the pensioners themselves? I, and I am sure most Australians, would prefer the cards to be placed on the table in public view and all turned up. I believe I have given sufficient examples to prove that the ALP and the Government are not sincere on the question of taking pensions out of politics. When a genuine attempt is made by the DLP to take pensions out of the political field through the establishment of an independent tribunal, the Government and the ALP scrape around the bottom of the barrel to find weak excuses for their opposition. 
Sometimes I feel that both the major political parties want to retain pensions in the political field as a means of attracting support at election time, when they might use them as a carrot for the less thinking section of our people, particularly the aged and the sick who are desperately in need of additional funds and will vote irrespective of what other policy items might be on the platform or in the policy speeches of the respective leaders. They will say: *I am going to vote for him because he is going to give me another $2 whereas the other fellow is going to give me only $1.' I suppose that is a sound and logical reason from that individual's point of view but in voting along that line he often does the country a lot of disservice. Perhaps he does himself disservice in the long run. 
I promised at the outset not to detain the Senate unduly because I have spoken before about social services. However, I would like to see the means test liberally improved. I would like to see the fringe benefits extended to those people just outside the pension eligibility provisions. I would like to see some of our municipal bodies, particularly those controlled by the Australian Labor Party, give greater consideration to pensioners in regard to rates. Many municipal bodies extend rate rebates only to persons in receipt of full pensions and deny it to those in receipt of a part pension. 
 Well, I suppose that might be a statement of fact about some of- them. Yet the fact remains that it is not of much use for ALP people to profess to have so much interest in pensioners when ALP controlled municipalities do not demonstrate sonic concern about them by doing a little more than they now do. They should not be so hide bound. They should set the example. 
 If the honourable senator had been listening he would have heard me say that municipal bodies deny that rebate to partial pensioners; people who do not receive a full pension do noi enjoy the rebate. This is cutting it a bit thin, I think, because to all intents and purposes they are pensioners. Notwithstanding the fact that I rose tonight with very little hope of achieving anything or of being able to do anything to remedy social service matters about which the Democratic Labor Party complains, I sincerely appeal to the Government to keep a very close eye on the cost of living and rents particularly as they affect pensioners. I hope the Government will not be too proud or loo reluctant, if things worsen, to make an interim increase, perhaps at the end of the year, rather than wait until the end of a year. 
There is no insurmountable difficulty or impediment to this action being taken, lt can be done. J hope the Government will see to it that the position of the pensioner does not worsen. If at all possible the ( Government should, improve the position  of pensioners immediately there is any increase in the cost of living. The Democratic Labor Party believes that if a tribunal is not set up there should be some legislation to provide for an automatic increase in the pension as the base rate is increased. The Government can do this. It was done in Queensland during my time as Treasurer of that State in spite of protests from public servants that it could not be done. This was in connection with workers compensation. Instead of having to alter the schedule of payments under the workers compensation legislation there each time the basic wage rose, I insisted that a formula be worked out so that each time there was an increase in the basic wage the schedules were proportionately and relatively increased, lt can be done. Where there is a will there is a way. As wages rise so should pensions rise. Pensioners should not be disadvantaged. Invariably the basic wage increases increase the cost of living. The court tries to reimburse the worker because of the increased cost of living. The pensioner also should have a system by which he will not be disadvantages but will receive an increase in pension when there is evidence of an increase in the cost of living. 

 - Mr President, all I desire to say about the question I submitted to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport is that in the light of his reply to me I am prepared to put the question on notice. Perhaps I should have done that in the first place. I have a further question to ask the same Minister but because of its length I shall put it also on notice. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is it a fact that the Howard Smith Industries Pty Ltd oil/ bulk ore ship, the MV 'Howard Smith' was taken to Singapore on 14th August 1970 for normal annual survey and repair work? Because this was not an emergency job and could have been performed efficiently at Brisbane does the Minister agree that it represents a by-passing of first class ship repair and docking facilities at Brisbane for Australian flag ships? Does the Minister have any power of direction in this matter especially when Australian ship repair trades are desperately seeking work? 
T rise to indicate on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party which 1 lead that we support the Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in his announced programme for this week. We must at all times recognise that Government Business takes precedence over General Business when the circumstances are such as we find today. A very important piece of legislation has to he dealt with, ft is imperative that it be dealt with and decided upon by the Senate. In the event of its being passed it must receive the royal assent for the benefits to be operative from 1st October and for the beneficiaries to receive any additional payments for which the Bill provides. 1 am just as strong a stickler for the rights of members of this chamber as is any other senator. But it is an undeniable fact that the Government - and only the Government - has the prerogative of determining the business sheet in the light of the circumstances as it sees them. It is true that the Leader of any Government will have consultation with the Leader of the Opposition or the leaders of other parties in the chamber with  a  view to arriving at an amicable arrangement. But this Bill must be dealt with and finalised by this chamber before the weekend. in any case, if the Government's plan is given effect the Democratic Labor Party will be making the sacrifice because the first item under the heading of General Business is a motion in the name of  Senator Byrne  of the Democratic Labor Party. That motion deals with defence. That is  a  very important matter and one which, as all honourable senators know, has occupied the interest of the Democratic Labor Party since it was first established. We of the Democratic Labor Party put the matter of defence and foreign affairs very high on the list of priorities in our platform. We would very much like to have the opportunity to discuss this important question but 'first things first' is a very good motto. We are prepared to defer the discussion on this motion by  Senator Byrne  until such time as we deal with the more important questions that call for our attention. 
We will defend Australia and we will discuss this motion when an opportunity offers. I just want to make it clear that my colleagues and I support the Government in its proposal regarding the programme of work for the Senate. It is not of much value to complain about the delay in  a  Bill reaching this chamber. The Leader of the Government in this place is not responsible in any way for the progress of Bills from another place to the Senate. He cannot deal with them until they reach here,  and  I suppose they reach here only after they have been dealt with in the other place. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- The sitting of the Senate is suspended until 8 p.m. The bells will ring at 2.10 p.m. for the sittings of the Estimates Committees. 
Sitting suspended from 12.46 to 8 p.m. 
I now desire formally to move the amendment that I foreshadowed in the course of my speech on these 2 Bills. I move: 
At end of motion add and that in the opinion of the Senate a Joint Select Committee should be appointed to inquire into the desirability and practicability of removing the Australian Post Office from the administrative influence of the Public Service Board and of establishing a public corporation to manage the business of the Post Office.' 
It is not necessary for me to say any more than I have said already in support of this proposal. In 1967 I elaborated to some extent on this project and today I have had the opportunity to make brief reference to it. I content myself with those remarks. 
The two Bills that we are currently debating concern the PostmasterGeneral's Department, the largest department of the Crown. As has already been stated, it employs about 106,000 people. 1 rise to oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Willesee.  1 am not opposed to all of the amendment but I am opposed to that part of it which seeks the withdrawal of the Bill. 1 am opposed to that section of the amendment because, as one who always endeavours to be responsible on matters that come before the Senate, I cannot see that any good purpose could be served by the withdrawal of this Bill for an indefinite period while a Joint Select Commitee in the words of the amendment inquired into the desirability and practicability of removing the Australian Post Office from the administrative influence of the Public Service Board and of establishing a public corporation to manage the business of the Post Office. 
Of course, lbc latter portion of the amendment readily receives the support of my colleagues and myself. Honourable senators will recollect that in 1967 I raised this matter and dealt with it rather extensively on information that I sought and obtained with regard to the changes that had been taking place in the postal services of the United Kingdom. At that time I advocated that the revenues of the Postmaster-General's Department be put into trust and not into Consolidated Revenue so that the Department would not have to go to the Treasury every time it wanted an appropriation to carry on its services. I am pleased that the Government recognised the value of my suggestion at that time and, to some extent anyway, adopted the trust system. When speaking on these Bills yesterday,  Senator Wilkinson  made the point which I believe is worthy of consideration, that until the Postal Department has full and complete control over its finances and over loans and other phases of the administration, it cannot be said to be completely removed from Treasury influence. 
In 1967 1 advocated the removal of the employees of the Postmaster-General's Department or the Department as a whole from the influence of the Public Service Board and proposed that it be changed into a public corporation or a statutory body. 1 am delighted that the Australian Labor Party has seen the value and the merit of the case that I made 3 years ago. 
 My friend in the ALP says: 'It has been our policy for years.' The members of that Party might explain then why 1 was unable to get the number of senators required by the Standing Orders to support me when 1 sought leave to move a motion with a view to having this subject discussed as a matter of urgency. 
 Yes. I could not get support from the Australian Labor Party to have this matter discussed on that occasion, and the result was that no discussion took place. So I feel 1 am entitled to claim that there was no evidence of any support or any great interest in this question which is now the major subject of the amendment moved by  Senator Willesee.  However, I am delighted that the ALP is commencing to think that there might be some merit in my suggestion. I agree that before any decision is made it is prudent that we should examine this matter and consider its desirability and practicability, to use the words of  Senator Willesee's  amendment. However, I am opposed to the withdrawal of the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill because 1 cannot see that any good purpose would be achieved by doing so at this stage. 
This Bill has many features. Firstly, it provides for increased postal and telegraph rales. Secondly, it deals with new charges in relation to overseas telecommunications. I can find fault with the Bill, particularly in regard to the postal and telegraph charges, because I believe that the increases are too savage. They are too great. I. realise, as any commonsense person would realise, that large increases in overhead costs compel one to increase the cost of services. It- has been stated repeatedly - I will deal with this later in more detail - that charges for bulk postage have been increased by 300 per cent without very much notice being given to business to enable it to make adjustments to cope with the increased charges. 
Although  1  agree with much of what has been stated already by members of the Australian Labor Party with regard to those and other features of the Bill, I cannot see any merit in withdrawing it at this stage. Instead, when  Senator Willesee's  proposed amendment is disposed of, and provided that it is defeated, I intend to move: 
At end of motion add: and that in the opinion of the Senate a joint select committee should be appointed to inquire into the desirability and practicability of removing the Australian Post Office from the administrative influence of the Public Service Board and of establishing a public corporation to manage the business of the Post Office'. 
That is consistent with what I and my colleagues espoused 3 years ago. I believe that it is worthy of consideration. When I say that, I am not reflecting on or denigrating the Post Office but that is not to say that I believe that it could not be improved upon and that its administration could not be freer with consequent advantage to the system and to the public generally. 
I recognise and appreciate that there have been tremendous advances in the postal and telephone services of this country. I am prepared to concede that much has been done by the use of modern methods, by the application of modern understanding and by the provision of modern services, but against that it must be admitted that there is a measure of truth in what  Senator McClelland  said a few minutes ago about the restriction on service to the public today in the delivery of mails and telegrams. If one seeks to send a phonogram one is told in many cases, particularly if it is late on Friday or early on Saturday morning, that the phonogram will not be delivered until Monday. A telegram is not of much value if it takes that length of time to reach the addressee. The idea of a telegram is to provide expeditious advice or to send a message quickly to another party. A delay of that nature is not evidence of complete efficiency. There is some bottleneck. There is some deficiency in management which permits that to occur. 
Furthermore, I think we must have regard to the whole budgetary position of the Government. To withhold this Bill would mean that the additional charges would not be collected, and that would add to the Government's financial difficulties. Already it has to find between S70m and$100m to reimburse the States for their loss of the receipts tax, provided of course that the relevant Bill is defeated, as it is expected to be. In addition, we now have the bolt from Bolte who has said that he will not pay the payroll tax due to the Commonwealth. That is another$9m that the Commonwealth Government will have to find by some means or other. However, I am not here to handle the case for the Government, As responsible members of the Senate, my colleagues and I believe that there is no real advantage in obstructing the passage of this Bill at this stage. 
It will be remembered that on 12th May 1967, 3 years ago, when we dealt with 2 similar Bills the ALP and the DLP voted together and we defeated the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill by 25 votes to 24. On 19th May a motion to postpone a second Post and Telegraph Rates Bill was successful by 23 votes to 22. On 20th June the Senate was recalled specially so that we could deal with regulations which provided for increases in certain rates, and we defeated those regulations by 27 votes to 25. On 19th September - at almost about this time of the year - my colleagues and I, 3 in number, were the only ones to vote against the Bills, members of the ALP electing to leave the chamber. That is the Labor Party's business but I do not want to be placed in the position again of being one of 3 who vote for the withdrawal of the Bills. I want to make it clear that I am not prepared to go along with the proposal to withdraw the Bills. As I cannot very well amend  Senator Willesee's  amendment - I attempted to do that - I am compelled to move a distinct amendment which covers the latter portion of his amendment. 
The Minister told us in her second reading speech that without these new charges there would be a loss of$11m on the operations of the Postmaster-General's Department. Although there would be a loss of $30m on the postal side, this would be offset by a profit of SI 9m on the telecommunications side, giving the net loss of Slim. With the new charges the Minister expects a profit of $30m. Although there will be a loss of §9m on the postal side, the profit on the telecommunications side is exepected to be $39m. The Post Office believes that the introduction of the increased charges will effect a reduction of $2m in the losses it incurs on the postal side. 
I agree also with  Senator McClelland's  protest about the delay in making available to members of the Senate the accounts of the Post Office for last year. Irrespective of whether the Senate or the other place or, for that matter, any other Parliament is concerned, it is imperative that members should have the assistance of the accounts covering the previous year's operations when dealing with budgetary matters so that they can address themselves to the position and make comparisons with activities in previous years. In the absence of the accounts we are required merely to engage in some anticipation or in some guesswork as to the true position. 1 emphasise that this is a big department which calls for and merits expert management and efficient control. As I said previously, I am not suggesting that the Post Office does not have such management and control but 1 have reason to believe - and I am supported in my belief by no less a person than a former Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs,  Mr Frank  O'Gradywho points out in an article for which he was responsible, and which appeared in one of the leading Australian newspapers, the embarrassment he felt and the awkward position in which, from time to time, he found himself because he was subject first to the Treasury and secondly to the Public Service Board. No-one would say that  Mr O'Grady  was not an efficient and well-informed officer. All I have heard about him has been very much in his favour. Surely we must be guided to a great extent by the opinions, based on experience and knowledge, of men who have seen the Post Office grow from something comparatively small to something great in its ramifications and its services to the community. 
No-one will deny that the Post Office has grown with a lot of advantages and beneficial effect. Its service particularly to people in remote parts of this continent has been tremendous. We all acknowledge and appreciate this fact. We pay tribute to those who have comprised the staff of the Postmaster-General's Department over the years. I believe that frequently the work in radio and television done by men who are experts on the technical and electrical side goes unnoticed. But that does not mean that they could not do better if they had some of the shackles removed and were permitted to work and administer with a greater measure of freedom. 
The question of interest on loans made available to the Postmaster-General's Department by the Treasury seems lo be a bugbear. The interest on capital in 1968-69 was $94,591,000. In 1969-70 the interest on capital was $106,354,000. In 1970-71 it is estimated - in the absence of any accounts - that the interest on capital will be $122,503,000. ft is estimated that approximately $2,000m of capital is invested in the Postmaster-General's Department. It is a big concern. If (he Post Office were to function, as it is expected to function, as an ordinary trading body it would have to find that interest. I often wonder whether other departments should not share in that interest bill. In this respect I agree with  Senator Wilkinson.  The work that the Postmaster-General's Department is doing for the decentralisation and development of this country cannot be gauged, and in many other respects is really something which is helping the nation as a whole. But the Department is expected to bear the total cost of the money it is employing to provide its services. 
The same argument applies to railways. The vast State of Queensland which 1 represent, with  6i  thousand or more miles of railways and with its size and distances, could never have been developed had it not been for the railway system aided by shipping along the long coast. The early parliamentarians, to their credit, showed some vision. They built railways from the capital to central Queensland. In later years they extended the Une to Townsville and Cairns. They built the railway from Rockhampton to Longreach. Now the railway from Townsville goes to Mount lsa, the last section being a later project. They built railways to many of the country centres. Of course not all of those railways paid their way. The Railway Department was burdened with annual deficits because of the large interest bill that it had to meet and because of the work of development in which it was engaged. The settlers could never have succeeded in their land settlement had it not been for the transport system which was provided. The roads which we see today were not built and unfortunately many of them were built parallel and in competition with the railways. Over the years the Lands Department should have been sharing in the interest bill because that was one Department that was receiving revenue because of the development of the State and because of land settlement due to railways. That is the same principle as applies in this case. But as I said when I was dealing with this matter previously, I was encouraged by a statement by a former Prime Minister, no less a person than  Sir Robert  Menzies. He stated: 
You ask me to charge interest on moneys that we have provided without cost. That would have the effect of throwing important public utilities into deficit. 
That is exactly what I have been saying. There has to be some adjustment in this matter of interest if the operations of the post and telegraph side of the Post Office are to balance. What I cannot understand is this: If we have to increase telephone and telegraph rates because we show a loss on the operations under that heading why do we have to increase the rates on the telecommunications section which shows a healthy profit. The only explanation offering is that profits of the telecommunications branch are required to subsidise the postal and telegraph services. 
I do not share the view which has been expressed here and which I have read in the Hansard of the other place that there is nothing to be gained by even considering the establishment of a corporation. I believe that there is everything to be gained. I do not share the attitude: 'All is well.' Do not let us be rushing off to take any alternative scheme unto our bosom without examining the pros and cons of the scheme. Everything cannot be right, or we would not have the big losses in the Postmaster-General's operations. I am not unmindful of the fact that the Department had to meet an increased wages bill of something like $58m. It is common sense that that increase has to be met somehow. I believe that most people are realistic enough and fair enough to accept that that is the position. But the Post Office is no different from any other undertaking in the community. When there are wage rises, up go the bus fares or up go food prices. God only knows where it will all finish. 
There is increased revenue. However, the thing to which people are objecting in respect of this legislation is the savage increases  -  300 per cent increases, ISO per cent increases and so on. I have numerous letters here. They are no different from those that have been received by all honourable senators. We have to credit the people who have written them with being very vigilant about their own business. The pocket nerve is a very sensitive one. But this is their right. 
Yes. They come to their representatives, as they have the right to do. It is a credit to the parliamentarians that they are so accessible and ready to hear the stories and cases of these people. Sometimes I wonder whether it might not be to the advantage of the Postmaster-General's Department and the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  personally - I do not say this in any splenetic way - if he were more receptive and if he would examine and consider some of the points put forward by these people. 
We all have agreed in this debate that big quantities of worthless bulk postage material are going through the post every day. Members of the Senate have reported that they have received more than 1 copy of the same issue. That shows some weakness in the system of dispatch. I think most of the letters I have here have been dealt with or referred to. But a schedule provided to me shows that a publication known as 'Australian Hardware Journal' and issued by an independent publisher will incur a 100 per cent increase in postage, 'Mingays Electrical News' will incur a 140 per cent increase, 'Club Management in Australia' will incur a 110 per cent increase- 
I sit here as much as most senators do, but I cannot recall that. It could have been. However, when I was a young man I was told that one could always justify repeating a good thing but one could never justify repeating something that had no value. The publication Construction' will incur a 120 per cent increase, 'Australian Chemical Processing and Engineering* a 100 per cent increase, Australian Welding Journal' a 127 per cent increase, 'Australian Machinery and Production Engineering' a 100 per cent increase, The Journalist' a 300 per cent increase, 'Printing Trades Journal' a 140 per cent increase, 'NSW Police News'  a  120 per cent increase, 'The Australian Worker' a 120 per cent increase and 'ETU News' a 300 per cent increase. 
I also have a letter from the Royal Automobile Club of Queensland telling the Senate through rae that there is a sudden increase of 175 per cent in postal charges which it describes as 'unrealistic and unfair'. It states: 
The additional cost of postage for the Club Journals is estimated at approximately $375,000 per year. 
That is a huge amount for postage of a journal which is issued to members of the RACQ and which contains a lot of valuable advice with regard to road safety, traffic laws and many other matters. I refer now to 2 publications that I thought might have been included in category A. I hope that it is not too late for this case to be reconsidered. I quote the following from a letter from the Padua College at Stafford in Brisbane: 
The Director of Posts and Telegraphs,  Mr E.  F. Lane, has sent to Padua College two letters concerning the two registered publications we issue, 'Paduana' and 'The Paduan'. This afternoon 1 rang the quoted telephone number and was assured that the incredible news was, in fact, correct and quite unalterable within the presently proposed wording of the legislation. 'Paduana' is a small newsletter of four foolscap sheets folded to form 16 pages. It contains the administration's communications to parents, news of the College and the 'literary efforts' of students. I am including a copy for your perusal Though it may seem mundane and limited in articles of educational theory, you must realise that this magazine plays a vital educational role in maintaining communication between teachers and parents. In such a situation, excessive theory and a complete lack of news would make it unattractive to most parents and thus defeat its purpose. Yet we are now told that this very interest level will exclude it from being labelled as 'educational', so not qualifying for classification as Category A. 
On 4 August 1970 we posted 634 copies at Stafford, 4053, Post Office at a cost of lc each, totalling $3.17 . . . Our records show that 171 copies were posted to 4053; the rest mostly to the neighbouring post offices ... if 'Paduana' is classified as Category A, our postage will double to $6.34 per issue; but if we are forced into Category B, the cost will leap to $11.83, even should the Post Office accept all 4053 addresses (including Stafford, Stafford North, Everton Park, Mitchelton and Gaythorne) as Office of posting1. With seven issues per year, we simply could not sustain a postage bill of $82.81. The present subscription of 5c per copy seems high to many parents who compare this cost with Se for their daily paper- no matter how unreasonable this comparison. 
I will not read the balance of the letter from that College. I have read sufficient to show that the Postal Department must be very poor if it has to ask the publishers of these booklets or pamphlets, which are. important in the education and training of children, to pay additional postage for their distribution. I appeal to the Minister. When I appeal to  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin I am conscious of the fact that she is not really the Minister in charge of the postal services. I hope she will exercise her charm on the Postmaster-General and convince him of the necessity- 
That is agreed. That is the Queensland charm. My colleague  Senator Byrne  really should be in the role that I am in now. He could make a better effort to charm the delightful representative in this chamber of the Postmaster-General. However 1 do not know that he has had a lot of experience. I might outdistance him in experience but there are certain proprieties that I have to observe. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  - Order! I think it would be a good idea if you returned to the path you were on. 
I am doing that. I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General to make representations on behalf of the Senate for reconsideration of this important phase of this Bill. I do so not only because of that letter I received from the College but also because of the overall picture. I ask that the increases of up to  300  per cent on these publications be watered down a little and that the people should not be hit so hard. Then I do not think there would be any complaint at all. Many of the gentlemen who have seen me about this matter have stated that they would not mind a reasonable increase in price. Being businessmen they recognise that because of increased wages bills and everything else the increased overhead has to come out of somebody's pocket. But when the increases range from  175  per cent to  200  per cent and  300  per cent then, as I described them earlier, they are very savage.  1  regret that I cannot support in toto the amendment moved by the Opposition but I believe we will support the major portion of it. Really I do not think that anything can be gained by withholding the Bill. We have been through all this before. Having regard to the finances of the country and the position we find ourselves in I think the Bill should be passed and we should form a committee to give consideration to the alternative plan. 
 I, too, welcome the announcement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  of the date for the forthcoming Senate election. I am naturally delighted that the Government has decided to terminate the imposition of the iniquitous receipts tax from today. 
For the information of  Senator Cant,  the tax has been collected by many States. As I have said previously, if the tax had been imposed on Queensland it would have meant about a 400 per cent increase. 
The honourable senator seems to hang a lot on the postal charges, but it is very interesting to note that he and the Party to which be belongs allowed the Social Services Bill to go through without any motion being proposed for its withdrawal, lt was more important for them to save a lot of publishers and others the increased postal charges than to do something in the interests of the pensioners and the people affected by the means test. We make that observation here and now in reply to the honourable senator's interjection. 1 welcome the announcement of the election date because to have imposed the receipts tax, particularly on the Queensland taxpayers, would have been most unfair. In that State the receipts tax was a moderate tax which returned to the Treasurer something over $2m in the last financial year. The Government's proposal would have meant a considerable increase in the tax collected from the people of Queensland. 1 am glad that the Party to which 1 belong took the initial steps to arrest the drift of that tax throughout Australia, and in particular in Queensland. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that because of the Government's current shipbuilding and shipping policy, the Queensland shipyard at Evans Deakin and Co. Ply Ltd is being placed in a less favourable position to quote competitively against the Broken Hill Co. Ltd, South Australian shipyard. 
Has the Minister instructed the Australian Shipbuilding Board to restrict R. W. Miller and Co. Pty Ltd, a wholly owned Australian company, to one additional tanker instead of the two requested by them although, at the time when this company requested the Australian Shipbuilding Board to call tenders, no firm request had been made by any other company. 
Is it a fact that Broken Hill Pty Ltd are at present building a 62,000 ton deadweight crude oil tanker for R. W. Miller and Co. Pty Ltd, and that great economies can be effected in the building of the second tanker which will be a sistership; if so, does this mean that unless the Minister allows Millers to call tenders as originally requested- for three tankers from the same plans and specifications- it is almost impossiblefor Evans Deakin to lender competitively. 
If R. W. Miller &amp; Co. Pty Ltd is deprived of competitive tendering willthis almostcertainly result in a higher cost to Millers and also tothe Government inthe way of subsidy. 
Is it a fact that overseas oil companies did not place orders for large crude oiltankers until after Millers requested the Australian Shipbuilding Board to call tenders for 2 additional tankers, making a total of 3. 
Is it a fact that the Government was unable to implement its Australian-flag coastal tanker policy without Millers' help in 1963. 
Would the overseas oil companies have placed orders for large crude oil tankers with Australian shipbuilding yards had Millers not made the move to have 3 tankers built in Australia. 
Did the Minister allow the Shell Co. of Australia Ltd to import the T.T. Solen free of duty on the basis that this company hod 3 years' operation free of any undertaking exceptthat at the end of this period, they either had to place an order with an Australian shipbuilding yard which on present indications would take no less than 4 years to have a replacement built, giving Shell 7 years on the coast with the imported tanker, or, alternatively, export the imported tanker. 
Did the Minister withhold the calling of tenders on behalf of Millers to allow Caltex Oil Australia Ply Ltd to build ahead of them; if so, (a) was the reason due to a concern for overtonnage, (b) docs over-tonnage only react against Millers, as it did in 1966 when the overseas oil companies achieved their objective of over- tonnaging Millers partly off the coast because the refinery companies insisted on employing their own tankers, (c) did this mean that Millers were left without cargoes to the extent that they were compelled to sell overseas the first Australian-flag tanker, namely Millers Canopus, at scrap value and that the remaining two tankers were only able to obtain 60 per cent employment, (d) was the over-tonnage mentioned above caused by the Departments acceptance of the refinery companies' assessment of coastal tanker requirements being 11 as against Millers' of 9 efficiently employed, and was Millers' assessment proved to be correct. 
Will the Minister give an undertaking that his Department will not accept the assessment given by overseas-owned refinery companies and does he not agree that to accept their assessment would again enable them to over-tonnage the coast and force Millers, which is independently operated to be over-tonnagedoff the coast which would, in turn, mean that the Government would subsidise useless tonnage. 
Docs the Minister agree that if each refinery company is permitted to build a subsidised large crude oil tanker, the coast will be grossly over-tonnaged. 
Since the Minister has agreed to Millers having 2 large crude oil tankers built and to Ampol Petroleum Ltd employing 1 large Australian built tanker, would it not be in the best interests of all concerned to allow Millers and Ampol, the 2 Australian companies, to operate between them the number of Australian built tankers required, say a total of 5, for at least a period of 10 years. 
Does the Minister agree that if Millers were permitted to call tenders for an additional 3 tankers, making a total of 4 plus Ampol's 1, the coast would undoubtedly be catered for over a period of at least 20 years with an efficientfleet of Australian-flag tankers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Howard Smith O.B.O. ship, the MV Howard Smith was taken to Singapore on14th August 1970, for normal annual survey and repair work. 
As it was not an emergency job and could have been performed efficiently at Brisbane, does the Minister agree that this represents a bypassing of first-class ship repair and docking facilities at Brisbane for Australian flag ships. 
Does the Minister have any power of direction in this matter, especially when Australian ship repair trades are desperately seeking work? 
I would like to indicate that the work programme for this week as announced by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth 
Anderson), and a copy of which I understand was circulated to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and to the Whip of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, is quite acceptable to my colleagues and myself. I think we all have a common aim to conclude the business of this Senate by Friday next. I think that with a little understanding and with a bit of cooperation we should succeed in achieving that objective. There is merit in the suggestion made by  Senator Murphy.  I am pleased to hear the Leader of the Government say that as soon as he knows what the workload is he will be prepared to go into consultation with the Leader of the Opposition and myself. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Murphy)  adjourned. 
In speaking on the Budget papers I expressed the view that I believed that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  in giving effect to promises he made prior to the House of Representatives election 12 months ago, and in response to the campaign carried out by many big unions for tax reduction on the lower and middle range of incomes, had exceeded what I would have expected in his taxation remissions. I expressed also the view that perhaps, had he not carried the 10 per cent reduction into a much higher bracket than I would classify as a middle class income section, he would have been in a much better position to have given the pensioners more than the Budget gave them. However, even though I held that view, I do not feel disposed to support this amendment because at this stage it would have little or no effect and could not have any effect, within reason anyway, in altering the budgetary position of the Commonwealth, lt would have nothing more than an embarrassing effect on the Government, which would be required to withdraw, in the circumstances, the provision for a reduction in taxation generally. 
On at least 2 occasions, my Party has moved for the withdrawal of a budget in toto because it did not contain provision for an increase to pensioners and because it did not increase child endowment or contain many other things we thought it should have contained. But on these occasions when we have moved for the withdrawal of a budget because of those things, we were the only ones who supported the amendment, lt is one thing to ask for the withdrawal of a budget in toto; it is another thing merely to oppose revenue Bills and advocate additional expenditure. That attitude is an irresponsible one, because we all know that the Government of this country depends on its revenue from income tax, sales tax, customs and excise duty and company tax, in the main, plus income from miscellaneous fields. That being so, its expenditure must be measured by the income it has in hand. If we are merely to argue for and advocate increased expenditure under many headings and then go on opposing every means of raising revenue, what would be the result? 
I repeat that to do that is irresponsible. It is not facing the facts. We have to be realistic and we have to act as responsible people when we come to the handling of finance. 
I am conscious of that, but ihe Government is giving away $228m in the balance of the financial year 1970-71 and $289m in a full year. That is a big reduction in the income of the Commonwealth, and to meet that reduction it is faced with 2 things: It has failed to meet the just claims of pensioners and others and has added to the indirect tax that has to be paid by the people. So when we are dealing wilh these financial Bills we must surely act responsibly. I deplored the miserable increase in allowances that the Budget provided for all pensioners. I deplored also the fact that there was no additional provision for the family man in the form of child endowment. As you know,  Mr Deputy President,  the Party which I am privileged to lead has been a strong advocate for generous payments under the heading of child endowment because we believe the family man is bearing a burden out of proportion to what he should be bearing today because of increased costs of living and because of the relatively poor position that he is in compared with his married fellow worker with no family or the single man. 
We have the position in recent times of equal pay for the sexes. I am not contesting the justice of that principle, but a spinster could be working in a job side by side with a married man who has five or six children and they both receive the same income. No-one could tell me that there should not be a generous provision for that man for the maintenance of his wife and children. The only means that I can see of doing justice to him is under the heading of child endowment. 
It is not my intention to delay the Senate by going over all those matters which were more or less dealt with in speeches made in the debate on the Budget.In dealing with these Bills we must have regard to both sides of the balance sheet. Perhaps honourable senators will forgive me for repeating the old saying that you cannot get more out of a pint pot than  a  pint. 1 believe that that is indisputably sound logic. If we are not satisfied with the Budget we have the privilege and right of asking for its withdrawal in toto. To my mind it is an unbalanced procedure to single out the revenue Bills for rejection and at the same time advocate greater expenditure. 
The motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  was inevitable,to my mind, having regard to the circumstances surrounding the business of the Senate. We all are conscious of the fact that a Senate election is to be held on 21st November. We have a good deal of business to transact before then. As a result of a request made by  Senator Murphy  that there should be some programming of the time available to us for the disposal of this business, the Whips of the respective parties conferred and drew up a time table. It was in existence for about 24 hours before it was dislocated and disrupted by an urgency motion which took up 3 hours yesterday. 
How on earth are we to dispose of the business of the Senate in an orderly fashion, as has always been emphasised by  Senator Murphy,  if it is to be interrupted by urgency motions that do little or no good except to gain some political propaganda. In the circumstances, I think the Leader of the Opposition has no alternative but to agree to go ahead with Government business in preference to non-Government business. Personally I feel that if we have not disposed of the business of the Senate by Friday night the Senate should adjourn until after the election. It is all right for candidates who belong to the two major parties; they cannot lose. But other people have the same rights as they have. Whilst it is possible - sometimes it is overdone - for members of the major parties to obtain pairs, members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party are unable to pair with anybody. 
We do not think it is funny. It is very unjust. 1 know there would be a lot of complaints if members of the Labor Party were in the same situation. 
Of course you are. J make the observation that I am the Leader of the second Opposition party in this place. In the light of the present circumstances I. do not think we have any alternative but to proceed with urgent Government business and dispose of it. If we have not completed it by Friday night, I submit that the Senate should adjourn until after the election. 
I am sure that the matter we are now debating would be regarded by every thinking person in the community as being of the utmost importance to the future of Australia because involved in it is one of Australia's great industries. From the time when 1 was a boy at school I have believed that the wool industry is one of the mainstays of Australia's economy. 1 could not believe that there would be anyone in the community, much less in this Parliament, who would not bc conscious of the great deterioration which has taken place in the economics of the industry. Furthermore, if one has taken time to study the changes that have taken place in the industry of recent years one could not but have sym pathy with those engaged in it because of ever increasing costs and overheads, on the one hand, and falling prices on a restricted market on the other. Therefore, if the proposed Australian Wool Commission is an attempt on the part of the Government, as I believe it to be - whether it be belated and overdue matters very little at this stage; - to assist this great industry, the Party which I am privileged to lead welcomes the legislation. 
There has been a lot of controversy about the merits and demerits of the methods which have been adopted for some time for the selling of our wool, lt is not surprising that there are different schools, of thought on a matter such as (hat, and particularly in regard to such an industry, just as there were different schools of thought on the controversial question of the export of merino rams. Big sections of the industry saw merit in selling our merino rams overseas while people associated with the graziers organisations and the woo! industry were strong advocates against it. When that matter was before the Parliament my colleagues and I, none of us having any intimate association with the wool industry but feeling that we had a responsibility to acquaint ourselves with the pros and cons of the case, went to great pains to ascertain the position. We have demonstrated that interest. We hold the balance of power and proposals which come to this place from the Government can be carried only with our support. 
After a very exhaustive search and close inquiry I found that there was very poor liaison between the parliament of the wool industry and many of those engaged in it in relation to the proposal to export merino rams. Many of those with whom I spoke &lt;ere so uncertain about it that I and my colleagues suggested that the export of merino rams should not take place until a referendum of those interested in the industry had been taken, and that they be given an opportunity to express a view following presentation of the case for and against (he proposal by the Australian Wool Industry Conference, the parliament of the wool industry. I mention that merely to show the difference of opinion which can exist among those associated with an industry such as the wool industry. 
Such a difference of opinion could exist in the meat industry, the wheat industry or any other industry. lt is not surprising that some people are not enamoured of this legislation and that some predict dire results if it is implemented. I cannot accept all of the fears that  Senator Cant  has expressed regarding it. The object of the Bill, as we all know, is to establish a statutory body to be known as the Australian Wool Commission, empowered to operate a flexible reserve price scheme for wool sold at auction and to perform a number of other functions relating to the whole clip and aimed at improving the marketing of Australian wool. If the idea behind this legislation is the creation of an Australian Wool Commission which will endeavour to improve wool marketing, then that in itself justifies the legislation. We have been informed by  Senator Drake-Brockman,  who in this place represents the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  that the proposal for such a body was supported by mass meetings of wool growers throughout Australia, and that the 2 federal wool grower organisations - the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council and the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation - resolved to press for such a body, as did the national body of the wool growers, the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 1 am compelled to accept that statement in preference to the dire predictions made by  Senator Cant.  With all respect to him, I suppose that his association with the wool industry has been about as close as mine has. He has had practically no intimate association with the industry but, as a thinking man in the community, he would have some knowledge of its great value to the economic life of this country and would be conscious also of the fact that today the industry is suffering because of low prices, lack of markets, increased overhead expenses, higher wages and increased cost of materials, equipment and all the things necessary for the successful management of a farming property. He must be conscious also of the fact that on top of all that the people in the industry for too long and too frequently have been bugged by long and extensive droughts. Therefore, if anything, the Government has been a bit tardy in its approach to this matter because the problems confronting the industry did not appear on the horizon only last month or the month before. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
When the sitting was suspended for lunch I was expressing my opinion that the Government had been a little tardy or slow in acting to aid the wool industry. Many of the conditions and circumstances that exist now have not just appeared on the horizon; they have been in existence and gradually growing worse because of increased overheads and the decline in prices. No doubt the position has been aggravated by the droughts that have occurred in the various States, particularly in the State that I represent - Queensland. We have had a continuity of droughts for years. Some properties in Queensland have not enjoyed a favourable season for more than 10 years. This position has compelled the Government to take some action. 
Palliatives are of little value to an industry of this kind, and gimmicks have even less value. So, it is necessary for the Government to make a proper and complete survey of the position. What has been said about the wool industry today, unfortunately, can be said of most of the rural industries. This makes such a survey imperative in the interests of our society. The failure of rural industries in a country such as ours is not only a problem for the national economy but also a social catastrophe. When one has regard to the number of people who are employed in rural industries and the others who are engaged in businesses such as stores, transport firms, garages and other activities in a country community, I suppose that ii can be estimated conservatively that 1 million of our people are engaged directly or indirectly in the primary industries. 
I believe that the time for slick expedient solutions has passed. I repeat that gimmicks and palliatives will merely extend the agony and cost of the present crisis. It is time the fundamental causes of the crisis were more widely explained and understood because too many people, including farmers, are becoming hysterical about the situation. 1 know from personal contact that in the western parts of Queensland there are people who will never recover unless something big is done to help them 

 Australian Wool in meeting their debts which have accumulated and also to provide them with the wherewithal to restock when favourable conditions obtain. 
In that connection I have often wondered why in drought periods, when our graziers are required to move their stock to agistment areas to the best of their ability and provided agistment areas are available and when they are required to sell stock if they can sell them rather than allow them to die, the income they receive from the sale of such stock should not be exempt from taxation and held for restocking purposes when the season becomes more favourable. At least they would have some finance with which to proceed with that work if a scheme such as that were implemented. 
We know that the crux of the whole problem, in the main, is the steady collapse of our markets. This Bill, after examination by  Sir John  Crawford and others, is based on a scheme of firstly endeavouring to obtain suitable markets and secondly providing a reserve price for wool. We cannot overlook the challenge to the wool industry. The international petrochemical industry, with its vast resources of scientific skill, has been constantly improving the quality of synthetic fibres over the past 20 years. The use of polyester and acrylic fibres is increasing, and they have an advantage over wool. We have to face up to that fact. That is why I believe that if there is anything we can do to assist this industry we as a Parliament have an obligation to do it. 
Speaking generally of rural industry, I say that the position is nothing short of disastrous and has reached the stage of being a national crisis. Unless urgent remedial steps are taken, many of these rural industries will go out of existence with the result of which I spoke previously. The I million people who are now engaged directly or indirectly in rural pursuits will transfer to the metropolises which already are splitting at the seams because of their overpopulation and the inability of the municipal authorities to provide them with power, transport and all the other things that are necessary for the settlement of people in a metropolitan area or elsewhere. 

 Commission Bill 1 769 
We say that the Commonwealth Government should immediately establish a national rural finance corporation, adequately financed by the Commonwealth and structured specially for making low interest loans to agriculture. The corporation should make short term - such as 12 months - medium term and long term loans at a minimum rate of interest. It should begin immediately to fund and refinance rural debts, including an interest free and non-redemption period for the debts so funded. Only a national corporation of this type can cover the needs of such a widely diversified range of products and circumstances. Credit available to agriculture must be different in scope and approach from that available to manufacturers and general traders. Rates of interest on rural loans should be lower than those available to manufacturers, traders and general merchants. This is because rural operations cover greater periods of time than other processes and the yield on capital invested is lower. Only specially trained and oriented finance and credit officials can attempt to estimate accurately farmers' security based on moral occupational training, standing and experience factors. 
We can go on talking about the difficulties being faced by those engaged in our rural industries. We can go on extending to all these people the utmost sympathy but unless we give them some real assistance all the other is of little avail. It is not good enough to say: T sympathise with you, old fellow, because you have run into this great difficulty.' There are some places where young people have drawn a block of land, gone into debt to carry out a lifelong desire to become land settlers, and have had 3 or 4 successive droughts. What they have not lost through drought, in certain parts of the State the dingoes have eaten. Imagine the feelings of those people, particularly if no aid is forthcoming. How could they think of going into further debt in order to restock their properties? I say very definitely that the wool industry, in common with other rural industries, is entitled to aid not so much in the interests of the people involved as in the interests of this nation and of preserving industries that will and must always be a part of the economic and social structure of a country like Australia. 30 October 1970 
Imagine,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  how many ghost towns there could be in a vast country like this. I know what Queensland would look like because I know that State like the back of my hand. [ have been all over it dozens of times. I have seen it in periods of drought. Unless a person goes to a drought stricken area he cannot have a full appreciation of the difficulties and trials that people on the land are required to bear. We do not want a lot of ghost towns throughout a State or the country generally. We want to see these industries flourishing or at least returning a fair profit to those who have invested their capital in them. We want to see the business places providing these people with goods and services making at least a reasonable living. All this contributes to the overall prosperity of Australia and the various States. That is the outlook of the Democratic Labor Party on this matter. 
We will assist the Government in any sincere well thought out plan to help the wool grower, the wheat grower, the dairy farmer, the cotton grower or any other section of primary industry. I am satisfied that the Government has given this matter the careful consideration that it merits. I have every confidence that  Sir John  Crawford and the Wool Advisory Committee have examined this position very carefully.  Sir John  Crawford has had wide and long experience and the Committee's report would be based on sound grounds. It is on this report that this Bill is based. The Democratic Labor Party will support it and we sincerely hope it will have the desired effect. It will not solve all the problems associated with the wool industry. I do not believe that even the most sanguine or optimistic of those in the industry believe that it will. But it can contribute a great deal and it could iron out some of the difficulties that face the industry, particularly in the marketing field and in that respect I believe it will serve a good purpose. 
My interest in the Aboriginal people, particularly those in Queensland, dates back very many years, firstly as a citizen of the State and secondly as a Minister of the Government of Queensland for 15 years. Unlike  Senator Keeffe  my interest in Aboriginals dates back to the time before they were granted the franchise. It is remarkable, indeed significant, just how many people have become interested in the welfare of Aboriginals since they were granted the franchise. The activities of some of these people wilh a view to obtaining political advantage is startling, to say the least. I. have a lot of contacts with Aboriginal people. Only a few weeks ago I was in Murgon and met a lot of them who knew me personally. 1 propose to support this amendment because 1 believe that if it is possible for the Commonwealth to aid the States in making additional funds available and if that money is properly expended in the interests of Aboriginals, I am in favour of it. But if the money is to be wasted then I will oppose the amendment. 
The handing out of money to Aboriginals is not the solution to all their problems. The answer is in the judicious expenditure of the money that is available, in ihe provision of the opportunity of establishing their own homes, living under more favourable and hygienic conditions. The availability of education facilities is vital because until we get the Aboriginal children and train and educate them they will continue to behave as they have done in the past. My wife and I have taken them into our home and protected them. My wife particularly has taken a great interest in young women who have been in our service. She has always emphasised how important it was for them to be among the best of their people and not to associate with the cheap class hanging around the Adelaide Hotel, South Brisbane in great numbers misconducting themselves in public view. 
 That is true, but we are dealing with these people at the moment. They have a responsibility to themselves. These people, particularly in their teenage years, need some guidelines and protection from the evils of the world today because they are regarded as easy prey by a lot of unscrupulous people. I have seen them come to Brisbane from Cherbourg into the service of various people, and unless those girls are given some maternal protection and advice and not allowed to roam the streets until all hours at night it is not long before the majority of them return to Cherbourg in a pregnant condition. There they have their babies who again become a responsibility on the State and on the Commonwealth. Education is vital if we are to train these people to a state of responsibility that will enable them to take their place in any phase of our community life. Much has been written and said about making land available to them - giving them grazing properties to conduct. Some Aboriginals are quite bright. Most of them may be reasonably good stockmen but I question whether they have the business acumen to manage a cattle station or a sheep property. 
 I agree. Education is the important thing, lt may be found necessary for many years that they have to operate such properties with the guidance and direction of persons qualified to conduct the business side of such undertakings. If young men, particularly those who have applied themselves in school and who show promise, are taken in hand by the authorities and trained in the management of a station or any other business for which Aboriginals are naturally fitted and which will enable them to live in the country, something could be done. However they must be young enough to be trained. I. feel that all governments have failed to a great measure because of their inclination to adopt a paternal attitude to these people, as instanced on settlements where they are given foodstuffs sufficient to enable the maintenance of a family without requiring them to accept any responsibility. Few have been asked to take on a responsible job. I exclude those who have joined the police force at Cherbourg or other settlements. Others carry out a miscellany of jobs. No-one will tell me that anyone at Cherbourg, which is the place I know most about, is in want of food or starving, because that would be a gross exaggeration. 
The Government endeavours to create social functions for the Aboriginals who have their own public halls, radios and television sets. They have school balls, adult balls and debutante balls. I remember an occasion when a little girl who worked for us was decked out by  Mrs Gair  and sent to a debutante ball where she was received by  Mr W.  M. Moore who was then Minister for Health and Home Affairs. The people at Cherbourg  live happily and I sometimes wonder whether we have not been too paternal and too protective. It may have been better had some of these people been discharged from the settlement and left to work out their own destiny. If we have erred at all it is only because of our solicitude for these people. No government wants to regiment them but to protect them. 
If finance is to be made available let us hope that it will be expended judiciously and in the interests of these people. I support that part of the amendment which refers to the abolition of all discriminatory Acts which operate against the Aboriginals. However if some provisions which appear to be discriminatory are designed to protect the Aboriginals I would be opposed to their repeal particularly while the Aboriginals are in settlements in charge of the government.  Senator Wilkinson  asked why it is that there is a provision which makes it necessary for a person to get a permit to go onto a settlement. The answer is obvious. Without the need for a permit we would have every Tom, Dick and Harry entering settlements, poking in here and there, creating disorder and mischief, searching for young women and making a general nuisance of themselves. A person is not permitted to go into a lot of institutions. He cannot go into a hospital at any time of the day or night. Visiting hours are prescribed when a person is permitted to see sick relatives and friends. These institutions must be conducted in an orderly fashion. They cannot be thrown open to the public. After all, a lot of white pople are not very desirable characters and if they had an open entree to these settle ments it would not be in the best interests of these settlements or those who are living there. 
 Even so I think that the management of a settlement should be required to have some knowledge of the visitor. I am in favour of the amendment to abolish all discriminatory provisions. The Aboriginals now have the adult franchise. We have lifted the embargo on their drinking. I sometimes wonder whether that was wise, but nevertheless they must have equal rights although, indisputably, for some reason or other, they do not seem to handle their grog as well as they might. 
On the question of land rights I point out that land rights are given to naturalised British subjects from almost all countries. There is no prohibition on their owning land. Italians and others who come here permanently enjoy such rights. It would be unjust and unfair to suggest that the Aboriginals, the descendants of the original people of Australia, should not have equal rights. My colleagues and I will support the amendment because we favour the provision of additional money if it can be obtained and if it is properly and judiciously expended in the interests of the Aboriginals. We favour also the elimination of any section of any Act that discriminates against the Aboriginal as a citizen of Australia, but we do not favour the repeal of sections of Acts that are designed obviously for the protection of these people. That is the phase of the case that we have to watch. The amendments ask. for the Commonwealth to request the States of Queensland and Western Australia to take immediate legislative action to abolish all discriminatory legislation in both States. Those Acts can be classified in 2 categories. One category is of discriminatory Acts which operate against the Aboriginal and make him a lesser citizen than his white friends. The other is of Acts which appear to be discriminatory but which are there for the protection of the Aboriginal. That is how I classify them. 
I am very keen to see -more done for the young girls and boys when they reach their teens to give them the opportunity to express whatever aptitudes or talents they may have. 1 know of a young fellow who is the brother of a girl who worked for us for a number of years. He is quite a good landscape painter. He has a gift. He has been encouraged by the State Department of Native Affairs and Island Affairs to show his work at Brisbane exhibitions for many years., with some measure of success. Other Aboriginals have been trained as nurses. Provided they have the application and the desire to do something worth while in life and not go along with the tide of the past, I believe that no-one is going to object to giving them a little more aid. But money in the hands of these people is not the solution. They should be given the facilities for living as normal people. Their children should be given equal opportunities. It is the children that we can look to with hope and confidence to do something worth while. 
Many of the older Aboriginal people unfortunately have got into a groove and are beyond rescuing. Let us apply ourselves in the main to the younger generation and let us do the best we can so that they might fit into the way of life of our States and Commonwealth and play a part which is equally important as the part played by white people. 
On behalf of the Democratic Labor Party I accept with gratitude your good wishes,  Mr President,  which I reciprocate very readily. This session has been a heavy one, and I believe that the last week has been the heaviest part of it. I cannot remember a time in my long political life when there has been so much long and unnecessary talk as I have endured in the last week. The first thing I do when I leave here is to consult my ear, nose and throat specialist. I am sure that 1 am developing mastoids from the earbashing that I have had, on many innocuous matters, from people who have been practising for the election campaign or who have introduced political propaganda into a session the primary purpose of which is to dispose of Bills that have come here from the House of Representatives. Those propaganda speeches could have been made throughout the year. 
 The brook still runs on. If anyone has been a monopolist in this last week it has been my friend who is normally on the left but who in this case is on my right. He cannot be quiet even on an occasion like this until I have had a few words to say. 1 appreciate the expressions of goodwill from  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin, who is acting as Leader of the Government in the Senate, and from  Senator Willesee.  The honourable senator performed a few verbal acrobatics about good wishes by wishing this and wishing that. As far as I am concerned wishes will not matter. It is votes that I am concerned about, and I will have sufficient to be back here next year, in spite of what the Australian Labor Party might hope. Members of the Labor Party have gone out of their way to delay me in my campaign. It is noteworthy that I am still here but that  Senator Keeffe  is not here. 
 He is not in the chamber. The fact remains that wishes matter little to me. The votes are what concern me, and votes 1 shall get because f believe 1 have devoted myself to the job that the people elected me to do and that I have done it well and conscientiously. My record is as good as the best and better than most. 
On behalf of the Democratic Labour Party 1 join with the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in the motion of condolence to the widow and family of the late James Patrick Ormonde I bad known him only since I met him here when I became a  Senator. Naturally  I knew a good deal of his record in the Australian Labor Party. Since I met him personally in this chamber I found him agreeable, jovial and friendly. I assessed him as being a good Christian gentleman.  I  believe he conscientiously desired to serve this country in his own ways according to his own political ideologies and ideas and for that T suppose he has to be given credit. Whether they agreed with mine or with others 1 suppose is secondary to the individual's sense of purpose and sincere desire and motivation.  Senator Ormonde,  as has been said, had been sick for some time off and on and his death was not altogether unexpected. However, death comes to us ail - it is the only thing we can be sure about - and it comes in different ways, but we do not want to dwell on that subject. I believe he contributed something to the parliamentary and political life of this country for which the people of Australia owe him a debt and which f believe will bring him some merit. 
 I move: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until Wednesday, 17th February, at 2.55 p.m. 

 I do so for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency, namely: 
The need foi the immediate introduction of the necessary legislation to provide for increases in the rates of Social Service payments-Aged, Invalid and Widows' Pensions - to a level compatible wilh the minimum needs of the recipients, the total inadequacy of the present level of payments having been further exposed and now to be exacerbated by the judgment in the National Wage Case. 
This is the first opportunity the Democratic Labor Party has had to move an urgency motion without having to depend on the support of a senator or senators from outside the Party. That changed position is due, of course, to an increase in the number of DLP senators since the recent Senate election. The DLP is now able to comply with the Standing Orders concerning urgency motions. 
The matter that has been proposed for discussion tonight' is in connection with allowances paid to the pensioners of Australia. I am confident that no senator will dispute that the matter is one of urgency which merits immediate action by the Government This is not a new concern of mine or my Party's, ft is not something that has suddenly occurred to us overnight. Anyone who cares to peruse or read the speeches I have made since my election to the Senate and those of my colleagues will observe the continuing interest and concern that we have had for pensioners and those unable 10 obtain a pension because of the iniquitous means test. I nave raised the subject during every Budget debate and I have participated in the debate on every social services Bill dealing with pensions. The DLP wants action on the pensions question. Because we believe that it is one of the most important domestic problems facing Australia, we expect early action by the Government. 
We hope, during this debate, to place the spotlight on the inadequate pension rate, the anomalies in the system existing at present, the injustices in the means test and the failure of the Government in this sphere. When Mt Wentworth, the present Minister for Social Services, was appointed to that position we hoped that the pensioner would be given a better deal. That hope was based on the statements and speeches made by him when he was a private member. He frequently criticised the means test and the inadequacy of the pension rates. But his performance has not lived up to expectations. Either he has been muzzled by Cabinet or he has been disregarded by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  because since his appointment no marked improvement has been effected in the pension rates or in the means test. lt is true that there have been minor variations of the rates here and there - $1 in 1968, SI in 1969 and 50c in 1970. 1 regard the miserable 50c that was provided for pensioners in the 1970 Budget as  a  deliberate and definite freeze of pensions, lt was clearly intended to be a freeze of pensions. There has been no evidence 10 the contrary up to now, notwithstanding the fact that the Government has become acquainted with the 1.9 per cent increase in the cost of living in the last quarter of 1970 and the fact that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission declared an overall 6 per cent rise in wages and salaries, in addition to the indirect taxation imposed by  the  Government itself in the last Budget. All of that has had and will have the effect of eroding the purchasing power of the pittance paid to pensioners. Apart from the amounts 1 have mentioned, the Government has done nothing to lift the pensioner to a position where his pension rate is really adequate. Those amounts were intended only to offset increases in the cost of living. We want to see the position of  the  pensioner lifted so that he will not he asked to continue to live as a pauper, chasing the specials or going without the things which might make his life more livable. 
Then there was the introduction of the tapered means test in 1969. That was a move in the right direction, I will concede. But it introduced an element of unfair discrimination. It debarred a section of pensioners from receiving the fringe benefits normally given to all pensioners. They were not only debarred from Commonwealth fringe benefits, but the State and local government authorities also denied them fringe benefits because they were not entitled to a full pension. I have said  before  and I repeal now that the means test is iniquitous and  imposes  a penalty on thrift. It has become even more iniquitous in this era of growing inflation, because inflation severely affects people on fixed incomes who were thrifty enough in their working lives and were prepared to provide for their old age to some extent. They find now that their savings are eroded because of inflation. They find that the sum they thought sufficient to maintain them in a reasonable condition is being whittled away by increased costs of living and transport, and other increased charges with which they are faced. The amount they thought would be sufficient has proved to be insufficient. The purchasing power of their savings has been eroded, yet the means test is still applied. 
Inflation and the means test have caused many people to wonder whether they would have been better off to spend and not to save during their years of employment, thereby making themselves eligible for a pension. All honourable senators are aware of people who had a small reserve which prevented them qualifying for a pension and decided to spend that reserve on tours. Those people are not anxious to travel but they can see that what they have must be expended before they can qualify for a pension. That situation is cultivated by the present system of social services. It is contrary to the best interests of individuals and Australia. 
Pensioners today are. as badly off as they were under the last Australian Labor Party Government. That is an undeniable and indisputable fact. I invite honourable senators to compare present rates of pension and those paid by the last ALP Government with average weekly earnings, making allowance for the fringe benefits that pensioners enjoy today but did not receive from the last ALP Government. That comparison supports the statement I have made. In 1945 single age pensioners were paid 32s 6d a week. In today's currency that is $3.25. In 1947 they were paid $3.75 and today they are paid $15.50. Obviously in the intervening period there has been a fall in the real value of money. One cannot buy today for 50c the same amount of goods or services that could be obtained in 1947 for 5s. Therefore these rates of payment must be compared with another figure to establish a true comparison. This result can be achieved by relating pension rates to what the Commonwealth Statistician calls the average weekly earnings per employed male unit in Australia. 
Last year, following the pension increase of 50c in the Budget bringing the single age pension to $15.50 a week, that pension represented 19.1 per cent of average weekly earnings. In 1947 the single age pension represented 24.0 per cent. Clearly there has been a decrease in the pension as a proportion of average weekly earnings from 24 per cent to 19 per cent. But it would be grossly unfair to end the story at that point. In the years of the Liberal-Country Party Government since 1949 a number of significant fringe benefits have been made available to pensioners. The major fringe benefits I have in mind are the medical and pharmaceutical benefits. 
It would be a task beyond my capacity to evaluate those fringe benefits monetarily, but I am quite certain in my mind that they would equal the 5 per cent difference established by the comparison I have made if not more. Therefore I believe that there is truth in my claim that pensioners today are as badly off as they were under the last ALP Government. Of course, I am conscious of the categories of pensioners. The first group of pensioners, and the ones about whom I am most concerned, are the aged people who, because of their advanced years and poor state of health, are unable to supplement their pensions. They rely wholly and solely on their pensions. Another group of pensioners consists of those who are willing to work if they can get jobs suitable to their capacities and abilities. Because of advanced years and failing health these people experience great difficulty in securing suitable employment. They are limited by their capacity to work. Was it ever intended that a woman of 60 years or more should be required to seek employment to enable her to supplement an inadequate pension? 
 I said 'required to work'. You have a choice. I know of others who brag about their ability and desire to work but would not work in an iron lung. Last year, following the pension increase of 50c in the Budget - that great freeze of the pensions - a great public reaction occurred, not from pensioners alone but from almost every citizen of 
Australia. They registered their protests in some form or other and are continuing to register their protests at the inhuman approach of the present Government to the widows and the aged and invalid in our community. 
Ever since the formation of the Democratic Labor Party we have advocated and pressed for the introduction of a contributory national insurance scheme to cover the aged, to provide for the widow of the breadwinner and to provide for our people in times of sickness and hospitalisation. Our ultimate policy remains firm. But we are also realists. We recognise that the entire social welfare system cannot be changed overnight. Pending the introduction of any new scheme we have called for pension rates to be increased to a more realistic level, the extension of fringe benefits to all pensioners and the abolition of the means test for all pensioners particularly for those over 75 years of age. We contend that the Government should raise pensions immediately. If it was really just, it would make the payment at the increased rate retrospective, if not to the date of the last Budget in August of last year, when the pensioners should have received more than a miserable. 50c, at least to the beginning of the calendar year 1971, after which date the Government became aware of a marked increase of 1.9 per cent in the cost of living in the previous quarter. I believe that it was then that the Government, became aware of the inflationary trend. 
Now it has been suggested, seriously, that pensions and allowances cannot be increased because that would add to the inflationary trend. The interpretation f put on that statement is that the Government is content to allow the pensioners to carry the burden of the inflationary evil which has come upon us and which has been contributed to by the Government itself. That statement could be interpreted to mean also that the Government is content to allow the pensioners to live in their stale of penury because the economy might be disturbed by a dispensation of justice to the aged, the invalid and the widowed. The Government should raise pensions immediately. lt must have other effective means of correcting this inflationary trend of which it has become aware in recent times only. If the Government claims that inflation prevents it from increasing pensions immediately, I repeal that it is singling out the pensioner for unfair treatment. Pensioners needed increased rates even before inflation became a real menace, or became apparent, at least to the Government. 
The Government cannot escape some blame for the inflationary trend. The S280m tax rebate in 1970, which was much in excess of what had been promised, and the growth of bureaucracy have both contributed to inflation. Governments, federal and State, have given no lead in arresting the inflationary trend. In 1969 we had before this chamber the Judiciary Bill by which the salary of the Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia was increased from §24.000 - a real bread-line salary - to $30,000. That was an increase of $6,000. In 1965, 4 years earlier, his salary had been increased from $20,000 to $24,000. Yet in 1 969 he was given also a non-taxable allowance of $2,000. At that time the salary of a justice of the High Court was increased from $21,000 to $27,000 and. in addition, each justice was given a nontaxable allowance of $1,500. The salaries for judges of the Commonwealth Industrial Court, the Federal Court of Bankruptcy, the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory, and for presidential members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission were increased by $5,000 with a nontaxable allowance of SI. 000. The Chief Judge and President of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission received an increase in salary of $5,000 with a nontaxable allowance of SI .500. 
In 1970 the salary for the Commissioner of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation was increased to $16,931. for the Assistant Directors of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation the salary was increased to $15,592 and for the Director of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority it was increased to $1.1,822. At that time. I said that these increases would trigger inflation. The consequence has been that all the high bracket public servants have helped themselves to big increases in salaries. The States, which are always crying for money from the Commonwealth, also have offended in this direction to a great extent. Victorian Parliamentarians recently gave themselves a salary increase of 20 per cent. 1 recommend that Queensland State Ministers should curtail their frequent pilgrimages abroad and that the Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  might consider cancelling the order he has placed for an aircraft costing $170,000 and the appointment of a full time lady pilot. All these actions have done nothing to emphasise the need for economy in the inflationary era which has arisen. 
If the Governments failed to give a lead, who could blame the trade union movement for going to the courts seeking an improvement in wages? But the point that I want to make tonight is that everybody appears to be able to improve his own salary and the trade unions are able to get recognition from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, but nobody seems to be concerned about the pensioners, the poorest section of our community, particularly those who rely wholly and solely on the pensions that they receive. Surely the Government will not wait until August and the next parliamentary session, to remedy this injustice. Surely the Government is not so inhuman that it will ask the pensioners to persevere and to continue to live on this inadequate allowance. Its value, of course, is being eroded because of the increased cost of living, higher transport charges and taxi fares - al! those things which are prohibitive to pensioners. In many centres where public transport is not available old sick people have to walk if they require to go to hospital. Yet we are told that any increase in pensions will only add to the inflationary evil. 
In this country which we claim to be progressive, democratic and Christian, a country which is relatively affluent and rich, can any one of us go to bed at night and rest knowing the injustice that is being perpetuated against a section of our people, most of whom have contributed greatly to the development and progress of this country and have made possible the conditions which we enjoy today? I have outlined what I believe to be the facts about the position of pensioners in Australia. I have only half an hour at my disposal to make this speech. I did not very much appreciate the intrusion into the business of the Senate of a statement that could have been read tomorrow. The Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir 
Kenneth Anderson) knew very well that there was a limit to the time for debate on this question. If events follow the normal course, attempts will be made to adjourn the Senate in about half an hour but I intimate now that if 1 can gain the necessary support the Senate will not adjourn until this debate has been properly handled. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
 I do not think anyone would dispute that the country's economy - for that matter, any nation's economy - is the most important subject with which the Parliament could concern itself and which it could discuss. Today we are discussing as a matter of urgency the recent statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  about the reduction of governmental expenditure necessitated by the inflationary trend that is in evidence. I feel that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has done a disservice to the Senate by proposing his motion because he has limited the debate on this most important matter to 3 hours and has limited to 15 minutes the speaking time of each honourable senator, with the exception of himself and of the Minister who is in charge of the debate each of whom has half an hour in which to speak. We are expected to survey and to examine, if at all possible in a constructive way, this evil of inflation and the solution to the problem. I repeat that the Leader of the Opposition has done a disservice to the Senate because already on the business sheet there is provision for a debate on the Prime Minister's statement. A motion that the statement be noted has been moved.  Senator Murphy  moved for the adjournment of that debate. If that matter were before the Senate, more time would have been allotted for discussion and individual senators would have had more than 15 minutes to discuss the subject. 
Everyone agrees that inflation is an evil which befalls our economy periodically. If left unbridled, it could destroy the stability of our economy and bring about the worst thing that could befall us, that is, a depression. There is not very much difference between a depression and unbridled inflation. In a depression workers have no work; hence they receieve no wages. In an extreme inflationary period workers have jobs for which they are paid wages which have little or no purchasing power; so they are not that much better off. Inflation is 

 Australian Economy 169  one of the most pressing issues in our times; it .underlines many of our social problems. This inflationary trend means that elderly people see the value of their savings eroded by price increases. They become increasingly dependent upon the taxpayer and upon the goodwill of governments. Social services become overstrained and inadequate. Wage earners feel that they are being cheated because their increased earnings are absorbed largely by higher prices. Increased taxation renders them very little advantage. Young people are deterred from saving because the rate of interest paid on accounts does not cover the rise in the cost of housing and of the items that they are saving to buy. The permissive consumer oriented philosophy of live it up now, forget tomorrow, worry later' is fostered among the young. Who can blame them? This happens. We have seen it happen. 
Businessmen do not like inflation because of the unpredictability of future costs and because of the difficulty that it generates, in relation to vigorous financial planning. Throughout the community a premium is placed on superficial activities such as land speculation and dabbling in speculative shares on the stock market, to the detriment of productive investment. Investors are disadvantaged because they are caught up in a cost-price squeeze. Their prices are determined on world markets and their costs are determined on the domestic scene. 
Farmers are the worst hit by the phenomenon of inflation, although it is worth remarking that Australian export manufacturers and mining concerns would be in a far healthier position if their domestic costs were not rising as fast as they are. The major social problem lies with the 500,000 farmers, their dependants and the country towns which make their living by servicing primary industries. They are already faced with the terrible collapse of markets due to increased competition from synthetic fibres, to the glut of wheat following the green revolution in Asia, and to the protectionist move of Great Britain in joining the European Common Market. It is too much to expect farmers to cope with the nagging pressures of inflation in addition to what they are bearing at present. In the community there is general agreement  18 February 1971  on  the evil of inflation, even though there are differences as to the priorities that should be given for the treatment of it. 
I have not risen to adopt a critical attitude towards the Government's early attempts to correct the inflationary trend; rather have I risen to appeal to the Government to approach this evil in a constructive way and to formulate some national plan that could be carried out and given effect without destruction, without hurting more than can be helped, or without hurting to a greater degree than is necessary. In 1960 the Government was under the leadership of the then  Mr Menzies.  Recognising that inflation was upon us and without any great haste he gave effect to an economic policy which at the time I likened to an inexperienced motorist who found himself in a skid and put on his brakes. The motorist inevitably capsizes the vehicle. That was the effect of a precipitous antidote to inflation employed by the Menzies Government. 
We witnessed a lot of young people and :new business people who had not been established very long and who were still depending on overdraft to carry on having their overdrafts called in. Those small "businessmen went to the wall. I hope there will not be any precipitous ill-considered action taken by the Government in its own area or in the field of private enterprise which will have effects similar to those of 1960-61. That is why I say we. should be ;patient, at least to the extent of giving the Government time to examine and consider every possible process in rectifying, arresting and correcting this inflationary trend. The statement presented on behalf of the Prime Minister in this place on the other day shows a reduction in governmental spending. That is good. That is a field in which some saving can be effected without any great injury to people as a whole. 
If we examine the figures in the last Budget and the estimated expenditure for the ensuing year we find that already we have exceeded that expenditure by a considerable sum. Now the Government is merely trying to wipe out the additional expenditure which has occurred since the passing of the Budget in August last year. It might be necessary for the Government to go further in this connection. But whatever it does let it give mature consideration to every aspect with a view to finding a successful solution to the inflationary trend. Once inflation is analysed it is seen as a complex phenomena requiring a complex set of policies in response. One action is not going to correct inflation. To obtain any permanent or near permanent solution we have to correct it in many fields. Economists have done more work on inflation than almost any other topic so there should not be any lack of advice. The problem tends to be that often there is a lack of up to date information available in time to assess just which factor is most significant in causing inflation at a time when government response is needed. The classic cause of inflation is summed up in a short phrase: Too much money chasing too few goods. 
In a situation of excess demand in an economy the prices of things will tend to rise. Often this will be concealed in a labour shortage. There is no doubt that excess demand for wage and salary increases is a contributing factor. I am not opposed to the worker obtaining a just return for his labour. Not at all. But today the worker should be wise enough to know that under the present wage structure we have a system of a dog chasing its tail. Recently there was a 6 per cent increase in wages. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
In directing my question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral I refer  to  page 154 of the Seventieth Annual Report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board where it is stated that  Mr H.  E. Hendy is the owner of all the shares in 3 companies which hold substantial interests in 5 television stations. These interests had a market value as at 30th June last of $980,000 and included 22,000 shares in CTC Canberra, 101,150 shares in NBN Newcastle. 131,800 shares in WIN Wollongong, 54,700 shares in AMV Albury and 309,000 shares in QTQ 
Brisbane, ls the Minister aware that the total paid up capital of the 3 companies owning those shares is St 4? Does the Minister know the source of the funds which the 3 companies used to purchase shares worth almost Sim and lo purchase, in addition to these television shares, freehold property at 16-18 Hunter Street, Sydney which has a Valuer-General's value of $270,000? ls the Minister aware that the executors of the estate of  Mr Hendy  who died in August last year have now been advised by John Fairfax and Sons Ltd that that company holds an option to purchase the capital of the 3 companies at par - that is, for $14 - notwithstanding that the companies own assets worth at least Slim? In view of the option said to be held by John Fairfax and Sons Ltd will the Minister ascertain whether that company is in breach of the Broadcasting and Television Act and, if it is not, will he advise whether he proposes amendments to the Act to prevent a continuation of the position in which beneficial ownership of shares worth over Sim in the various television companies will pass to John Fairfax and Sons Ltd or their nominees on a payment of the nominal sum of SI 4? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories aware that the desiccated coconut industry in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea employs about 700 persons and makes a highly significant contribution to the Territory's economy? Are the 3 major sources of desiccated coconut for Australian use Papua and New Guinea, Ceylon and the Philippines? Did Ceylon devalue its currency in 1967 and did the Philippines devalue its currency on a floating basis in early 1970? Did these actions place the New Guinea desiccated coconut industry in a disadvantageous position because New Guinea currency is tied to the Australian dollar? Does the Government give assistance to other similar industries in New Guinea? Will the Government consider granting some form of assistance or price support to the desiccated coconut industry in the Territory so that it can continue its role as a vital economic unit and employer of labour in the Territory? 
On behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party I would like to say that, being conscious of the constitutional neces sities and processes, we believe that the adjournment of the Senate until next Monday is imperative. We recognise that the new leader of the Liberal Party- 
I certainly would not give the honourable senator a job of any importance because he could never carry it out. He could not run a message. When 1 was rudely interrupted, I was about to say that anyone with any parliamentary experience should know just what is involved with a change of leadership which involves a change of Prime Ministership, and just what the necessities are. I regret very much that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  found it necessary - I really sympathise with him in finding it necessary - to make a political propaganda speech on an occasion such as this. To say the least,  Mr President,  it shows very bad taste. It shows that the Leader of the Opposition enjoys very few occasions on which to make a speech regarding the defects in the Government's policies. However, the people can be sure of this: So long as the Democratic Labor Party is represented here - and we are here to stay - any defects in the policies of the government, irrespective of what political party it represents, will be attacked by the Democratic Labor Party which is the watchdog of the people's interest and the national interest. The people always will have some consolation in the fact that, whatever the deficiencies in the Government, the danger of the alternative government is much greater for Australia and the Australian people. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I desire to direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. What percentage deduction under the telephone rental concession scheme is allowed to eligible aged, invalid and widow pensioners? Does the deduction apply only to the rental portion of the pensioner's account? Has the percentage deduction been varied following the last increase in telephone charges? If so, to what extent and why? Has- the percentage deduction been previously altered at any time since the introduction of the scheme? 
 Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs any information on the persecution and imprisonment of members and chaplains  of  the Young Christian Workers organisation in Brazil? Has the Australian Ambassador in Brazil ever registered an official protest, on behalf of the Australian Government, with the Brazilian authorities about their treatment of YCW personnel? If not, will the Australian Government consider lodging such a protest? 
I shall seek information from the Minister for Foreign Affairs in relation to the question asked by the honourable senator. Perhaps when 1 have the information I can inform the honourable senator or, if necessary, refer the recommendations contained in the question to the Minister for Foreign A fla i rs. 
1 rise to indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party is in support of this legislation. For the life of me, I cannot understand  Senator Wilkinson's  concern about the effect of a change in the leadership of the Government.  His  concern merely reveals a lack of understanding of the Cabinet system of government. It presupposes that the leader of a government is the man who is responsible for policy. If that happens to be the case, that is something to which we object. The Cabinet determines policy. 
I am prepared to accept that the decision of the Government under the leadership of John Grey Gorton that the concession given to manufacturers and others in respect of plant and machinery purchased for their industries is to cease as from 1st February 1971 was the decision not of John Grey Gorton but of the Cabinet. If someone else is selected to take over the leadership of the Government, whether because of death or some other reason, I accept that this is the policy of the Government and not of an individual member. 
 This is the decision of the Cabinet. I do not accept that this is the decision of John Grey Gorton. This is the decision of his Cabinet. He submitted this to Cabinet - if it emanated from him. lt might have emanated from any other member of his team. 
As my colleague  Senator McManus  says, it might have emanated from the Treasurer. He might have said: We gave this concession in 1962 when we had unemployment and industry was staggering a bit. We did that to stimulate industry and particularly to encourage it to introduce new plant, to bring itself up to date, to modernise its plant and to build up a high degree of efficiency. Those circumstances do not obtain today. Things have changed. There is no justifiable reason for continuing this at the present time; so we will suspend it.' 
With my years of experience in Cabinet, I cannot imagine that these things are oneman decisions. Someone initiates them. It is not always the leader. A departmental Minister can initiate legislation. But finally it is discussed and determined by Cabinet, and every Minister of that Cabinet is bound by the decision of that Cabinet. That is my understanding of the position. The proposition that every decision that emanates from Cabinet is merely that of the Prime Minister is too fallacious to be bothered with. I accept this as a Cabinet decision or a Government decision. This legislation is based on a Cabinet decision. 
 A change of Government is altogether different from a change in the leader of a government. If you change the government you change the whole structure. 
I am just trying to educate some members of the Opposition. If  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson does not want me to do that, that is all right with me. Why should I put myself out to do the job he should be doing? 
If I may be allowed to continue, I wish to point out that, for the life of me. I do not see any ground for straw-splitting in this instance. I accept this as a Cabinet decision. The Cabinet has made a decision and the legislation has come down. I believe that it is timely. I do not think anyone will be hurt by it. People have had the benefit of this 20 per cent tax concession since 1962. 
This will chop them all out. The allowance is to be suspended from 1st February this year. All I want to say is that we members of the Democratic Labor Party go along with this legislation. We believe that it is all right. We are always prepared to help manufacturing industries. Of course, this allowance has benefited other industries. We have a similar concession lor primary producers which is not being disturbed. At this time when the Government is striving to conserve funds and arrest inflation T think it it timely that it should decide to introduce this legislation. The Bill has our approval. 
by leave - On behalf of my colleagues in the Australian Democratic Labor Party and on my own behalf I desire to congratulate sincerely the members of the Senate and the House of Representatives who have been elevated to the exalted and onerous position of members of the Ministry. 
 There is an old saying that the higher one goes up the further one has to fall. I think that has happened to some people. The fact remains, as I was saying when 1 was interrupted, that the position of Minister of the Crown, particularly in the Commonwealth Parliament, is not an easy one; indeed, it is an onerous one. This position calls for great industry and also close application to and knowledge of the problems of the country. 
It is a good thing that people who come into this House get, in most cases, 6 years continuity of employment under the present electoral system because some of those honourable senators who are claptrapping now would not last 12 months on their performances. 
I suppose 1 have been lucky in many ways. However, I am in the position of being able to say that I am probably the longest serving parliamentarian in Australia today, having been first elected to a parliament on 11th June 1932. 1 am still going strong, too. 1 am like Johnny Walker in that I am still going strong and will continue to do so. I have a record of which anyone . would have every good reason to be proud. I was pointing out before I was interrupted that the task of a Minister of the Crown is one which calls for application, assiduity and devotion. I have been asked , by members of the Press media and others to comment on the appointments to the new Ministry and my reply has been that. under the system that obtains when a coalition government is in power it is the. province and the responsibility of the leader qf the coalition government to select his team. He has done that. My only hope, and I think the hope of all Australians who believe that this country merits good government, is that the Government and the. Ministry chosen will prove to be in the interests of Australia and the people who are privileged to live here. 
Before I conclude, I would like to refer to  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin who has served in the Senate for many years and has occupied a position in the Ministry for quite a long time, with credit to herself. We in Queensland have been very proud of her performance and we are sorry that she is leaving Australia, temporarily anyway. I take the opportunity to wish her a very pleasant and successful term of office as Australia's representative in New Zealand. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister any information on the persecution and Imprisonment of members and Chaplains of the Young Christian Workers organisation in Brazil. 
Mas the Australian Ambassador in Brazil ever registered an official protest, on behalf of the Australian Government, with the Brazilian authorities about their treatment of Young Christian Workers personnel: if not, will the Australian Government consider lodging such a protest. 
1 rise to support the Bill and at the same time to deplore the inadequacy of the increase for which ' it provides. I had cause to smile at the 'many reasons given by  Senator Fitzgerald  for the Government's decision to grant a 50c increase in the pensions of the aged, the invalid and the widowed. He said, first of all, that it was due to the want of confidence motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in another place. Then he said that the increase was given to enhance the image and prestige of the new Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  He went further and paid some measure of credit to the urgency motion which I, on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, moved on 16th February, the day following the commencement of this sessional period. 
There were many reasons why the increase was granted, but 1 claim that the urgency motion for which 1 was responsible, and which' was carried in the Senate wilh the support of Labor Party senators, was the main influence on the Government, particularly as it was based on the fact that on 15th December or the,eaabouts- 2 months previously - when I gave notice of my motion the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission had granted, a day or two before, a 6 per cent overall increase in wages and salaries. J thought that that was a most opportune time for the Government to correct the very grave injustice that it had perpetrated in the Budget by giving only a 50c increase in pensions. When the Arbitration Commission decided that the cost of living had increased to such an extent that it should award an overall increase of 6 per cent in wages and salaries, I thought that the Government would take the opportunity to remedy the inadequacy of the increase in pensions covered by the previous Budget. Now the Government has decided to increase pensions by a further 50c. I believe that the increase should be made retrospective to the time of the Budget because an increase of Si at that time would have been the irreducible minimum, having regard to all factors. 1 do not propose to debate the subject of social services at any great length because, as I have said, 1 moved an urgency motion on .1 6 th February in regard to this matter and took the opportunity then, in the limited time at my disposal, to enumerate the reasons why the Government had an obligation in the name of justice to grant a substantial increase in social service benefits. I took the opportunity also to deal with the inequity of the means test and how it has handicapped and even prevented responsible provident citizens who subscribed to supernnuation schemes, both within and without the Public Service, from obtaining any pension in their old age. These people find that their income has been eroded so rapidly by increasing costs that today they are little better off than a pensioner. Because their income is a little more than is permitted, they are denied the important fringe benefits, particularly medical and pharmaceutical benefits, which are received by pensioners on the full rate pension. 1 dealt also with the anomalies which exist in our system of social services, particularly in regard to pensions. I do not propose to repeat all of them but I will emphasise one. For the life of me, I cannot understand why this one is allowed to exist. A man reaches the age of 65 years and, because of the system operating in his place of employment, he is required to pack up and get out. Because his wife has not reached the age of 60 years she is not entitled to any pension or allowance with the result that 2 people have to live on 1 pension. As 1 have said, I cannot understand why that injustice is perpetuated. There are many couples with an age disparity of 7 or 8 years. At that age a woman is not able to obtain employment. 
 As my colleague has said, it is not desirable that a woman of that age seek employment. Probably she has reared a big family and has been provided for by a dutiful husband all of their married life. Whilst he has a moral obligation to maintain that woman, be is denied the opportunity to do so, firstly, because he is forced out of employment due to his years, and secondly, because he is not given an allowance, under the social services scheme, to provide for his wife. She is not acknowledged. She gets nothing except in certain instances, and then she receives what is called a 'wife's allowance'. These are the things which have to be corrected. 
In addition to a substantial increase in pension being required to meet increases in the cost of living, rents and transport charges have increased. This aspect has been mentioned already. Even the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  felt compelled recently to direct attention to the many greedy landlords who put up rents immediately a pensioner receives an increase in his allowance. I do not say that all landlords are greedy. Many of them are not wealthy people. Because of the recurring increases in rates and maintenance costs, they are compelled to increase rents. But there are many others who are in a much better position and who should refrain from increasing rents every time the pension rises. I hope that this 50c is only the forerunner of a more substantial increase at Budget time, or before if it is necessary because of any marked increase in the cost of living. 
When speaking on my urgency motion on 16th February, 1 said that 1 hoped that the pensioners would not be the only section of the community required to carry the burden of solving the problem of inflation. But that would appear to me to be the case in the light of the big increases that are being made in the salaries of governors, chief justices and justices in the various States of the Commonwealth and of highly paid public servants who, I understand, are to have the 6 per cent increase tacked on to their big salaries which have never been the subject of decisions by an arbitration tribunal but are merely the result of decisions of the Public Service Board. Their classifications are determined by high officers of the Crown and, in addition, they receive the benefit of every little increase that is granted by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 1 just cannot follow that. I believe that when the classifications were determined (he Public Service Board would have had regard to the possibility of increases in the cost of living over  a  period. However, their salaries are reviewed regularly and determined very generously. 1 am not a low salary labour man. I believe that we have to pay for brains. I believe in and will support any policy along those lines. But the fact remains that we want to keep a proper balance. To use an old expression: Do not let us just grease the fat pig all the time at the expense of the puny one. 
It is  a  term. It is all right. It does not upset me. Does it upset you? 
Don't you? Then what are you concerned about? 
That :is surprising to me. I would want to have greater evidence than a statement by you on that point.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I promised not to go over the ground that I covered on the 16th February. The amendment moved by  Senator Fitzgerald  receives our support in part; but I desire to submit a further amendment.  . 
The ACTING  DEPUTY.. PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Order! ; ;You are foreshadowing this amendment,, are you? 
Yes. [ foreshadow the following amendment to  Senator Fitzgerald's  amendment: 1 
Leave out paragraph (5) and, insert the following new paragraphs: 
rates of pensions should be determined by an independent tribunal' or committee of experts on social services including pensioner representation;1 
pending the creation, of an independent tribunal or committee to,. determine pension rates, pension payment's should be a proportion of average weekly earnings adjusted annually1. 
Let me just repeat what I said at the outset 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! I point put,  Senator Gair,  that you may move an amendment to an amendment. 1 can accept a further amendment. 
That is what I hat! intended to do originally,  Mr Acting Deputy  President: but you' said that you wanted me to foreshadow it. I acquiesced in and complied with your1 desire. I now move the following amendment to  Senator Fitzgerald's  amendment: 
Leave out paragraph (5) and 'insert the following new paragraphs: 
rates of pensions should be determined by an independent tribunal . or committee of experts on social services including pensioner representation: 
pending the creation of "an independent tribunal or committee to determine pension rates, pension payments should be a proportion of average weekly earnings adjusted annually'. 
Naturally, we are in favour of the Bil), which provides for the 50c increase. We deplore the fact that it is not a more substantial increase. We trust that the Government will make a thorough investigation of  this matter with a view to meting out justice to a section of our people who arc urgently in need of assistance. I am speaking particularly of the pensioner who has nothing but his pension on which to live. There is also the part pensioner or the pensioner who. because he is able to earn something to supplement his pension, is not in as bad a position as the complete pensioner. But, generally, they are all in need of financial assistance in order to live a reasonably comfortable life. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - It does not really. 
Will the Minister representing the Postmaster-General tell me when I might expect a reply to question No.  952  which relates to telephone rebates for pensioners? 
asked the Minister repre- sentingthe Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What percentage deduction, under the telephone rental concession scheme, is allowed to qualified aged, invalid and widowed pensioners 
Does the deduction apply only to the rental portion of a pensioner's account. 
Has the percentage deduction been varied following the last increase in telephone charges; if so, to what extent, and why. 
Has the percentage deduction been previously altered at any time since the introduction of the scheme. 
We have stated a proportion  -  50 per cent of the base rale, the average wage. 
My point at the moment is: Why are average weekly earnings taken as the base or criterion to which the pension should be adjusted? The consumer price index is a better indication of price movements within a community and a better indication of what might be supposed to be the needs of people who have to buy the commodities of which the prices are a reflection. Average weekly earnings merely reflect the average earnings of. wa.ge and salary earners throughout the community. Among those people there would be persons receiving thousands of dollars a year -  hundreds of dollars a week - and those who are on the lowest level. The average would be nothing more than what the phrase itself involves, an average of earnings. Why tha.t should be regarded as a base or criterion to which the pension should be adjusted escapes me. I have heard no considered argument from the Opposition as to why the pension should be tied to average weekly earnings. Movements of average weekly earnings as shown by the Commonwealth Statistician- 
In the main they arc determined by increases in the cost of living. 
Additionally, a factor of some consequence in determining what the earnings shall be are consent awards which are made as a result of industrial action, or threatened industrial action, in which case occasionally there will be an employer who feels that he cannot stand the cost of a strike and so simply agrees to what the unions ask for. All these factors influence average weekly earnings. It is not a criterion of productivity movements in the community and it is not a criterion of what represents the needs or the change in needs of persons who are dependent on the pension. 
That is just one comment by way of challenge to the Opposition that something more than the glib assertion that pensions should be tied to average weekly earnings is required to make it a feasible and sensible guide as to what the pension rate should be. There are so many difficulties involved in the computation and the results which flow from it that it is incredible that the suggestion should have been advanced without the necessary research being done. Additionally, any government would desire to be able to control the amount which it has to place into the national welfare fund so as to be available for pensioners. It must have the ability to determine what amount shall be allocated in the light of its various commitments and in the light of the revenues which are at its disposal. Tying the proportion to the rise or fall in average weekly earnings could involve - one must go further and say would involve - the Government in expenditure commitments over which it would have no effective power. It would inhibit the Government in its economic policies. 1 propose to illustrate that because I think the point needs to be made. If we look at the increase of average weekly earnings over the past few years - we get from the Commonwealth Statistician what the average weekly earnings are in every quarter - we find that in the March 1970 quarter average weekly earnings in this country were $71.30 a week. In the December 1970 quarter, 9 to 12 months later, they were $84.80 a week. If the pension happened to be one-third of average weekly earnings, in March 1970 it would have been $24 a week and in the December quarter it would have been $28 a week. That movement in average weekly earnings would involve, in terms of expenditure on pensions, an amount in excess of $240m. No government could tolerate that sort of situation because involved in it would be a vast amount of Government revenue which would have to be allocated, not as the Government determined that it should be allocated but simply as average weekly earnings moved. 
The movement over the last 12 months, frightening as it is and indicative to Government that action has to be taken to prevent inflationary consequences flowing, would have alarming consequences in terms of what the pension movement should be. I believe that is one of the solid, sound arguments as to why we could not - no . Government could - tolerate pensions being tied to average weekly earnings. The fluctuations are so enormous and dependent upon factors which may affect the higher income wage earners or the lower income wage earners that one could not from that derive any satisfactory indication of what a pension, which ought to be related to needs, should be. . 
This is Labor Party policy at the moment, but I do think it is relevant to bear in mind that there have been attempts in Australia's history to tie the amount of the pension to a consumer price index or a figure which moves supposedly automatically. The first attempt was made in 1933 when variations in the pension were linked to the price index for food and groceries. That experiment lasted only 4 years and it was abolished in 1937 by the Invalid and Old Age Pensions Bill. I have researched previous Hansards to find what was said on that occasion. The then Treasurer,  Mr Casey,  said: 
Honourable members will recollect that in 1933 provision was made in the principal Act for an annual review of the rate of pension in accordance with cost of living variations, and a table was inserted in the Act for the purpose. In July, 1935, in accordance with the movement in the cost of living, the rate of pension was increased to a maximum of 18s. a week. In September, 1936, in connection with the Budget proposals of that year, an alteration was made in the table relating to cost of living for pension purposes in favour of the pensioners, and the rate of pension was increased from 18s. to 19s. a week although the cost of living variation at that time did not warrant an increase of ls.  a  week. It is now proposed to repeal all the provisions which deal with the variation of the rate of pension in accordance with the cost of living. 
What did the Leader of the Opposition of that day say?  Mr Curtin,  who I think was the Leader of the Opposition at that time, said: 
In  this bill  the  Treasurer proposes to eliminate all reference  to  index numbers, so that henceforth the pension will be fixed at  £1  a week and will nol vary except by an amendment of the statute. The Opposition accepts  that  point; it thinks that it is right for the- Parliament to accept full responsibility  for  the rate at which pensioners shall bc paid. 
I draw some comfort from that. I have heard in this place that the old Australian Labor Party was all right but the new Australian Labor Party is not all right. The only doubt I have is that now the Australian Democratic Labor Party, which normally says that, is in line with the new Australian Labor Party thinking. I believe the point which  Mr Curtin  made at that time and which the Government of the day asserts, that it is the responsibility of the Parliament to determine what the rate of pension shall be, is the only policy which a responsible Government could pursue. 
The main purpose  of  this Bill is to give legislative effect  to  the Government's decision to abandon the principle  of  Unking the rate of invalid and old-age pension with the cost-of-living figures, namely, die weighted average retail price index number for  all  items  of  household expenditure. 
One puts this before the Australian Labor Party on the basis that what its own leaders said when it was in government ought to have some weight with its members. The fact that the Australian Labor Party has changed its policy over the years ought to have no real weight, except to settle its existing policy alongside what it did when it found that it had the resopnsibility of government. 
You have changed your policy more frequently with advantage. 
As to the merits of the matter. I point out tha any automatic system of pension adjustment is necessarily arbitrary. When a scale of index numbers is taken and applied to pensions there must be arbitrary turning points. In this case a reduction of I. per cent in the index led, on application of the automatic scale, to a fall of nearly 2 per cent in the pension rate. Beyond that, the scale previously adopted by Parliament made one index, the average of the 6 capital cities of Australia, apply to pension rates throughout Australia. The reason for that was that it was desired that the amount of old-age and invalid pension should everywhere be the same throughout Australia. The implications of this were evidently not generally realised when the scale was adopted in 1942, because it was evident in November, 1943, that it was anomalous that an automatic adjustment system should operate to produce a reduction in pension rate in a place, e.g., Hobart, for which the index had actually risen. Again it was contended that the fall in the index in some places had been so slight that there would have been no pension reduction in those places if they had been on a scale of adjustment on their own index instead of on the average of the 6 capitals. 
He said in conclusion: 
As a result of a further examination of the position, and having regard to the fact that considerable administrative work and many complications arise from the present system, the Government has decided to ask the Parliament to repeal the sections of ,he Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act which provide for the adjustment of the maximum rate of pension in accordance with the variations of the price index number. 
I have mentioned these things because they are part of our history and they are part of the experience of what happened when in 1944 an attempt was made to tie the pension to the Statistician's figures. The statistician's figures showed that there should have been a drop in the pension but the Government of the day was not prepared to accept that position. By regulation - this goes back to the days of the Labor Government - it avoided the consequences of what it was supposed to do by Act of Parliament, because no Government will willingly accept a situation when, in accordance with the Statistician's figures, there should be a drop in the pension because electorally the Government knows that the people would not like it. If there was a drop in average weekly earnings, as there could be because the figures for the last three or four years show that over various quarterly periods it does happen - would the government of the day be prepared to accept a drop in the pension? These are realistic matters. I think they are effective answers culled from experience as to why governments are wary about committing their obligation to Statistician's figures over which they have no control. 
The one remaining point for me to deal with was made by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. The Democratic Labor Party seeks to amend the Opposition's amendment by inserting a provision that rates of pensions should be determined by an independent tribunal or committee of experts on social services, including pensioner representation. Tn the first place, the considerations which I have urged as to why pensions should not be linked to the Statistician's figures apply equally to decisions of independent tribunals. For example, an independent tribunal could determine that the pension rate should increase from $16 a week to $24 a week, and the Government would thereupon be involved in an increase of something like $500m a year. The Government could scarcely go aginst a decision of the independent tribunal. I sense that when Government seeks to put itself in the hands of a tribunal one finds the problems with which the Government has been confronted in relation to the decision of the Arbitration Commission to increase wages by 6 per cent. 
They do that with the Arbitration Court. 
The second point that 1 would make is this: Who would comprise the members of this tribunal? I notice that  Senator Gair's  amendment has suggested that it should be an independent tribunal or committee of experts on social services, including pensioner representation. Who would comprise the committee? 1 suppose, as the amendment refers to a committee of experts on social services, the honourable senator would exclude judges, although he possibly might include  Mr Justice  Nimmo. He would include pensioner representatives, but 1 do not suppose he would include, because he does not specify them, representatives of the taxpayers. The whole point is that, superficially attractive as these proposals are - and f know this has long been a policy of the Democratic Labor Party - in practical terms, the proposals have no attraction for a government which has the responsibility of raising revenue and of allocating the revenue at its disposal among various priorities competing for and demanding expenditure. By this measure the Government proposes an increase in the pension which, in the light of Australia's current circumstances the Government believes can be afforded and should be granted. 
These amendments, which reflect the competing desires of the Opposition parties, do not quality what the Government has done. J suggest that both amendments should be rejected because they seek to take away from the Parliament and from the Government what should be the sole prerogative of the Parliament. These matters should not be committed to independent tribunals because of the consequences to the Government if the amounts of increase are so great that they impose what could be well nigh impossible burdens on the public purse. 

 Senator Gair's amendment to  Senator Fitzgerald's  proposed amendment negatived. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Fitzgerald's amendment)  be added. 
 I regret very much that, because of other urgent and important commitments this morning, I have not been able to listen to all the debate on this very important matter. I heard most of  Senator Turnbull's  speech, most of the speech of the Minister for. Works  (Senator Wright)  who led for the Government and part of  Senator Murphy's  speech. Since then I have been engaged in other business and I have heard very little of the debate. I cannot accept that this motion deals with a matter of urgency. What is urgent about the recognition of Red China?  At  this stage I know of nothing that has taken place which would cause the matter to be regarded as one of urgency. 1 do not accept that the invitation of a few pingpong players to Peking is a matter impol.tant enough to cause the Senate to debate a motion such as this. 
I would think that the recognition of Red China would depend a great deal on the admission of that country to the United Nations - an international community of nations and an organisation of which Red China has not been able to get membership up till now. I would think that recognition is something that would follow her admission to the United Nations. Are we to be conned into the idea that we should recognise a nation that is not acceptable to the nations of the world? Are we to accept a nation that will not conform to the principles of the United Nations and will not adhere to the charter of the United Nations, a nation that has breached every principle of the United Nations? 
There is no doubt in the minds of thinking people, those without prejudice, about the Peking Government's patently clear contempt for the principle of the United Nations Charter, its lack of commitment to the idea of national sovereignty, the peaceful settlement of disputes and nonaggression. The Peking Government, by both its advocacy and its actions, consistently has breached the peace principles of the United Nations, lt has sponsored and supported guerilla warfare across its boundaries against the governments of other countries. Can anyone dispute that? Attempts have been made to dispute it but it cannot be authoritatively disputed. The Peking Government has been involved in land wars in Korea and India and still lays claim to the island of Taiwan. It has used force in vain attempts to conquer Taiwan. Peking should renounce the use of force and acknowledge the right of other nations to live in peace, free of the threat of wars of national liberation sponsored by China, before it is admitted to the United Nations. 

 Senator Murphy, and I think one other honourable senator whom I heard briefly, deplored the fact that the Minister for Works, speaking for .the. Government, outlined the breaches by . Red . China of the peace of other countries - its rape of Tibet, its aggression against India, its war against United Nations forces in Korea. They deplored the fact that  Senator Wright  stated indisputable facts about the aggressive nature of Red China against peaceful countries. And we are expected to embrace this country that is not prepared to allow other countries to live in peace and to conform to the principles  of the United Nations charter, lt is said that this is an urgency matter. I cannot see that it is. 
 I am not talking about Trudeau. 1 am talking about Red China at the moment. You will finish up talking about the red kangaroo if I encourage you. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Order! 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  who has the right to speak? 
-I will give you more than that. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order! 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order! 
If anyone else said that I would be offended. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Mulvihill,I  am asking you to withdraw that remark. 
You do not like the red- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Mulvihill,  I am asking you to withdraw your remark. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Mulvihill,  I am asking you again to withdraw your remark. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - I will have to name you. 
That the services of- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - I will have to order  Senator Mulvihill  to come back to the chamber. 
There was nothing at all. He needs a psychiatrist. 
The Acting Deputy President has, though. 
1 and my colleagues support the Government's proposal. We do so because of the special circumstances outlined by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  As a general practice I would not countenance the sitting of committees while the Senate is sitting, but I recognise the necessity to complete the work of certain committees so that the Appropriation Bills may be submitted to the Senate. That is an essential consideration. We have heard a lot of poppycock on this question from members of the Australian Labor Party. Let us be fair dinkum in our approach to these questions. I know very well, as you do,  Mr Acting President,  that frequently when the Senate is sitting not more than 2 members of the ALP are in their places in the chamber. Repeatedly the Senate chamber has been emptied because of special meetings of the ALP Caucus. ALP senators have left the chamber to attend meetings of their Party. Let them deny that. Yet they say that the Senate cannot go on because meetings of Estimates Committees are to be held in special circumstances. 
Much has been said and repeated about precedent. Precedents are created every day and 1 am not opposed to that. There is an old saying that strong men create precedents and weak men follow them. There is a good deal to be said for that. Let us be big enough to face an issue involving special circumstances. We are approaching the end of this session. We are hearing a lot of humbug about a rush by the Government. The Government is just as eager to conclude this session as anybody else is, so let us be honest with ourselves and with the people when dealing with this issue. 
 I rise to indicate that my colleagues in the Democratic Labor Party and I will support the Bill. Like  Senator Wood,  I must confess that initially I was opposed to the suggestion of an additional Minister for the reason that I felt the need for being assured that the position was not just being created for some member of the Liberal Party. I had recollections of the days when  Mr Menzies,  as he was then, appointed Dame Enid Lyons as Vice-President of the Executive Council. He said at the time that he gave her that position because it was not very onerous and there would be little or nothing for her to do. The public was not pleased to be told by the Prime Minister that a member of the Liberal Party was being appointed as a Minister of the national Parliament because the portfolio was not onerous and would not require any great effort. I have good reason to believe that it did not please Dame Enid Lyons, who was a very active and virile woman of high mentality. It was even  a  reflection on her, but the fact remains that that was the statement made at the time of her appointment. I did not want to see any recurrence of that and I made it very clear to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  that the Bill would not have my support and the support of my colleagues unless the additional position of Minister was a position where some real work was to be done. 
I am prepared to concede that with the passing of the years a lot of new responsibilities are being thrown upon the Government. Previous speakers referred to the environment and pollution of air and water, which have been the subject of investigation by Senate select committees and on which good reports have been submitted. There is the Aboriginal question, which I believe merits particular attention. There are also the other phases which are very important to the cultural life of the country and which have been receiving for far too long merely the fag end of a Minister's day. I think they merit more attention than that. But above all I feel that the Prime Ministership itself is something which merits consideration. I do not believe that any Prime Minister, irrespective of who he is or to what Party he belongs, should be required to devote hours of his time signing vouchers, documents, schedules and things of that nature. 
Well, some of the important Ministers. I agree that some of them are not fully occupied as Ministers. I can recall when there was a move to appoint an additional Minister to the new portfolio of Minister for Education and Science. I supported that appointment because the late Harold Holt who was the Prime Minister at the time had included that proposal in his policy speech. I interpreted the result of the election as a mandate for him to give effect to his promise. What is more 1 welcomed the Commonwealth's entry into the field of education because I was fully appreciative of the inability of the State governments to measure up to the increasing demand that was being made upon them in education even though I was opposed to an additional Minister because I felt that there was room for and that there was merit in an amalgamation of services under the control of the minor portfolios. in relation to this Bill I think the Prime Minister is wise to relieve himself of a lot of the work which he as Prime Minister should not be required to do. The tasks of a Prime Minister of this nation with all its various problems are such that he needs as much time as he can devote to determine policies for the betterment, the growth and development of this country and for the welfare of its people. The calls upon his time by way of deputations, interviews and attendances at public functions from day to day are very considerable. I think the Prime Minister is very wise to endeavour to relieve himself of some of this nonimportant work which up until now has occupied so much of his time. 
The activities of the new ministerial office will be varied in many ways. Just as it will relieve the Prime Minister, it will also relieve some of the more heavily pressed Cabinet Ministers. The new Minister will deal with a lot of matters which could be better dealt with under one ministerial head. Included in the administration of the new Minister will be activities relating to the Australian Council for the Arts; the Australian National Gallery; the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board, the Historic Memorials Committee; the Commonwealth Literary Fund and the Commonwealth Assistance to Australian Composers Advisory Board. All these phases of our community life have become more prominent and their activities have grown into sizeable functions. I think they merit more consideration than they have received up till now. The National Library is a very important and pleasing phase of our national life. I believe that the National Library here in Canberra is a monument to the progress that has been made in the field of libraries and literary works. 
For too long the archives not only in the national sphere but also in the State sphere have received very scant consideration. We are only commencing to realise, as we are growing up and getting older, the great value of and the great necessity for the preservation of our records and historical data. Only if we give adequate attention to these things can we achieve what we want to achieve. Too frequently we have cause to grieve about the failure of our predecessors in government to do this and to do that. It is a great pity that governments in the past have not done this and not done that with a view to preserving the records of this nation, its growth and its development. It is not until we engage in research for some reason or another that we find the absence of a lot of records that should be available to us. The Commonwealth War Graves Commission has done excellent work over the years and the condition of the few war graves that I have had the privilege of seeing is really a credit to its work. I think it should be maintained as long as is required. There is much that could justify the appointment of an additional Minister but that does not eliminate - again I agree with Sentaor Wood - the necessity for the Government at some appropriate time to review the quantum of work associated with each department. 
T am not audacious enough to make an assessment of any of the departments, and it would be audacity on my part because I have never been charged with the responsibility of administering any of them. But I have my opinions based on my power of assessment of work associated with departments. Having been a Minister for 15 years I have some idea of the volume of work associated with particular departments, and I feel that some of the departments - I may be wrong and I am prepared to be corrected - are not busy departments; let me put it that way. They are not departments that command or require the full time attention of the Minister. In the main most of the work is being done by executive officers of the department, and beyond matters of policy which are determined either by himself or by Cabinet on a submission that he makes, and which has been prepared for htm by his officers, he is not crowded out with work. He is not crowded out with the necessity of making many major decisions in a week or a month and hence he could not be classified as a very busy Minister. 
Is there any particular reason why the Department of Housing could not be linked with the Department of Works especially as tourism has been taken away from the Minister for Works and given to the Minister who will be appointed? Is there anything against this suggestion? I do not know. We have to examine these things. Why could not the Departments of the 
Navy, the Army and Air be amalgamated under one Minister, a Minister for Defence, allowing these Departments to function with autonomous powers and independent of each other but brought together under one head? I may be astray in my thinking on this matter but nevertheless I believe these suggestions are worthy of consideration. 
The Repatriation Department is also open to this treatment. Honourable Senators may make their judgments on its administration, but the Repatriation Act shows very clearly that the Minister for Repatriation has little or no power of intervention. All decisions are the subject of examination by medical boards, appeal boards and other boards set up under the Act. All these decisions are taken out of the hands of the Minister. They are decisions of boards representative of the medical profession, the Returned Services League of Australia and others. 1 cannot see that the Repatriation Department is such a busy department that it could not be embraced within the Department of Social Services, particularly if matters relating to Aboriginals were taken from the Department of Social Services and put into the Ministry which will be established. Repatriation could be placed within the Department of Social Services without burdening any Minister. These are my thoughts on this question. However I believe it would be unfair and too much to expect that anyone taking over the job of Prime Minister between elections should make revolutionary changes in his Cabinet set up. No doubt he felt the necessity of relieving himself of a good deal of the time consuming functions and eliminating the hours of signing documents and papers which could be done by an assistant Minister. Also some of the major members of the Cabinet were working at high pressure and could be relieved by an assistant Minister. 
Generally we of the Australian Democratic Labor Party are prepared to support the Bill hoping that the Prime Minister, at an opportune time, will make a complete review of the Cabinet set up. We are all conscious that the nation is growing. There is an increasing demand by the public for additional governmental administration and control of many phases of our daily lives. Our people are relying more today than probably ever before on Government assistance, Government aid, Government direction and Government policies in so many of our fields of activity and growth. As I said, who was concerned about pollution of water or of the air 25 years ago? An occasional complaint might be made about a smoggy morning or the stench from a tannery, but beyond that no complaints were ever heard. But today people are becoming conscious of the problem caused by increased population, motor vehicles and other reasons for pollution of the air and water. Not very many years ago our streams were polluted by the sugar mills. Molasses was allowed to run into the streams before its commercial value was realised. Big factories such as Courtaulds (Aust.) Ltd send their effluent into the streams and destroy the fish life in many places. This has happened in many cases. 
These are new matters which rightly demand the attention of the Government. At one time no-one was concerned about conservation, but there is a lively interest in it today. I think that all of us in varying degrees are interested in conservation and we expect the Government to give a lead and to co-ordinate efforts to solve conservation problems. The Government should not allow people just to please themselves in alienating land and in destroying the natural beauties of the seaside, the mountains and the hills. All these things have to be properly organised, co-ordinated and administered. 
My Party will support the Bill, hoping that the new Minister - whoever he might be - will discharge his responsibilities actively and will handle efficiently the matters which have been entrusted to him. In the meantime we trust that the Prime Minister will make a proper review and assessment of the amount of work that the other Ministers are performing. I know that in any Cabinet some Ministers are overworked and others are not fully occupied. Let us balance them properly and relieve those who are overworked and give a little more to those who are not fully occupied. 
I have listened with great interest to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy),  which was mainly in support of his amendment. It seeks to serve notice on the Government that unless it does certain things in the next Budget the Opposition will reject that Budget. I rise to support the Bill and to oppose the amendment. I oppose it on the ground that I have no reason to be confident that the Leader of the Opposition is as sincere in what he says as he would like people to believe. I question his motive in this matter. In the course of his address the Leader of the Opposition revealed that he was disturbed and upset because I had given notice to the  President  of the Senate in December of last year that when the Senate met 1 was going to move an urgency motion dealing with age and invalid pensions and social services generally. The Leader of the Opposition half implied that it was irregular to have done this so early. Has any honourable senator ever heard such rubbish before? I did it at an appropriate time. I did it following the decision of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to grant the workers in this country - wage and salary earners alike - a 6 per cent increase. What could have been a more appropriate time to remember those on fixed incomes and those in receipt of pensions than at a time when all active workers were to get a 6 per cent increase? I dispatched my notice to the  President  and at an appropriate time the Australian Democratic Labor Party moved an urgency motion in connection with this matter. It also moved a motion in connection with those on fixed incomes - the superannuitants. My Party had the support of the Opposition on both of those urgency motions. 
For the benefit of honourable senators I will indicate the terms of those urgency motions. The first one dealt with the need for the immediate introduction of the necessary legislation to provide for increases in the rates of social service payments - age, invalid and widows' pensions - to bring them to a level compatible with the minimum needs of the recipients, the total inadequacy of the present level of payments having been further exposed and to be exacerbated by the judgment in the national wage case. The DLP connected the national wage case with that motion. The Senate voted in favour of that motion. On 7th April  Senator Kane  moved the second urgency motion, which referred, firstly, to the grave deterioration as a result of inflation in the economic position of senior citizens dependent on income from superannuation schemes or from the investment of savings accumulated by thrift and sacrifice during their working lives and the need for urgent appropriate action to relieve their financial situation and, secondly, the urgent need for an immediate adjustment of superannuation payments to former Commonwealth employees in accordance with the notional salary adjustment scheme and for incorporation in the Superannuation Act of provisions for a regular review of the level of payments. That motion was also carried in the Senate. On 21st April the Australian Democratic Labor Party moved another urgency motion dealing with child endowment but, because of the action of the Opposition, a vote was not taken on that motion. My Party endeavoured to get a vote on it. 
The Opposition has moved the gag on many occasions with a view to getting a vote on its proposals. Therefore the Leader of the Opposition should not pretend to be so pure on this matter of getting a vote on an urgency motion. He would have us believe that it was only a political exercise. The Democratic Labor Party did more than that. We followed it up with a letter to the Prime Minister, attaching copies of the context of the urgency motions initiated in the Senate this year by DLP senators. We also enclosed copies of the speeches of the DLP senators who had initiated these urgency motions. The letter stated: 
The texts and the speeches relating to these urgency motions are forwarded to you, now so you will be aware of them when you and your Government are formulating the 1971-72 Budget. I presume that the details of the Budget will be worked out during the coming parliamentary recess. 
I would ask that you give sympathetic consideration to the matters covered by the urgency motions as they represent 3 areas regarded by the Parliamentary DLP as warranting immediate attention and action. 
We did not allow the matter to remain with a favourable vote in the Senate. We conveyed these matters to the Prime Minister not with any threat but with an appeal for sympathetic consideration and action. What is it that has prompted  Senator Murphy  and his Party, who have prevented us from getting a favourable vote in this Senate on child endowment? What is it that has prompted their sudden solicitude for the recipients of social services? 1 can come to only one conclusion, particularly in view of their past records in this chamber at Budget time when they have had an opportunity to reject Budgets and did not do so. They submitted pious resolutions, copies of which I have at hand, expressing regret and condemning the Government for not providing in the Budget adequate increases in social services. This is the type of thing they have moved: 
At the end of the motion, add 'but the Senate regrets that the Government has failed to: 
increase pension rates sufficiently to enable pensioners to maintain a reasonable standard of living; 
adjust all social service benefits in each year's Budget to meet the increased cost of living; 
That is one amendment they moved. Another amendment was in these terms: 
That the following words be added to the motion - but the Senate is of opinion that the Government should be condemned for its failure - 
to increase age, invalid and widows' pensions and other social service benefits to meet, at least, greatly increased costs and prices, and 
to make retrospective to the 1st July 1965 the increases proposed by the Bill. 
There was no action by the Opposition then to reject the Budget. The Opposition has been content to move pious resolutions and has expected the DLP to support them. 
When we moved substantive amendments asking for the withdrawal of the Budget to have it redrafted to provide for these things, we could not get the support of the official Opposition. We have moved that at the end of an amendment proposed by  Senator Murphy  during a Budget debate the following words should be added: 
And the Senate is of the opinion that the Budget should be withdrawn and redrafted to provide for- 
increases in justice to pensioners of all kinds to compensate for higher living costs; and 
no postal increases pending reconstitution of postal administration under a statutory authority. 
The Opposition did not see fit to support us in asking for the withdrawal of the Budget because of the social service benefits it provided and the increases in postal charges it contained - an attitude which the Opposition supported vigorously when the matter was raised in this chamber. But when it came to a vote on the issue, what did the Opposition do? 
Members of the Opposition walked out of the House. They "would not vote against it. Can honourable senators and the public wonder why I do not place any confidence in  Senator Murphy's  attempt on this occasion to threaten the Government and to threaten to vote against the Budget? In the event of my Party and i agreeing to  Senator Murphy's  amendment, what guarantee have I that he will carry through his action and that he will not walk out and take his Party with him as he did when it came to a vote on the postal charges? 
i am not misleading the Senate. 
 That reminds me that when the Budget was before the Senate last year the Opposition did not vote against the social service section of the Budget. Members of the Opposition did not ask for the withdrawal of it and they did not vote against it until it came to the increases in postal charges, when they voted against the Budget in the interests of publishers and others who were to be affected by the increased postal charges. The Opposition's attitude was: To hell with the social services; to hell with the pensioners about whom they are crying now! But they took positive action in the interests of the publishers on the matter of postal charges. The records of the Senate will confirm what I am saying. 
The record will show that the Opposition has done nothing more than move pious resolutions regarding social service payments over the years. Each year when the Budget has been put before us they have proposed the type of amendment to which I have referred. But there has never been any sup port from the Opposition for our Democratic Labor Party motions for the withdrawal of Budgets - something more positive - and to have them redrafted. It has been content to propose its motions, and now members of the Opposition are asking us to believe that they are the ones who are most concerned with the plight of pensioners. On one occasion since I came to this chamber I endeavoured to get leave to introduce a private member's Bill dealing with child endowment, and I was refused leave by the Opposition. 
 I am not speaking of you personally at the moment; I am speaking about the Opposition. 
 I have been here for only 6 years but I will be here for another 16 years. 
 You have not refused me leave but you cannot deny that at the time I was refused leave you did not register a protest at the decision of your Leader. Let me tell the Senate why  Senator Murphy  has suddenly become concerned about these matters. I can reach only one conclusion. I would like to quote an article which appeared in the 'Bulletin* of 24th April of this year and headed: 'The leaders tagging along'. The article states: 
After he assumed the Senate Opposition leadership in 1967  Senator Lionel  Murphy built up n well-deserved reputation as a parliamentary tactician. Although lacking an absolute majority in the Senate, Murphy was frequently able to weld together a combination of ALP, DLP and Independent - and even occasionally 'rebel' Liberal senators - to inflict a succession of humiliating defeats on both the Holt and Gorton Governments. Even when the Government avoided defeat on the Senate floor, Murphy has frequently been able to manipulate a Senate debate to embarrass the Government to the benefit of the Labor Party. 
But in the past few months Murphy's- and the Labor Opposition's - role as initiator in the Upper House has diminished. It would be unfair - as yet - to say that the 26 Labor Senators have handed over the role of Opposition to the five Senators from the Democratic Labor Party. But they have been fascinatingly  outmaneouvred  by the DLP twice already this year and are likely to be forced to 'tag along' with the DLP again this week. 
The DLP has always carried out a form of guerilla warfare in the Upper House, lt is eminently suited for this role. A small, compact party untrammelled by the rigid dogma of the official Opposition, it has been able to adopt a flexible parliamentary posture that allows it to maximise the potential advantage in a situation without first seeking approval from an unwieldy caucus. Meetings of the parliamentary party can be staged in a corner of the Senate Chamber or, if more formal surroundings are required, the near-chamber room of its leader Vince Gair. Instant decisions are possible and have often been made. 
But in the past the DLP has had to react to the attitudes of the major groups - the ALP and the Government - and then commit itself to one side or the other (or, as has sometimes happened, come up with what seems to be a compromise' solution but in reality is framed in a way that no groupings can get a  majorty).  Last year's senate election changed all that. The election of the Party's Federal Secretary, Jack Kane, to fill the sixth Senate spot in N.S.W., meant that the DLP finally had a parliamentary strength of five - enough to allow it under standing orders, to introduce its own urgency motions and interrupt the business of the House.  1 could go on to read the balance of that article but it is not so pertinent as the part that I have read as to why the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Lionel  Murphy, has suddenly become excited about his position as the great defender of social service recipients. Let me just put the record right. What I have said bears repeating. The Hansard record will show that when we have proposed resolutions to get some positive action on these matters we have been deserted and the ALP Opposition has been content to propose what must be classified as pious resolutions. The ALP in the Senate has a fixed attitude of opposing just about every worthwhile amendment or proposal ever initiated by the DLP. On the other hand the DLP looks at all legislative proposals on their merits and not simply on their origin as does the ALP. In support of my accusation I propose to give details of 8 instances during the period 1966 to 1971 when the ALP adopted a purely party political approach to the business of the Senate and thereby prevented the Senate from acting in a truly effective House of review' manner. 
The 8 instances, which are not the only examples of ALP obstruction, are: Firstly, the attempt to prevent me from introducing a private member's Bill to increase child endowment payments on Sth May 1966; secondly, the refusal by the ALP to assist me to introduce an urgency motion on the Postmaster-General's Department on 20th June 1967; thirdly, the walk-out by the ALP on the Postal Charges Bill on 19th September 1967; fourthly, the opposition to a resolution supporting State aid initiated by my colleague  Senator McManus  on 25th March 1969; fifthly, the attempt by  Senator Murphy  to obtain all the credit for the formation of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse on 25th November 1969. 
 Yes it is. 
 It was not until I went to his office and made my protestations that  Senator Murphy  conceded that we had initiated this, and out of regard for a decision of the Government to appoint a departmental committee- 
 Yes, that was the compromise in the finish. 
 However, you attempted it and you apologised to me because you said-- 
 You were under direction from your Caucus to do it. 
 That is true and I stick to the truth. The sixth instance of ALP obstruction is the ALP's opposition to the DLP amendment to the Address-in-Reply on 11th March 1970. The other two instances are the lack of co-operation with the DLP on amendments to the Homes Savings Grant Bill, as it affected credit unions, on 7th May 1970 and the opposition to the urgency motion " on child endowment, moved by my colleague,  Senator Byrne,  on 21st April 1971. 
Let me give details of these examples of ALP obstruction and bitterness. On 4th May 1966 I gave notice in the Senate of my intention to seek leave on the following day to introduce a private member's Bill to increase child endowment payments. The Bill sought to increase the rate of child endowment payments for the third and later children. The Bill had been prepared privately and at considerable time and effort despite the refusal of the then AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Snedden,  to provide the assistance of the Parliamnetary Draftsman. When I sought leave on 5th May 1966 to introduce my Child Endowment Bill the  President  formally called 'Is leave granted?'. To the amazement of everyone the ALP leader at that time,  Senator McKenna,  called 'No'.  Senator Wright  called 'Yes.' and stated: 'Every member has a right to bring forward a Bill'.  Senator Wright  was correct, for there was no example in recent Senate history of a private member being deliberately obstructed in his attempt to bring a Bill before the Senate. If other honourable senators oppose the contents of a Bill they can vote against it at the first reading, second reading or third reading stages if necessary but it is a traditional courtesy to allow the Bill to be placed on the notice paper. Yet leave was denied to me in my humble efforts to do something for the family man under the heading of child endowment. 
The ALP attempt to prevent the introduction of my Bill was not simply an impetuous response. That Party had a day's notice of the DLP move and surely it was concerned for the welfare of the family man. The ALP's obstruction was deliberate and evidence of this fact is that the ALP Opposition also voted against the subsequent formal motion to grant leave for the introduction of the Bill. The Hansard record at page 801 of 5th May 1966 will bear out that statement. Amongst those who voted against the motion was  Senator L.  K. Murphy, the present Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. The second occasion when the ALP adopted an irrational and obstinate position was on 20th June 1967 when I attempted to introduce an urgency motion calling for the establishment of a statutory corporation or authority to control the operations of the Postmaster-General's Department. At that stage the DLP was represented only by myself and  Senator McManus.  We had not yet received the 100 per cent increase in our representation as a result of the 1967 Senate elections and we did not then have the presence of  Senator Kane  from New South Wales who was elected only last year. There were only 2 of us and it required the support of 3 other honourable senators to initiate an urgency motion. In an effort to obtain the support of  Senator Murphy  and the ALP to assist us in raising this matter, I sent a telegram to him on the Sunday 3 days prior to the date on which I planned to move the urgency motion. In my telegram I detailed the text of my urgency motion. On the Tuesday all the ALP honourable senators remained in their seats and refused to support my efforts to initiate a debate on this subject. Once again the attitude of the ALP was planned and deliberate because it had received ample advance notice from me to determine what its attitude would be. 
The third example of the irrational attitude of the ALP and its lack of cooperation occurred on 19th September 1967. Honourable senators will remember that in May and June of that year the ALP and the DLP had combined to oppose the increased postal charges. The move for increases was dropped temporarily but was re-introduced in the August Budget. The Parliamentary Labor Party decided to contradict its earlier attitude of opposition to the charges and not oppose them on their re-introduction although a special sitting of the Senate had been summoned by the Leader of the Opposition. At the time I said: 'It would now appear that the ALP was not sincere in that earlier posture of opposition. Rank and file ALP supporters will find it hard to accept this changed attitude or to understand the logic behind it, because it is clearly an example of inconsistency. This, I am sure, will react badly on the ALP in the coming Senate election.' 
Is it any wonder that 1 have no confidence in the Leader of the Opposition and the Opposition generally when I accepted them as being sincere in their opposition to decisions of the Government which would cause increased costs to the working class people particularly and to the public generally? We had support from the Leader of the Opposition and his followers up to the point where they had to stand up and be counted and then they left the DLP to fight out the issue on its own. The same thing happened on the State aid question. Of course, I understood that very clearly because most members of the Opposition are by conviction opposed to State aid for independent schools. They are clear about that but they have changed their policy as a matter of political expedience. They find that they have to be onside or they will suffer at the polls. 
I am telling you my attitude on this Bill and I need no prompting from  Senator Cavanagh.  He will be fully occupied trying to discover the murderer of  Dr Bogle  and when he has done that he can come up and let us know just how good he is. For the reasons I have given we do not propose to support the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy.  I think I have made it positively clear that we could not be expected to go along with him on this issue or on any other issue. We as a party are competent to determine what we will do at Budget time in connection with social services. 
I have already informed the Senate that we have taken the opportunity to communicate with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and convey to him the motions that we have moved here as urgency motions. We have sent him texts of the speeches we have made, and expressed our desire for Government action in this connection. As an amendment to  Senator Murphy's  amendment, I move: 
Leave out all words after 'Commonwealth', insert 'should be thoroughly reviewed in the next Budget'. 
I do not think the matter calls for any further statement by me or any further effort on my part. Because of my indisposition I do not find it easy to make speeches this afternoon but I would ask honourable senators to exercise their judgment and make a fair assessment of this amendment. I think they will come down on the side of the Democratic Labor Party. No-one will convince me that  Senator Murphy  was not stirred by the article in the 'Bulletin'. He must have said: 'We have to stop the DLP campaign'. 
Do not tell me that. I will not accept that. The honourable senator will want me to believe in Santa Claus next and I have given up believing in fantasies. There is something wrong with his Press Secretary if he has not seen that statement and I am quite confident and satisfied that that is what stirred him into action.  Senator Murphy  must have said: Well, Gair and his team have taken 2 tricks. They are up with the third. Now they will be getting a good deal of public approbation and approval for their activity, their alertness and their political ingenuity and virility and I will have to get busy. I cannot allow this to go on. I am leading a Party of 26 and here is a Party of 5 running rings around us, humiliating me and humiliating my Party, bringing us into disrepute, destroying our prestige amongst the working class people and destroying the image that we had as the great defenders of the working class people, particularly the pensioners. We have to do something about it.' So what does he do? He decides that the Opposition will not approve of the gag in order to get a vote on the proposal of the Democratic Labor Party in regard to child endowment. He just frustrated us in that connection. The next thing I heard was when members of the Press called on me and asked me what I had to say about  Senator Murphy's  proposal to move an amendment to the Supply Bill to try to box me in. That will be the day when  Senator Murphy  or anyone else on the Opposition side will box members of the DLP in. We are competent to decide for ourselves. 
You probably will not have an undertaker. 
They will probably have difficulty in finding your body. Before I was so rudely interrupted I was saying that the Opposition was attempting to box me in and that is why I said at the time that I questioned the motive behind  Senator Murphy's  amendment I do not think he is sincere and I would feel very unsafe if I had agreed to support this amendment because when we reached the time of the Budget I would be quivering, I would be waiting and I would be watching all the doors to see members of the Opposition walk out of the Senate. I would have memories of the debate on the increased postal charges when Labor senators went here and there very rapidly so as to avoid the question: 'Those in favour say "Aye", those to the contrary say "No".' They left the chamber before the question was put because they did not want to be involved. They did this because the leaders of their Party in another place had said that they could not vote against a money Bill. I met several Opposition supporters who were saying: 'Well, we have been put in an embarrassing position.' They mentioned the names of their leaders and said that they held them responsible for what they had to do. They were humiliated and I felt a little sympathetic, as I am accustomed to feeling for my opponents. I commend the amendment I have moved. 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Will the Minister request the Minister for Foreign Affairs to facilitate arrangements for  Mr Whitlam,  the Leader of the Australian Labor Party delegation to Communist China, to meet his counterpart when he is in that country with a view to ascertaining whether his counterpart enjoys the same measure of freedom, liberty, privileges and concessions as  Mr Whitlam  enjoys as Leader of the Opposition in this Parliament? 
 I rise to support the Bill and to oppose the amendment. I rise more particularly to answer a few of the statements made by  Senator Wheeldon  in his irrational and personally offensive speech this afternoon which was prompted by nothing other than prejudice against the independent schools. In the course of his remarks he said that I hated State schools. That is an untruth, but no more than I would expect from him. From the time I started school until the time I required secondary education, I attended a State school. I have the highest regard for the State school system and appreciate the excellent work of the teaching staff in State schools. I was required to leave the State schools system to obtain secondary education because at that time the State had not entered the field of secondary education. Had it not been for the existence of independent schools, Queensland's young men and women who wanted higher education and those who desired to study law, medicine or other professional subjects would have been lost to the State of Queensland had it not been for the Grammar Schools or the few independent denominational schools available to them at that time. 
I know you do, because I am a real thorn in the side of Communists and strong leftists. We owe a lot to the work of the independent schools not only in Queensland but throughout Australia. Those who have distinguished themselves in medicine, law, architecture or any other profession, until recent years when the State entered the field of secondary education, owe their education and their training to the secondary schools conducted by churches and other independent authorities. That is my reply to the first statement that  Senator Wheeldon  made. He denigrated the secondary school system as conducted by the independent authorities. I would ask him in fairness to compare the results of any public examination ever conducted in any State of Australia. I challenge him to prove that the results of pupils from independent schools are not as good as, if not better than, those of children attending State high schools. Does one need any greater proof than that? 
Now let me talk about  Senator Wheeldon's  amendment. The point that  Senator Wheeldon  and those who support him overlook when they see a discrepancy or disparity in the amounts paid for science blocks to independent schools compared with State schools, is that the State provides the land for State schools but the independent body has to buy its land. The State authority builds the schools but the independent authority has to build its schools without aid from the State or Federal Government. The State pays the salaries of teachers in State schools but the authorities conducting the independent schools have to provide the salaries for their teachers. Is it any wonder that there is a discrepancy in the amount allowed for science blocks between the independent schools and the State schools? That is clear and obvious to any fair minded person but one can understand such an amendment coming from a mind which is as gutter-like and warped with prejudice as  Senator Wheeldon's  is. 

 Senator Wilkinson said that this matter is not a Commonwealth responsibility. That is no great discovery. He is no Christopher Columbus in that respect. But in recent years the Commonwealth has seen the necessity to give aid to the State governments to provide for the additional costs of educating the children in those States. After all. the Commonwealth is the collector of taxation from the people. When I say that the State schools have been built by the taxpayers, that is just what I mean. The parents of. children attending independent schools are not exempt from paying taxation, some of which . is spent on the provision of education facilities for all children, irrespective of religion or whether they went to an independent school. Let us remember when we talk about taxpayers that the parents of children attending independent schools are contributing to the education of children going to State schools, in addition to paying for the education of their own children. In all justice let us examine these things carefully, without prejudice. We will find that, for all the contributions that independent schools have made to education in Australia since the turn of the century and even before, they are entitled to some consideration and a great deal more than they have received from any government up to now. 
No-one could estimate in dollars and cents the value of the work of teachers in independent schools, many of whom have devoted their lives to the education of the youth of Australia without payment at all. Yet we find someone who would have been classified by my parents as an educated fool getting up in this chamber today and arguing that the Commonwealth's contribution to science blocks for the State schools should be equal to that for the independent schools. He overlooks the fact that the State schools are already receiving all those things that I enu merated. Their land is given to them, their school buildings are built for them, and their teaching staff is paid out of the State revenue contributed by the taxpayers - all, without exemption - including the parents pf children attending independent schools. 
 Mr President,  on behalf of my colleagues of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and on my own behalf I tender to you sincere congratulations on your elevation to the most exalted position of  President  of this Senate. We have no doubt about your sense of justice and fair play, or your capacity and ability, to discharge your duties with the utmost satisfaction to honourable senators and with credit to yourself. The task of presiding over any parliament is not easy, but it could be made much easier if members of parliament were more ready to recognise their obligations and duties. I do not suggest that a parliament should be altogether a hallelujah chorus. Nevertheless I believe that on too many occasions in this Parliament, and in other parliaments throughout the Commonwealth, we contribute to our own destruction so far as public prestige and respect are concerned. In our own interests and, more so, in the interests of the Parliament of which we are privileged to be members, we have a very important obligation to discharge our duties in a dignified, commonsense, adult manner and to give earnest and conscientious consideration to the matters that come before us. It is our wish,  Sir, that  you shall be long spared to occupy the position to which you have been elected today and that the Senate of this national Parliament will benefit considerably as a result of your elevation. 
 On behalf of my colleagues and myself I desire to extend to  Senator Prowse  our sincere congratulations on his elevation to a most important position in the Senate, that is, the position of Chair: "man of Committees. The  Chairman  of Committees in any parliament carries a great responsibility for the reason that all amendments to any Bill are dealt with in the Committee stages when the  Chairman  of Committees is in charge of the proceedings. With all due respect to those who occupy the positions of  Chairman  of Committees and Temporary  Chairman  1 would . suggest that when consideration is being given or a vote is to be taken on amendments- to Bills all members of the Senate be taken into the confidence of the  Chairman  or Temporary  Chairman  and informed of what is going on. Too frequently there is a mumbled transmission- of some decision and this is not good enough. Honourable senators cannot hear what is being mumbled in the conversations and dialogue between the  Clerk  of the Parliament and the  Chairman  or vice versa. We would like to hear just what is being submitted and what amendment is being proposed to a clause of a Bill. I suggest to  Senator Prowse  that he can improve the position greatly. It is not because I suffer from any defect in my hearing. As a matter of fact I am too bright for a lot of people on my right and hear a great deal more than they would desire me to hear. Often it concerns one or other of their party and it is not always laudatory. 
That is  Senator Georges  who sits in the main thoroughfares of Brisbane in order to get his photograph in the paper. 
But I have always been able to travel this great continent without any barrier or bars such as a Labor Prime Minister was required to put on you. I have never been regarded as a security risk. It is with due respect to  Senator Prowse  that I make the suggestion that the voice of the  Chairman  should be heard on what is taking place from time to time at the table 
Why not? 
I can understand you being hurt, Harry. 
We are discussing the 1971-72 Budget. As 1 have said here on a few occasions previously, the Budget is the most important statement of the Government's performance. It is the Government's report on the expenditure of money appropriated the previous year, its programme for the future and its appropriation of money under many headings. This is an annual debate which takes place in the national Parliament as well as in State parliaments throughout Australia, lt is not simply an annual report on the national housekeeping, if I may call it that, in which are detailed the collection and distribution of the nation's resources; it is one of the most important documents with which Parliament deals. It is something that has been a feature of democratic parliaments in the democracies of the world. Yet the weekend before last I was amazed to hear a member of the House of Representatives, indeed a shadow Minister, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  say that the Budget meant nothing and that we could do without it. 
1 have already stated his long title and it would only take up my limited time to pay much attention to him because he is a bit subject to flattery. All I can deduce from what the honourable gentleman said is that he is a man with a disorderly mind, because even in a well ordered domestic sphere people budget. They sit down and take into account what their income is likely to be for the year and what their expenditure will be on the commitments they have to meet - instalments on the house, rent, maintenance of the children and themselves, the running cost of a car if they have one. They go into all these matters, which shows that they are orderly minded people. The people of Australia expect our Government to be orderly minded and to present a budget. 
In the first instance, the Government must have parliamentary approval for the appropriation of money. At the end of 12 months it has to give an account of its stewardship, showing how it expended that money. Whether the money was oversupplied or insufficient will come out in the records that the Government presents. For the ensuing year the Government sets down what amount it anticipates it will need under various headings and it seeks the approval of Parliament for this amount. For any parliamentarian to say publicly that the Budget is of no consequence do.?s not show very much good promise for the future of the Cabinet or the Ministry of which he might be a member. 
This Budget is not very different from most Budgets. It is like the curate's egg. It is good in parts. We of the Australian Democratic Labor Party believe that we have cause for some satisfaction inasmuch as matters which we believed merited urgency debates in this Senate, such as pensions, child endowment and a readjustment of superannuation to exCommonwealth employees, have received the attention of the Government. For that we are grateful. 1 shall deal with these matters contained in the Budget as as I go along. But at this stage I say that I do not feel it is a Budget that will win a lot of applause. But, after all, what Budget does. We will always find a section of the Budget which will adversely affect a certain section of our people - a section which will become dissatisfied because of some impost or tax. Last year we had a Budget which surrendered to the taxpayer about $289m in tax rebates. The Prime Minister of the day made a promise during the 1969 election campaign that he would relieve the taxpayers by so much over a period of 3 years. He did it in one year. He did more than he undertook to do in one year. As he said in a recent article entitled 'I Did it my Way', in the same Budget he aimed at eliminating poverty. He gave the pensioners 50c after remitting 5289m to the taxpayers, a big section of whom were people on as much as $32,000 a year. At least this Budget is not remitting taxation. It is imposing an additional tax of  2i  per cent on income. Perhaps that action would not have been necessary had so much not been given last year. 
I heard  Senator Murphy  say that as far as the family man was concerned  2i  per cent would be more than he would gain from additional child endowment. That would be a decision based on a quick assessment, because the average family man - the man I have in mind would have 4, 5 or 6 children - on an average rate of pay does not pay tax at all. By the time he receives a rebate for his wife and children and for various expenses he would not pay tax.  Senator Murphy's  statement was an irresponsible statement made with a view to destroying a feature of the Budget which we should all applaud. The family man has been left behind. He was at a disadvantage compared with his fellow worker who had a small family or none at all, with the single man and even the spinster woman who was doing the same work as himself and receiving the same pay. He was receiving no allowance, or very little allowance. That position had not altered since 1967. That is why we considered it merited an urgency resolution. 
While I do not cheer about the Budget I think I have a responsibility to deal with the matter in a national way and not with a lot of political emotionalism bordering on irrationalism. Let us examine the Budget and see how bad it is. I deplore features of it, which I shall mention as I go along. But does it merit emotional calamity howling that 100,000 people will be out of work by next year? Does it merit the Leader of the Opposition in another place endeavouring to convey to Australia and beyond that our people are in a state of penury as a result of this Budget? We are not. We are a relatively affluent people. With the exception of pockets of poverty our people live comparatively well. 
 I said, with the exception of the pensioners. Who has done more for the pensioners than the Democratic Labor Party? 
 The honourable senator would not know whether we back the Government. Was he here in support of the urgency resolution in the autumn session? No. 
 No, be did not have to be here and he does not have to be here now as far as I am concerned. 
 At least we have tried. We have seen the importance of these things. We stressed the importance of them and we brought them under notice with some measure of success. Our efforts have paid dividends. But all this calamity howling does no good for this country. It will not prove to be of any value. It reminds me of a situation in 1961 or thereabouts.  Mr Calwell  was being interviewed on television. He was questioned as to his prospects at the forthcoming election. The interviewer asked him: 'What would you wish to happen to improve your chances of being the Government?'  Mr Calwell  replied that he would want the angel of death to visit Melbourne. He would like to see a minor war break out, a bit of a depression and a bit of unemployment. That would help him into office. Could honourable senators imagine anything more negative than that? What was said last night reminded me of that occasion. Perhaps the present parliamentary leader of the Australian Labor Party wants a visit from the angel of death to Melbourne because he has a terrific handicap there whom he tried to support last night in his presence. He would like an army of 100,000 unemployed to give him an argument in support of a change of government. I do not think this Budget, even with its weaknesses, merits such calamity howling. This attitude will rebound on the Australian Labor Party. It does none of us any good to go about howling calamity, disaster, and unemployment. 
 Yes, knockers, and it will rebound on them if it is continued with. We are not in the state suggested by the calamity howlers; we live affluently and well. 
 Let me automate now. 
 You would have many wishes about me, but none of them will ever be redeemed. I am not a killjoy, but let us consider the TAB returns and turnover throughout Australia to see how poor we are. For 1970-71 in Australia the turnover of the TAB was no less than $693,748,337. 
 That shows a state of irresponsibility. The turnover of licensed bookmakers was in excess of $700m. Poker machines, which are illegal in all States other than New South Wales, returned to that State $30m in taxes, so consider what the turnover on them must have been. The total expenditure on gambling in Australia was the tiny sum ot $ 1,580m. Yet we hear talk about calamity, the poverty of our people and all this rubbish. Let us deal with these things in a national way and not in an emotional and political manner with a view to achieving some political gain. We should be telling the people what the true position is, and that is what we of the Democratic Labor Party aim at doing. 
1 am always political, but I am not party political to the stage of being biased or prejudiced. I give credit where it is due. After all, the old adage still stands, that deeds speak louder than words. That is of particular relevance when we match up the Government's promises and statements agains the cold monetary provisions of its annual Budget. That is the purpose of the Budget. The role of the Democratic Labor Party at this time each year when debating the Budget has always been constructive. We have always tried to evaluate the Budget against the background of Australia's welfare in its widest sense, including the economic wellbeing of its people as well as the requirements of national security. 
Social services involve those members of our community whose need is greatest. I refer to the aged, the invalids, the widows and their families. These are the people who feel most severely the impact of inflation and who have become the most disadvantaged in our society which is growing in affluence. Their position has been worsened by the increased cost of essential commodities brought about by unwarranted industrial stoppages and strikes, many of which are of a political character. The DLP has severely criticised past Budgets because of the lack of concern for and practical assistance to social service recipients generally. That is why we were determined in the autumn session this year to introduce the urgency resolutions to which I have referred. I note with some satisfaction that in this Budget important steps are taken, although belatedly, to readjust the balance. These steps are inadequate in terms of the full justice that we would desire. I have been saying in this place for years that until pensions and social services are taken out of the field of politics we can never hope to get justice for these people. 
Recipients of social service benefits are humiliated at every election to find that their income is the subject of bargaining from the hustings, one political party offering this and another party offering something else. Let us remove social services from that area. Just as our awards governing the working conditions and wages of our people are determined by competent industrial courts, arbitrators and conciliators, let us set up a. tribunal to deal with social service benefits, a tribunal which can have regard to increases in the cost of living, wage increases and other criteria which are important. That proposal has been opposed by the Government and the Opposition on every occasion that we have brought it forward. The increase of $1.25 a week, taken with the 50c conceded earlier by the McMahon Government, will provide pensioners with an overall increase of $1.75 a week since the last Budget. Such an increase is welcome and is a great deal better than that provided by the last Budget. I believe that it is the greatest increase that has been granted in any single year, but it will do little more than compensate for the rises in costs and prices which have occurred over the past 12 months. 
There are several anomalies with regard to pensions which I believe merit early consideration. Some of them should have received consideration before now. An anomaly to which I refer particularly is the difference between the pension for a married couple and that paid to 2 single pensioners occupying the same residence, home or flat - call it what you will. A man and his wife receive less than 2 pensioner sisters who are living under the one roof and sharing the cost of maintenance of that home. Similarly, a brother and sister living under the one roof would each receive a benefit at the single pensioner rate, whereas if they were man and wife they would receive less. That is wrong. Another anomaly is that a man of 65 years is forced out of work because he has reached retiring age. He might be married to a woman 7 or 8 years his junior, and she cannot receive a pension until she has reached the age of 60 years. As a result they both have to live on his pension. If he does not enjoy good health he would not be able physically to get a job to enable him to supplement the pension up to the limit that is allowed. There are several anomalies such as those that I feel are worthy of rectification because they bring about a great deal of discontent and continue an injustice. 
I refer next to the means test. We have been arguing that the means test is a penalty on providence and thrift, that there are many people in receipt of an income just sufficient to debar them from a pension who are worse off in the ultimate than pensioners because they are denied fringe benefits, namely, free medical treatment and pharmaceutical benefits, rebates on municipal rates, concessionary train fares and bus fares- 
Yes, and a concession on telephone rentals. I am not suggesting that pensioners should not receive these benefits, but people whose income is just sufficient to debar them from a pension because of the means test are infinitely worse off. This is unfair because they are people who had regard for the future, people who while earning paid into superannuation schemes, sometimes at great sacrifice, at the same time as they were required to pay taxation. And what do they find on their retirement? They find that after all they have done, the result of their sacrifices is that they have relieved the Commonwealth Government from paying them an age pension. It is unfair. I have told the story before but an old political tutor of mine many years ago said: Never be self conscious about repeating  a  good thing over and over and over again'. 1 was asked, in the absence of the Minister for Lands, to make presentations to 2 men who had served 50 years in the Queensland Lands Department. As Premier I was asked to make the presentation, as I was pleased to do to 2 officers who had given 50 years service, and the inequity of the means test was brought home to me very forcibly.  Mr A  was married and had no family. The home in which he lived was mortgaged to the Public Curator. He had the minimum number of units in the superannuation scheme - one or two, it would not have been any more.  Mr B  had educated a nice family - a boy in medicine, a girl in pharmacy, a girl school teaching and a boy in the Public Service. Because he was prepared to make sacrifices and take out as many units as he could afford,  Mr B  on his retirement got nothing.  Mr A,  if he did not get a full pension, got the best part of a full pension. That shows the injustice of it. 
1 have been advocating that since the Australian Democratic Labor Party became a political party. National insurance is the only system for a country such as Australia and it is the only solution to our social service financial burden. As  Senator McAuliffe  will remember, we had in Queensland during the bad years when there was a measure of unemployment and a lot of casual employment, an unemployment insurance scheme into which the worker paid 6d. a week while he was employed, the Government paid 6d. a week and the employer paid 6d. a week. When a man was out of work - it was not a matter of charity - he took down his book of stamps and was paid a measure of sustenance until such time as he got another job. It was a mutual benefit society. People like railway employees, public servants and others had security of employment, and we all know that the hardest thing in the world is to sack any Crown employee; he goes on and on. It was a mutual benefit society based on the old principle of the lodge system where the sick were aided by those who had been blessed with good health. Those who had continuity of employment contributed to the payment of sustenance. That is the spirit of a national insurance scheme, is it not? Everybody puts in and those who need the aid of national insurance have something at hand. 
The Democratic Labor Party urges the ultimate abolition of the means test which could be done by progressively limiting its operations to various age classifications within the pensionable age . group. As an immediate step we believe the pension would need to be raised to at least half the base rate to enable the pensioner to live at a reasonable standard, as befits his human dignity. In the long run, however, the Democratic Labor Party believes that a contributory national insurance scheme against sickness, widowhood, unemployment and old age is the only answer to the growing financial burdens of a social service system based on a means test. 
I note with satisfaction the Budget adjustment of Commonwealth superannuation payments in accordance with the notional salary adjustment system. Honourable senators will recall that that was the subject of a matter of public importance raised by my colleague,  Senator Kane.  I would point out that the Budget fails to ameliorate the restrictive operation of the means test in relation to private superannuitants and the real hardship that may occur as a consequence. In my speech on last year's Budget 1 pointed out that it was the family man on a low income with 4 or 5 children or more who was particularly in need of the Government's concern and assistance. Therefore, the Democratic Labor Party is particularly satisfied to note that the increases in child endowment in this Budget are to apply to the third and subsequent children. As studies in poverty constantly have shown, this kind of increase is socially justified. 
 Yes. I suppose if my mother were alive she would like to think it was made retrospective. But we do not have all those things. This kind of increase is justified and is one of the ways of assisting one of the most deserving and significant groups the members of which are forced in live in close proximity to the hardship level. While this Budget makes some progress in reducing injustices in the family field, the present payments remain quite inadequate. It is interesting to compare the family allowance in France with our own. Under the present Budget increases an Australian family with 5 children will receive $27 a month as against S82.48 in France. The French maternity allowance is $127.88 as against the present totally inadequate Australian allowance of $30 to $35. 
They are not more valuable than our own. The Democratic Labor Party would like to see the capitalisation of child endowment, the updating of the homes savings grants, as well as provision for marriage loans rebatable on the birth of children. 
I come now to a very important question that supersedes everything else, and that is our security because all the things about which 1 have been speaking are worthless and not worth the paper on which they are written unless we can feel secure as a nation. I come to the question of defence. My earlier remarks that Budgets often provide valuable clues to the way governments think on important issues have particular relevance to the question of defence. In a real sense the defence vote is the insurance premium that a nation is prepared to pay to cover future contingencies and threats to its national survival. Only one who disregards the possibility of any danger or regards it with indifference will reduce or fail to increase where necessary the premium he is required to pay. It is true that in monetary terms the defence vote has gone up by 10.3 per cent, that is, by $117m. But, of course, $66m of this increase will be absorbed in new Service pay and salary rates, as recommended by the Kerr Committee and which my Party frequently has advocated as an indispensable need for the attraction of young people to the 3 wings of our Services. Such Service pay increases have long been urged by us. There is an increase this year of S3 2m in expenditure on new capital equipment and works and an amount of S6.2m to develop the naval base at Cockburn Sound. 
What is the background against which the defence vote must be judged? There have been some momentous events over the past year. Have they been such as to increase Australia's security? Have we consolidated our alliances with our more powerful friends? Have we secured new and trusted allies? Are our vital sea lanes more secure or less secure than they were 12 months ago? The facts, however hard attempts are made to disguise them, are otherwise. The twilight of British power has deepened in our immediate north. The United States of America is clearly about to wind down and leave behind its Vietnam presence. The United States President is about to journey to Peking to do some hard bargaining with Communist China. About what, I wonder. Concerning whom, I also wonder. We do not know. Whatever emerges from the dialogue between the United States and Communist China its shadow has already been cast over Asia. Japan is showing deep concern and the clear view of other Asian nations is that the Nixon Doctrine, which current United States moves clearly represent, carries a simple message. It is a message which, observing this Budget, I really doubt that the Australian Government has yet understood. The message is: 'In future danger we will help you but not by military power. We will be concerned that the nations to receive such help are those with the greatest defence self reliance and those who have attempted to organise regional defences of their own.' I believe that is the message of the Nixon Doctrine. 
Already India has concluded a 20-year defence pact with Soviet Russia. India has been thrown into the arms of Russia. I have no doubt that Russian arms will be thrown into India. This pact may well cover, whatever is said, fuelling if not base facilities for Russian naval forces in the Indian Ocean. Therefore Australia's need for a naval presence there is overwhelming. So also is our need to build up a maximum defence self reliance. Whatever recent events prove, one thing is clear - that this nation will almost certainly have to face whatever threats the coming decade brings by relying only on our own strength. The days of great and powerful friends now belong only to history. 
Against this background, what does the defence appropriation do? There is to be a decrease in the size of the Army, according to a recent statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  following the decision to shorten the national service term. Despite the defence increase in monetary terms, the true position is that the defence vote expressed as a percentage of the gross national product will now fall to 3.21 compared with 4.28 in 1967-68 and 3.23 last year. There is no provision whatever for the beginning of a light destroyer programme, essential to any Australian naval strength in the Indian Ocean. Of what use is Cockburn Sound without ships to use it? There is also no provision in the Budget for the purchase of new transport aircraft, air transport or medium lift helicopters, the equipping of the Army with modern tanks, medium range artillery or the computerised electronic equipment which a modern army needs for fire control and surveillance. 
There is also no adequate provision that I can see for increased army accommodation - I shall be pleased if the Government corrects me - rendered urgent by the proposed Vietnam withdrawal. I cannot see, either, any provision for attractive reengagement incentives to keep even the reduced Army at maximum strength efficiency. The problem of so much modern military hardware is not only that its cost continually grows but, more importantly, there is a significant time lapse between its ordering and its delivery. This is especially true of naval ships. I therefore express my Party's real concern that the Government appears to be making no provision at all for this fact. 
Clearly the Democratic Labor Party is deeply concerned at the Government's whole approach to defence as shown by an analysis of the Budget. If the Government really believes that Australia is not worth defending or that recent events have indicated that all is well and there is no need to worry, let it come out and say so. In that case it will find some ready supporters in this Parliament but I am happy to say that members of the DLP will not be among them. I will content myself with those few observations on the important question of defence, which means our security and the preservation of the freedom we enjoy, our social services and other benefits. 
The Budget's largest increase represents payments to rural industries, and most of the increase goes for the wool price support scheme with an average price of 36c per lb. The DLP has been greatly concerned in recent years at the plight of the rural sector, and especially at the position in which farmers and their families on small and medium properties have found themselves. Squeezed between contracting world markets and rising domestic costs, thousands of rural families have been forced through crippling debts and falling incomes into leaving the land and migrating to the capital cities, thus adding to the congestion in the metropolises, where the municipal authorities are burdened with the financial obligation to provide transport, roads and footpaths, water reticulation, guttering, electricity and so on. People who were born and raised in the country are now leaving the land which was worked by their fathers. 
It is not a good picture. I hope that the wool support scheme will prove to be of advantage, but we urge the Government to institute an expert commission of inquiry into the whole of the rural industries. Nothing short of that will determine the merits of particular cases and the extent to which they should be aided. We would not then have the cry that the big man will get the lion's share of what the Government is to distribute, at the expense of the small man. Let us proceed with this scheme as a temporary measure and in the meantime let us have a full and complete inquiry, as we have advocated all along. Then we would know who is who and what his position is. There are some people in this Parliament - if not in the Senate, they are in the other place - who would not give a second thought to the wool growers except that at one stage in their lives they received 240 pence per lb for wool. 
Well, whatever the figure was, the critics live on that argument. As a representative of the people I know of those who walked off their properties in the Longreach district. In the case of one family, the son is in Brisbane selling real estate in an attempt to maintain his wife and family.  His  mother, who owned a two-thirds share of the property, after my representations has obtained a partial old age pension. I could mention similar cases. I know Australia well, and I know Queensland, my native State, as I know the palm of my hand. I hate to visualise what would happen to Queensland if our rural industries were to fade and ghost towns were to appear. What a great tragedy it would be, not only for Queensland but for Australia generally, if our rural industries failed. When the S25m rural reconstruction scheme was introduced I described it as chicken feed and pointed out that the average assistance of $1,000 for farmers eligible under the scheme gave no incentive to men on unprofitable farms to go through the difficult and often harrowing task of finding employment. Longer term remedies are required urgently. For that reason I am disappointed that the Budget makes no provision for the establishment of a rural finance corporation, which my Party has frequently urged. Such a body would overcome the caution of State reconstruction bodies. It would lend generously on long term and provide for repayment moratoriums for all kinds of reconstruction and adjustment projects. Of equal importance, it would make finance available not only for farm adjustment but also for rural readjustment so that service industries and businesses in rural towns could also reconstruct if necessary. We speak about the graziers but we must remember that they are not the only people affected by falling prices, ever-increasing overheads and droughts. The garage proprietors, the grocers, the merchants, the chemists and others in the towns; - all of them - also are affected. They have given pretty generous credit to those on the land who must be taken care of in any reconstruction scheme. 
Let me say in conclusion that the Budget, while it tries in some fields - social services, is an example - to make up for the omissions of the past, is seriously defective in its provision for Australia's likely defence problems of the 1970s. It still leaves untackled other problems such as rural reconstruction and an equitable basis for determining pensions. The Budget suggests an absence of long term thinking and planning by the Government. Perhaps it should seriously consider the need to do this. Then and only then will problems such as the Common Market and defence be met by anticipation rather than by the stop gap methods which frequently pass for statesmanship in the minds of some people. 
As  Senator Murphy  already has moved an amendment to the motion for the adoption of the Budget papers 1 foreshadow a further amendment which will be moved following the disposal of  Senator Murphy's  amendment. The foreshadowed amendment is as follows: 
But the Senate expresses grave concern - 
That the Government's Fiscal and Monetary policies will not prevent a further erosion of domestic purchasing power whilst maintaining full employment; 
That the inadequate defence vote reveals the Government's failure to appreciate the deterioration in Australia's strategic situation caused by recent world events including failure to provide the necessary, supply and logistic support programme; 
That the Budget makes no provision for a comprehensive national insurance scheme; 
The Budget again fails to remove pensions from the area of politics by setting up an independent tribunal of experts to determine pension rates which would make a more equitable adjustment than does the provision in the Budget; 
The Budget fails to ameliorate in a substantial way the restrictive operation of the Means Test especially in regard to private superannuitants; 
While offering some short term relief to primary producers, the Budget fails to provide for the establishment of a National Rural Finance Corporation equipped to provide immediate financial relief by way of long term loans at low interest rates with interest and redemption-free periods and also fails to provide for the necessary examination of the whole structure of rural industry by an expert commission of inquiry which could advise the Government on the application of fundamental long term remedies; 
The Budget offers no adequate provision for decentralisation. 
 I address my question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. How much did the Australian Broadcasting Commission pay  Dr Ehrlich  or his sponsors for his appearance on the ABC television programme Monday Conference' on 30th August and 3rd September, and on the ABC radio programme 'Guest of Honour* on 5th September. Is it correct that  Dr Ehrlich  normally charges a lecture fee of between $1,200 and $1,500 when he makes public appearances in the United States of America? Was the organisation known as Golden Products associated in any direct financial way with the Australian Broadcasting Commission's presentation of  Dr Ehrlich  or his visit to Australia? Is Golden Products the organisation which paid for a quarter-page advertisement in the Brisbane Telegraph' of 3rd September, publicising the repeat telecast on ABC television of  Dr Ehrlich's  interview about population and pollution? Is the Minister aware that threats have been made against 2 persons associated with the Melbourne television programme 'Dateline' which in a recent edition exposed the sales techniques of the American pyramid selling organisation known as Golden Products. 
With the exception of defence and security legislation, I feel that this Bill is the most important that we will be required to deal with in the course of this session. In a country such as Australia, which is relatively affluent, indeed in any country that has a way of life based on Christian principles, it is obligatory and imperative that the poor, the aged, the invalid and those who are in need of our assistance be cared for. Christ said that we will always have the poor with us. He also said that it was our obligation to show charity towards them. Social services might be regarded by some as a charity, but in effect people contribute to it in the taxation that they pay during their active working lives. Nevertheless there is a very definite side to the work of the Department of Social Services which could very properly be brought under the heading of charity. Unfortunately, because of the weakness of human nature, there is a very deep seated feeling of selfishness within all of us. The 'I'm all right, Jack, to hell with you' attitude is adopted by too many people. I feel that the majority of people appreciate the need to take care of the aged, the invalid, the sick and the widowed. 
In this field a great burden has been lifted off the shoulders of governments, which means the general taxpayer, by religious organisations which have taken the responsibility of caring for these people. If it were not for that dedicated service provided in institutions for the aged and tha infirm, in hostels for the dying and in similar places, the burden on the general taxpayer would be considerably higher than it is today. I sometimes wonder whether governments are fully conscious of that of which they have been relieved and whether they are adequately compensating these people who dedicate their lives to this type of work in the name of Christ and charity. When I was the Premier of a State I used to say to my Ministers: 'Be generous to the denominations in their work for the orphaned, the aged and others because they can do a job that we could never hope to do on a 40- hour week basis, with all the other things that go with the control of a State institution'. I have been associated intimately with social services, and I know this to be so. We must be interested in social services. 
I was saddened when the debate on a subject as important as this was marred by the irresponsible guttersnipe language that was used. Charges were made against  Senator Webster  allegedly because of his disinterest in the problems facing unmarried mothers.  Senator Webster  might not thank me for this, but let me say that no family in Australia is doing more for unmarried mothers than  Senator Jim  Webster and his wife. He gives an unmarried mother a home and good care preceding the birth of her child. Yet he was subjected to this rotten, cheap, guttersnipe insult. I take exception to it. I hope  Senator Webster,  whose politics are not the same as mine, will not mind my mentioning that. The references to myself matter little. I have been insulted by experts. I am not concerned at what  Senator Keeffe  said about me. I will confidently pit my private and public life against  Senator Keeffe's  at any time. So I will not waste very much time replying to what  Senator Keeffe  said. All I did during his speech was, firstly, to draw attention to his unfair remarks about  Senator Webster. 
I have spoken about the increasing evil of men walking out on their wives and leaving them to the State to maintain and nothing being done to correct the situation because governments are not prepared to expend money on the extradition of these people from one State to another. The governments know where these people are, but they will not bring them back to their home State to make them stand up to their obligations. I have spoken on that repeatedly. Cowardly men walk out on their wives and children, go to another State and get a job. The authorities know where they are but never bring them back to justice. They are allowed to get away with it. When  Senator Keeffe  was speaking about the unfortunate deserted wife I asked him whether she was one of those about whom he spoke 12 months or so ago who were prostituting their bodies to get an  income.  He became very irate as if that was a charge against him. I read now from Hansard of 22nd September 1970, almost 12 months ago except for a few days.  Senator Keeffe  said: 
I have said publicly previously, and I say again, that the Government is driving some of these women to a desperate position where rather than see their children starve they will sell their bodies for a night a week. 
What a terrible libel of decent people who are bereft of a husband or who have been deserted. He may know of one or two cases but he puts all those decent women into a class of prostitution. When I asked him about it he became very disturbed. I suppose it is normal for him to be upset on being reminded about his irresponsible charge against these people. That is as much time as he merits. I will let the public judge just what is his position. 
In a country like Australia we must have regard to the necessity for adequate social services. Whatever Budget is brought down we will find deficiencies and inadequacies in it. I suppose that if I were to say that this is a relatively good Budget in respect of social services I would be charged with having consented to the Budget. I believe that the social service provision is infinitely better this year than last year when pensioners received a rise of 50c a week in the same Budget that provided for a 10 per cent reduction in income taxation. It was all out of balance. That reduction in taxation carried on in a graduated fashion down to about 4 per cent in the very high salary group, it is true, but pensioners received an increase of only 50c a week which was a complete insult having regard to the cost of living. It is infinitely better this year particularly when one takes into account the April increase of 50 cents which, combined with the present increase of $1.25 a week, increases pension payments to the regular and full pensioners by $1.75 a week this year. 
I am happy with some of the Government's actions in the field of social services. There are many reasons why this Bill is important. Firstly, it makes financial provision for those people who are unable because of misfortune, age or illness to maintain themselves in human dignity. Secondly, by means of this Bill the wealth of our society is transferred to those sections of the population who are in the greatest need. Such a provision is the measuring rod of the nation's moral concern for our less fortunate citizens. Thirdly, the provision for social service benefits raises again the economic feasibility of Australia's whole welfare system, which is a non-contributory system based on the means test. The provision for social service payments in the coming year rises to about $l,182m, an increase of about 14.5 per cent over expenditure last year. 
Fourthly, the family allowance provision, including the increase in child endowment payments to the third and subsequent children, represents rejection through the national Parliament of the new doctrine summarised in the slogan 'Pollution is People'. Surely the presumption on which any family allowance system is based is that people are important, but it seems that to some sections of the community people matter little. In a debate in the Senate the other night some honourable senators cried about the value of life and the need to abolish provision for capital punishment from the statutes of the Commonwealth Territories. The same people who are so incensed about the taking of life on the scaffold or anywhere else are those who have included in their programme and policy abortion on request. There is no compunction about destroying life in the embryonic state, but it is a different matter for a criminal to die. I am not saying that I am in favour of wholesale capital punishment. There is nothing more gruesome than the destruction of life, but I am pointing out that the submissions of those people do not merit consideration at all because of their inconsistency. A similar position has applied in the Senate over the years in relation to social services. We. of the Democratic Labor Party have moved amendments for the withdrawal of the Budget to provide for a greater increase in pensions. Where have those people been then? We have advocated for years that pensions should not be determined by the parties in government because it places a degree of ignominy on recipients of pensions. At every election time and every Budget time the income of the poor old pensioner is thrown into the field of discussion. Is it fair that these aged and sick people should have their income having children born under decent conditions. 
On no fewer than 8 occasions we have moved amendments to have this delicate matter of social services taken out of the field of politics and given to an independent tribunal of competent people, with a representative of the pensioners sitting on the tribunal, such a tribunal would have regard to the criteria of wage and price increases and all other relevant material in making a determination. That is the way our wages and salaries system operates but evidently for social services it is not acceptable either to the Government or to the Opposition. 
Last night we heard  Senator Willesee  make one of his unusual speeches for a short time. He denigrated the Democratic Labor Party because of our advocacy of an independent tribunal.  Senator Willesee  will not object to the announcement made today by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  that his salary should be determined by a judge, by a tribunal who will say whether the salary of Parliamentarians should be increased. That will be acceptable to  Senator Willesee  and members of the Australian Labor Party but it seems that it is not good enough for the pensioner. It seems that the pensioner's income should be the subject of discussion and bargaining by political parties. It is not good enough. These people merit more. They are worthy at least of having their incomes determined in a dignified way by competent people. 
We of the Democratic Labor Party have been particularly interested in the provision for increased child endowment. Child endowment was last increased in  1966  or  1967.  We claim to have been responsible for a great and important departure in the matter of child endowment. We were able to influence the then Treasurer, who is now Prime Minister, as to the necessity to alter the rate; instead of having a flat rate, to alter it to provide an increased amount for the third and subsequent children. We were successful and we have also been successful in obtaining recognition at last of the necessity to increase child endowment in this Budget. An urgency motion was specifically moved by my colleague  Senator Byrne.  I am glad to say it paid dividends. Parents will now get for every child in excess of their second an additional 50c a week. That increase will be of benefit to those people who recognise the necessity for and the importance and wholesomeness of having a population of our own and of having children born under decent conditions. 
According to  Dr Paul  Ehrlich and the deliberations of the Australian Labor Party's convention in Launceston this increase is unwarranted and unwholesome. According to them it is selfish to have more children. It would appear that the Australian Labor Party takes the view that there should be a reduction in our natural birth rate and we should break down on our immigration policy. For what is this in preparation? Is it in preparation for an influx of specially selected people in the event of the Australian Labor Party becoming a government? I become suspicious when I find a major political party adopting such attitudes towards population. The greatest asset this country has is its youth. Every time I see young children I say: 'Glod bless them'. It will be their responsibility in the future to maintain democracy in this country. 'God bless them' I say again. The more we have of them the better. The more assistance and encouragement I can give to parents to bring young Australians into the world the better pleased I will be. It is nonsense that a country of Australia's size should have a population of less than  13  million. How can we morally or logically hope to maintain this country from the overflowing populations of the countries to our north if we do not try to populate it. I know that an increase in our population brings with it responsibilities and expense in the fields of social services, education and so on, but it is a challenge for us to meet these problems. Who are we to run away from them? Do we not have some obligation to meet this challenge? We have lived relatively comfortably and we have had protection for so long. It is time we faced up to such a challenge. 
I am one of a family of 9 that grew to adulthood. My mother bore 11 children. She received little aid from governments. We were an average working class family. I am glad of that because it taught me much. The adversity and the do-withouts that I had to put up with have given me a proper realisation today of what other people have to put up with. I have not suffered as a result of my experience. It has given me a better appreciation of life. It has given me a better appreciation of my fellow man. lt has given me a better appreciation of the country in which I live; the country that has given me freedom and liberty; the country that has given me the opportunity of doing something, feeble as though it may be and unrecognised as it will be for people I represent. Surely the presumption on which any family allowance system is based is that people are important and of intrinsic value and are not merely stepping stones to disaster. 
I repeat that the increase of $1.75 a week in pensions since the last Budget is welcomed, even though it will do little more than compensate for the rises in costs and prices which have occurred over the last 12 months. But 3 criticisms of the pension payments need to be voiced again otherwise the present anomalies and injustices will remain. Firstly, pensions should be taken out of the field of party politics. I have harped on this subject since I came into this chamber. Until changes are made I will continue to voice my opposition to the present system. I repeat that recipients of these benefits are humiliated at every election to find that their income is subject to public political bargaining. That state of affairs will continue, in the Democratic Labor Party's view, until pension rates are determined by an independent tribunal. 
I was hoping that  Senator Willesee  would return to the chamber before I concluded on this subject because I do not relish being critical of somebody in his absence. But I make allowances for his absence. I suppose the violent little speech he made last night exhausted him.  Senator Willesee  protested in horror the other evening at the mere suggestion of a tribunal determining social service benefits. The sincerity of  Senator Willesee's  protestations can be judged by the statement in the Canberra Times' of today's date that the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  wrote to the Prime Minister on Monday suggesting that an independent commission should inquire into parliamentary salaries. I have made a number of references to this matter already. Apparently the Australian Labor Party believes ;hat an independent tribunal should fix the salaries of parliamentarians, wage earners, doctors and so on but rejects the application of such a principle insofar as pensioners are concerned. Apparently the Australian Labor Party would prefer the present system to remain in force so that that Party can gain political capital at an election out of any increase. The Australian Labor Party does not come very well out of a comparison between pensions and wages at the time of the Chifley Government - I was a member of the Australian Labor Party at the time - and now, particularly when one has regard to the additional fringe benefits that are granted to pensioners today. So the Australian Labor Party has not very much to protest about. However, that does not console me any for the Budget not providing more for the less fortunate sections of our community. 
There is a clear need in justice to rectify the number of anomalies that exist in pension payments. There are 2 anomalies in particular to which I wish to refer. I think I might have made brief reference to them in my contribution to the debate on the Budget. One is the difference between the pension paid to a married couple and the amount received by 2 single pensioners occupying the same residence, home or flat. A man and wife occupying a home would get less than 2 people - they could be brother and sister or spinster sisters - who share the responsibility of the maintenance of the home, paying rates and other things. Two single pensioners under the same roof receive $34.50 a week against the amount of $30.50 a week that a married couple receive. I suppose it would be wrong to suggest that at that stage of life a man and woman in a state of de facto relationship could get more than 2 people who are legitimately and properly married, but that is the position. However, I will dismiss that from my mind. I shall instead examine the matter from a practical point of view. 
Two spinster women or a brother and sister who go on living in the old family home would receive more in pensions than a married couple does. When one considers that food, rent and other costs are the same for both groups it becomes obvious that the married couple are at a clear economic disadvantage. Why? Because someone said that 2 can live more cheaply than one. The married couple has to maintain the home, pay the rent, the food bill and the electricity bill. How do they live more cheaply than 2 single people living under the same roof? I find that difficult to reconcile. I think it is something that should be gone into. There might be some theoretical explanation of it, but it is not acceptable to me. 
The second anomaly is that of a man of 65 who is forced to retire from work because he has reached retiring age. If he is married and has a younger wife, she cannot receive a pension until she reaches the age of 60. In the event of the husband not being strong enough to go out and get another job, they are compelled to live on a single pension. It is wrong. The wife could be 57 or 58 years of age. Is it fair to ask her to go out and look for a job after she has dedicated and devoted her life to bearing and rearing children? The children have probably gone out and taken up their own responsibilities for their wife and family. Is it fair to ask a woman of 57 or 58 to go out and work? I remember saying to a woman in those circumstances - she was a big, strong, buxom type of woman: 'What is your state of health?' She replied: 'Never better in my life'. I said: 'I was about to suggest that you might go and see whether you could get an invalid pension'. She said: There is nothing wrong with me, and you are not going to ask me to go and tell lies at this stage of my life to get something which I believe I am justly entitled to. My husband is morally bound to support me.' He had pledged himself to protect and provide for his spouse, but the system under which he works throws him out at 65. The Government says: 'We cannot afford to keep you and your wife. We will give you a pension and you can work it out.' That is unreasonable. Something has to be done about it. 
If one discusses the matter with the departmental officers - they are people for whom we have the greatest regard- one finds that the only alternative to an invalid pension is to register for employment and seek the unemployment benefit. The chances are that the woman might be asked to take a job. Because it is unsuitable to her at her age and is distant from her home, she has to reject it. Having rejected it, she forfeits her right to sustenance. I think there has to be a better and more reasonable attitude, particularly in relation to those people who are very close to the age of 60. Anyway, if a husband is 65 and his health is not good enough to enable him to look for another job, he is at least entitled to have the companionship, care and protection of his own wifi. Her place is in the home. That is where she belongs. 
The DLP urges the ultimate abolition of the means test, but we are practical enough to know that it cannot be done overnight. We believe it should be done by the progressive limitation of its operations to various age classifications within the pensionable age group. While its total abolition for eligible persons 65 years and older is estimated to cost $305m per annum, the annual cost of its gradual elimination would be quite manageable. For example, to exempt eligible persons 80 years and over is estimated to cost $30m per annum, 79 years and over $40m per annum, 78 years and over $45m per annum, and so on. In its present form the means test, as I pointed out in my speech during consideration of the Budget, is a penalty on providence and thrift and acts to debar from a pension many people who are worse off ultimately because they are precluded from fringe benefits. Why cannot the present system be liberalised so that borderline cases can be at least given some of the fringe benefits, especially medical and pharmaceutical benefits, which are particularly important to aging people? 
I have already made a few remarks regarding child endowment. I have expressed the view on a number of occasions that the DLP is particularly satisfied with the form of child endowment increases in this Budget. The family man has been overlooked for too long. Our wages system provides that a single man is paid the same rate as a married man. It goes further by providing that a female who does the same work as a man receives the same wage as a man. A married man with a wife and children to maintain receives the same income as a single man or a spinster woman who have neither chick nor child to keep and who have obligations to nobody. So the child endowment scheme is the only way in which we can maintain any measure of justice to the fellow who is married and who is sincerely trying to do something for his family. He is educating his children and helping them to go into a profession or calling so that they might serve their community in their own time. He is expected, unless he receives a generous child endowment, to maintain those children and maintain his home on the same wage as a single man or a spinster woman who have neither chick nor child to keep. 
Of course, the justice of this situation must appeal to people, but unfortunately it goes overboard with so many and is overlooked for too long by governments. The day that we reach the point of believing that the family unit has no value in our society, our society will finish in hell itself. It might be a hackneyed expression, but the family unit is the basis of our society. This is as true today as ever before, in spite of all the permissiveness that has developed around us in recent years and in spite of the attitude of many parents towards their children today. They believe that children should have full expression of their feelings and that discipline is something that went out with their grandfather, and so on. All of those things are destroying family life which in turn will mean the destruction of our society. The sooner that the family gets back on the proper road the better. 
Let us have a little more of that old time discipline in our universities, in our schools and in our homes. Let us get back to teaching children to respect those who are older than themselves and superior to themselves. Respect is something that one sees rarely today, whether it be respect for authority, respect for the law, respect for parents, or respect for anything. Respect has been replaced not by requests but by demands; demands for this and demands for that; demands for power and demands for rights to which children are not entitled. Our proposition with regard to child endowment is sound. It applies to children in excess of 2 in a family. We have a graduated scale which I think is good. I believe that those who are prepared to have this number of children merit the little which the Government does under the heading of child endowment. We reject the view which is fashionable in some quarters that a population catastrophe is just around the corner, that people are simply pollution factories and that Australia as a nation should adopt the theory of zero population growth. Did honourable senators ever hear the like? 
As I asked earlier, have we any moral right to hold this country with less than 13 million people? India with 570 million people and 1 million square miles has a population density which is less than England or Germany. On the other hand, Australia has twice as much land as India but only one-fortieth of its population. To hold Australia and develop its great resources a much greater population will be required than it has at the present time. To talk about zero population growth for this nation is the height of folly. The Australian Democratic Labour Party will have no part in it. Pollution in Australia is not the fault of people but rather the fault of past governments - with the exception of the Queensland Government which I led - whose past policies or lack of them have led to the growth of huge metropolitan complexes like Sydney and Melbourne. These governments have allowed 80 per cent of our people to crowd into the seaboard capitals. The answer is decentralisation. 
Queensland is the most decentralised State particularly in terms of population. The other States should aim to emulate Queensland in this matter. Furthermore those honourable senators who served on the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution will know that Queensland was the only State which had a department specifically to deal with this matter and answerable only to the responsible Minister. Queensland had gone that far. It had appointed qualified people to take charge of this department as distinct from any other department or sub-department. In evidence it was shown that Queensland was more up to date in this matter than other States. Those senators who laugh loudly at this statement indicate a vacant mind. If they have been to Queensland it has been on a free pass. They have been there at the expense of the people and they have come away without knowing very much about Queensland. 
Before I move an amendment to  Senator Brown's  amendment I would say that in this matter of social services each and every one of us, irrespective of the party to which we belong, must at all times be conscious of the necessity to see that justice is done to sections of our people who, because of circumstances in many cases beyond their control, are in a state not far removed from poverty. We also have an obligation to see that our means test has not a crippling effect on prudent people who have saved during their active life for their future. A lot of these people have saved by taking out units of superannuation. They have relieved the Commonwealth Government of a pension responsibility. Other people have taken out the minimum number of units of superannuation and received the pension. That is not encouraging prudence. That is destroying the minds of people and reducing them to a state of mendicancy. Do not let us handicap people by discriminating against them as we are doing today. 
Someone - I think it was an honourable senator from Western Australia - said that a lot of people spend money on sea trips to reduce their assets and thus qualify for a pension. That is a true statement. We all know from our experience as parliamentarians that this happens. People are quite free to do that. Nothing can stop them. I know that many of those people have no more desire to leave the shores of Australia than fly. They would sooner go anywhere in Australia than overseas. They take this trip merely to reduce their assets. The money is spent outside Australia only because of the niggardly attitude of our means test. Let us take a broader view of the matter. 
There are a few observations which I would make on the Social Services Bill. I am not happy with some proposals inasmuch as I think we have to do more. It is the policy of our Party that a tribunal should be appointed to determine the pension. Pending that I think we have to tie the pension to the base wage. Whether the proportion will be 50 per cent or 40 per cent I do not know. It will be the function of the tribunal to decide that. I repeat that I cannot understand for the life of me why the  2  major political parties are so defiantly opposed to the principle of a tribunal for the determination of pensions. I have heard arguments against this principle frequently. The Government has said that it cannot allow the determination of the pension to get out of its own hands. Would that be any different to the 6 per cent determination which was handed down by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission about  12  months ago? The Government did not know what the Commission was going to do. It never knows what the Commission is going to do. It has to adjust its finance to meet what the Commission does. If the Commission gives a 6 per cent increase across the board the Government sends for its Treasury officers and says: 'What is this going to mean for us?'. The Government has no escape from that decision. As an employer it has to meet the situation and face it. 
Is this position any different to a tribunal on pensions saying that because of the increasing cost of living and the increase in wages pensions should be raised by a certain amount? The Government has a responsibility to meet that situation. Let the Government meet that situation. It gave away the payroll tax but it got something in place of that tax. Under pressure from the DLP the Government got rid of the receipt duties and it had to make up to the States the amount of that tax in some other way. I ask honourable senators not to say that the Government cannot appoint a tribunal. Where there is a will there is a way. It is only hanky-panky business to talk in this way. The pensioner will never receive proper justice unless a tribunal is appointed. Under that system he will be free from the humiliation which he suffers every time his income is discussed at election time or in Parliament. I desire to move an amendment to the amendment which has already been moved by  Senator Brown  on behalf of the Opposition. As a further amendment I move: 
Omit paragraphs (4) and (6). 
These paragraphs deal with the national superannuation proposal and the proposal to appoint a joint select committee. They are totally irrelevant to the feelings of the 
Senate as shown by recent action in this chamber. As everyone knows, the amendment moved by  Senator Brown  is identical with the amendment moved by the Opposition in the other place. Probably it was formulated and agreed upon in the Austraiian Labor Party Caucus and for that reason reflects a House of Representatives approach without any regard for the workings of the Senate. An amendment appropriate for the House of Representatives need not necessarily be appropriate for the Senate. That is the case with the amendment which  Senator Brown  has moved and that is why the Democratic Labor Party believes it necessary to move an amendment to the ALP amendment. 
The first part of our amendment, if it is carried, will have the effect of deleting the reference to a national superannuation system. The DLP favours the introduction of a national superannuation system. That is our policy. The ALP has only recently pushed this idea with any enthusiasm. However, if we turn to page 3403 of today's notice paper we find that this very subject has been referred to the Health and Welfare Committee of the Senate. We of the DLP believe that that Committee ought to be given the courtesy of examining this reference. 
Some of them would, of course, but they are pledged to destroy this Senate as an influence and power in the Commonwealth Parliament. If our amendment is carried it will also have the effect of removing paragraph 6 of the motion with seeks to establish a joint select committee on social welfare. The Senate already has established a Health and Welfare Committee. The establishment of this additional committee would involve duplication and we are not in favour of it. It is obvious that the ALP amendment was devised by ALP members of the other place and no doubt they are completely ignorant of what has been happening in the Senate as regards select and standing committees. They probably do not even realise that there is a Senate Health and Welfare Committee. 
In any case, even if the Senate adopted that part of the motion relating to a joint committee it is obvious that such a committee would never be established because, as I say, this identical amendment was moved in the House of Representatives and it was defeated there. But apart from that objection, a joint committee would involve unnecessary duplication. If the DLP amendment is carried the remaining paragraphs of the motion will be logical and sensible and we will support them. But as it stands the ALP motion has absolutely no regard for what has happened in the Senate and in Senate committees in recent months. I say, with all due respect to  Senator Brown  who moved this amendment on behalf of the Labor Party, that we are prepared to give our time in consultation to put these things right and to see that these things are properly presented. But as I have said, there are 2 sections of the amendment that are redundant. They already have been dealt with. 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the British Government's expulsion order against 105 Russian diplomats and officials who are accused of spying, does the Australian Government still agree with the Russian proposals, announced last May, for the Soviet owned Baltic Steamship Co. to open an office and the Russian Embassy to open a trade office in Sydney? If so, will the Minister indicate what restrictions, if any, the Government proposes to impose on the number of Soviet staff to be employed in these offices? 
 1 thank the Senate for granting me leave to make a few short observations in connection with the amendments in particular. In my speech on the Budget I dealt with a number of the provisions in the Social Services Bill, but I dealt principally with the inadequacy of pensions, which is a matter that concerns all humanitarians. It is also a matter about which the Australian Democratic Labor Party has spoken on every occasion it has had an opportunity to do so. 
To say that pensions have in recent years risen more than wages have is an argument that is not completely factual. One may arrive at that decision on figures, but one must have regard to the fact that pensions were dragging a long way behind wages for a long time. Irrespective of what government has been in power, pensioners have had a very raw deal. That is the reason why the Democratic Labor Party has advocated since its inception the establishment of an independent tribunal of competent people who would have regard to the rise in wages and prices and every other criteria associated with the question to consider the matter with a desire and a view to making a reasonable and just determination insofar as pensions are concerned. However, I do not propose to develop that argument at this stage. 
Pensioners have always been the forgotten section of the community. Just as in the days of the Scullin Government and because of the economic crisis pensions were reduced, it would appear that the pensioners comprise the only section or the major section of the community which is today required to carry the inflationary trend. The salaries of public servants, judges, and parliamentarians continue to rise and the national base wage continues to go up, but the pensioner does not have increases in his pension as regularly as other people have rises in their salaries nor does he have an increase in his pension in proportion to the increase in the cost of living. Hence he carries the burden of inflation to a greater extent than any other section of the community. Other people have some redress in that they can go to a court and obtain an adjustment based on the cost of living, but a pensioner does not enjoy that right. He has to wait until the Government determines that his pension should be increased. 
 The honourable senator has made a very pertinent interjection. The Bill has to go through tonight to enable pensioners to receive an increase in their pension by 1st October. I repeat that pensioners do not have the right to go to a tribunal and seek an increase. A court will say to a worker that because his cost of living has gone up by so much in the last quarter he is entitled to an increase. Is it not a fact that the last 6 per cent increase that was given on an across the board basis was based mainly on the cost of living? Public servants automatically received that increase. They did not have to go to a court to obtain it. Because that increase was granted in a national wage case the wages and salaries of public servants were increased by that figure. But pensioners were not entitled to that increase. They have to depend on the Government granting them an increase. 
The livelihood and sustenance of pensioners depends on how generous governments are towards them. I repeat that there has been no evidence over the years, regardless of whether a Labor government or an anti-Labor government has been in power, of a government ever being guilty of over-generosity in this connection. A lot is said about the necessity for governments and parliaments to control pension payments. They support the arbitration system but they cannot budget with any knowledge of what their wages or salaries bill will be or what effect a general wage increase will have on the economy of the country. When an increase is granted by a tribunal they have to put up with it whether they like it or not. They have to meet the expense of increased wages and costs. If it is necessary to tax people to make ends meet they do that, too, and noone can argue about it. 
We had the position last year of the then Prime Minister and his Treasurer bringing down a Budget that provided for a 10 per cent reduction or rebate in taxation and, at the same time, giving pensioners an increase of a miserable 50c a week in their pensions. It has been suggested that that same Prime Minister was out to eliminate the pockets of poverty in the community. Would an extra 50c a week go far towards achieving that end? Since March of this year pensioners have received an increase of $1.75 a week in their pensions, which has been a marked improvement on the 50c a week increase they received last year. But the pensions are still inadequate. 
I said in my speech on the Budget that 1 was pleased with the improvement - I think anyone would have been pleased with the improvement - but that that was not to say that I was satisfied that pensioners were getting as much as they were entitled to having regard to the cost of living. Who is doing anything about arresting the increase in the cost of living? Nobody. Every other week the price of bread, butter and other essential items goes up, but no-one seems to have regard to the fact that pensioners need food and eat the same sort of food as you and T. Perhaps their needs are not as great, but nobody can deny that even though there has been a marked improvement on the position last year the pensioners are still not receiving enough. We will have to find ways and means of giving justice to these people. 
The means test has been referred to here today. I will not deal with it, any more than I will deal with national superannuation, other than to say that governments in the past have been committed in election policy speeches to the introduction of a national insurance scheme. Indeed, Robert Gordon Menzies is reported to have resigned from the Lyons Government because the Lyons Government could not see its way clear to give effect to an election promise. Then when he subsequently became the Prime Minister and occupied that high and exalted position for about 1 8 years he did not do a damn thing about it. There has to be a beginning. It has to be tackled, otherwise our social services and all the financial effects of them will break down under their own weight. 
 I will tell the honourable senator in a minute. If we have a contributory superannuation or national insurance scheme with the worker contributing something, the employer contributing something and the governments contributing something, it will not be long before we build up a fund from which people will receive something for which they have contributed. I do not believe that the people of today recognise pensions as being a charity, as the older people did some years ago. They realise, as  Senator Greenwood  has rightly said, that they pay for these pensions during their active years in the form of taxation. However, they are often given to understand that, even though they have paid for a pension in the form of taxation, they cannot get one because they have been provident and careful in saving their money by either investing it or by paying into a Public Service superannuation fund or a private superannuation scheme. After all, these contributions relieve the Federal Government of the necessity of paying such persons a pension. But the person who has not been so provident or who has taken out the least possible number of units in a superannuation scheme can get a pension. If that is not an iniquitous set-up and an encouragement to improvidence and wastefulness, T do not know what is. 
Honourable senators know as well as I that there are people who, because they have saved an amount of money which is in excess of what is allowed in order to be eligible for a pension, reluctantly and unwillingly go abroad to spend some of their savings so that they can qualify for a pension. No-one could regard such a scheme as being sound, but that is the effect of a means test. I remember when unemployment in Queensland was more rife than it is today. The government of the day introduced legislation which provided for an unemployment benefit scheme. The worker paid 6d a week, the employer paid 6d a week and the government paid 6d a week. The scheme functioned on the principle of the old mutual benefit society. Those who had continuity of employment, such as public servants, railway men and others who were in steady jobs and who were not likely to be beneficiaries under the scheme, paid for casual workers and others who were out of work but who contributed while they were in work. They had a book which was stamped to show how much had been contributed, and according to the amount paid they qualified for a period on sustenance or a benefit. 
When the Federal Government came into the field of social services and that fund was wound up it had a credit of £2m. That money was in a trust fund. It was not included in the general revenue. The condition attaching to the fund was that the money had to be expended in creating work and paying wages. It would not be long before a government which had the courage to introduce a national superannuation scheme would find that the contributions of the 3 parties concerned would enable it to put this social service question on a proper and sound basis. 
 No-one who is physically able to work and will not work is entitled to any consideration whatever, in my book. 
 If they are, there is something wrong with the system. There is something wrong with the fellow who does not want to work. I know that there are some people who are sick, either mentally or physically, and are not equal to work. However, I know that some of them would not work in an iron lung; an iron lung does the work of breathing, I believe. There have been a few people to whom I have given a job and whom I have tried to lift up, but work was foreign to them. Not to work is customary to such people; it is a disease. 
 I do not know. I have a speech to make and I have limited time. 
 I am coming to it now. 
 Too right. I always do. No outside body directs me, either. 
 Yes. That is why I am here. I am here because I refused to accept direction from power drunk union bosses who knew less than I do about the economy of the State or the country. As everyone knows, the amendment moved by  Senator Brown  is identical to the amendment moved by the Opposition in another place. It was probably formulated and agreed to in the Australian Labor Party Caucus. For that reason it reflects a House of Representatives approach without any regard to the workings of the Senate. An amendment appropriate to the House of Representatives need not necessarily be appropriate to the Senate. 
 I will tell you again. There is an old rule about never being self-conscious about repeating a good thing over and over again. 
 Yes. However,  Senator Brown  acknowledges that I have told him, but I will not tell him again. The Australian Democratic Labor Party believes it is necessary to move an amendment to the ALP amendment and to satisfy  Senator Cavanagh  I will tell him why. The first part of our amendment, if it is carried, will have the effect of deleting the reference to the national superannuation scheme.  Senator Cavanagh  impatiently asked two are three times: 'Why? The DLP favours the introduction of a national insurance scheme. That is our policy and it has been our policy from the beginning. Only recently has the ALP followed the idea with any enthusiasm. If  Senator Cavanagh  turns to page 3440 of today's notice paper he will find that this very subject has been referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare, and that is why we seek to eliminate it from the Australian Labor Party's amendment. We in the DLP believe that the Health and Welfare Committee ought to be given the courtesy of examining this reference. 
I will make my speech in my way. If our amendment is carried it will also have the effect of removing paragraph (6) of  Senator Brown's  amendment. This paragraph deals with a joint select committee on social welfare. The Senate has already established the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. The establishment of this proposed new committee would involve duplication, and we are not in favour of it. 
It is obvious that the ALP amendment was devised by honourable members in another place. However, that is the position, and  Senator Murphy  has recognised the reasons for it and has very graciously said: 'We will accept the amendment of the Democratic Labor Party to eliminate paragraphs (4) and (6) from the amendment moved by  Senator Brown  originally.' I will content myself with those remarks for the reason that I understand that this legislation has to be passed this evening - as well as other legislation - to enable the poor pensioners to receive their increase. Why it could not be made retrospective, as salary increases granted to public servants and judges frequently are I do not know. But of course the Government appears to think pensioners are not so urgently in need of an income increase as those high bracket public servants and judges with whom we deal from time to time, and who often deal with themselves as far as salaries are concerned! I only hope that governments in the future will be more generous than they have been to the indigent and pensioners of our community. 
 I desire to commend the Government for the improvements in repatriation pensions that have been provided for in this Bill. On the other hand, I deplore the failure of the Government to maintain something like a relative value in pensions in other classes of repatriation. Particularly am I concerned with the failure of the Government to increase the allowances for children. The Government has failed to do so for a long time  -  I think, as  Senator Poyser  said, since approximately 1954. 
 I cannot understand this failure. I sometimes wonder whether the Government is conscious of the necessity to provide for the children of repatriation pension recipients. Is it a part of the modern thinking that we have exceeded our population target and that we should ignore the value of our children to the community? Is it a part of modern thinking that the Government should neglect to provide for the children of . repatriation pensioners or the war widows? I would hate to think that that was the state of mind of any government. Why in the name of goodness would the Government neglect to increase the allowances for children who are the dependants of an exserviceman receiving a repatriation pension? 
This problem seems to exist in many fields. After advocating action for a long time, the Australian Democratic Labor Party succeeded in getting the Government to give consideration to child endowment. 1 claim for my Party credit for having influenced the Government to alter the flat rate system of child endowment payments and for granting an increased rate of payment in respect of all children in each family after the second child in order to assist big families to get by. Honourable senators have heard me speak on this subject frequently. Today a single man, according to industrial awards, receives as much as a married man who is required to maintain a wife and family. With equal pay for the sexes  -  I am not growling about that at all - an unmarried woman without chick or child to maintain will receive the same income as a male, if she is doing the same work as that male; yet that male may be married and have a family to support. I think that it is a very bad thing for a country like ours to overlook the necessity for making adequate provision for the children of any family. 1 deplore the fact that many categories of repatriation pensions have not been increased to something approximating their relative value with respect to present day wages. Again I ask, as I asked with respect to the Social Services Bill: Are these people to be the only people who bear the burden of inflation? The cost of everything has gone up for them at the same rate as it has risen for you,  Mr President,  and for me. The prices of most items - whether they be bread, butter, eggs or any other essential item - have risen. Yet we expect these people to continue to maintain themselves at a reasonable standard of living on an inadequate allowance. 
What concerns me frequently is the apparent injustice in the administration of the Repatriation Department. I am not sitting in judgment on the administration so much as I am on the tribunals that are set up to deal with specific cases. 1 recall a case that I handled a few years ago of a man who, as long as I have known him, has been most  industrious and hard working. He came to see me at my home. He complained that he had been suffering for some considerable time with a severe backache. He was unable, he said, to do the work that he had been accustomed to doing. He attributed this to an accident that had taken place when he was driving a truck with military personnel aboard. In that accident the truck capsized. He hurt his back and he was out of action for some short period. He attributed his present problem to an injury he sustained during the period when he was in the Army. 
He went to the Repatriation Department. The Department asked, very reasonably I would believe, for him to support his claim with some evidence from those who were at the scene of the accident at the time. At great cost to himself he discovered the addresses of those with whom he was in the Army. Some were in Western Australia, some in Victoria and others elsewhere. This took a great deal of time. Speaking from memory, I believe that he obtained about 10 letters from these men. 
They provided affidavits to the effect that they were in his company at the time of the accident. They explained exactly what happened and the injury that he suffered. He went before a tribunal which rejected his claim because of insufficient evidence to support it. 
The Commission, as it normally does, said: 'If you can produce some additional evidence we will arrange for you to go before another tribunal.' The fellow was exasperated, just as I would have been in those circumstances. For about 12 months he had been trying to gather evidence and he had submitted it to the Commission. He asked: 'Where in the deuce am I now going to find additional evidence? I made inquiries and ascertained the name of the doctor who had treated me at the time, but he was deceased. Where can I go for additional evidence?'  His  application was rejected. 
I know of another case involving a fellow whom I have known almost all my life. He is a big physically well built man who has been suffering from a lung condition. His breathing was poor, and even when sitting at a table he was gasping for breath. He had been to the Repatriation Department but could not get satisfaction, so he came to me believing that I might be able to help him. He had been before a repatriation tribunal, some members of which were medical mcn who were young in years and had had no Army experience. When he told them that he had been examined and X-rayed and found to have  a  lung condition they said: 'That is so much rot. They would not have had that equipment at that place at that time. We cannot accept that as evidence.' When he came back and told me of this I said that the only thing he could do was to find out who had examined him originally. 
He told me that he had been examined by a doctor who is now  Sir Kenneth  Fraser, who at that time had been in charge of the medical corps. I said: 'It would not be difficult to get in touch with him as he is on Wickham Terrace. Go and see him and get a letter to say that they did have the equipment in that sector at that time.' I then asked the name of the doctor who had attended him and he told me his name. I said: 'You would have no difficulty in finding out where he is, if he fs still alive and still in Australia. We will find out for you'. We learnt that the doctor was practising in Melbourne. So this man wrote to the doctor who said that he remembered him clearly and gave him a certificate to that effect. But it was of no avail; his claim was still rejected because of a lack of evidence that his condition was due to war service. 
Those things concern me particularly because I know retired business executives and public servants who are in a high income bracket and with whom I had played golf occasionally, and who are in good condition but who receive a TPI pension. 
 They are better than I am because they have more leisure and more opportunity to practise. What is the explanation for the discrepancy to which I have referred? There must be some explanation for it. These men are apparently in good health and good condition and are able to play rounds of golf. They have no apparent disability, although they could suffer from some condition of which I am not aware. I am not a medical man and so I do not know. They could be seriously ill in some way. The fact remains that compared with those people one sees some poor emanciated burnt out digger whose condition is obviously due in the main to war service. I am not talking of the fellow who burns himself out, as unfortunately some do. Not only ex-servicemen but also others neglect themselves and wear themselves out in other ways. I am speaking of responsible fellows who are sick and crippled but who receive little or no consideration. Compare their situation with that of some people who receive a TPI pension. 
I have heard it said cynically - I do not want to be associated with it because I am not in a position to confirm the correctness of it - that most ex-servicemen who are employed in the Repatriation Department receive a TPI pension on retirement. I would hate to believe that that was true, unless there were genuine and real reasons for their receiving that pension. The fact that they are employed in the Repatriation Department is no particular reason for their having an advantage over anyone else. Is it any wonder that some people believe the contents of the doctor's book 
Be in it Mate' and accept that it is an accurate account of a doctor's experience with repatriation cases? I would hate to think that the account in that book is true. 
I know that in every organisation or system employing humans there will be defects and there will be deficiencies, irrespective of how conscientious one might be in trying to administer the organisation, but it is very puzzling when one hears of a case where a man is obviously deserving of some aid but is not able to receive any consideration and is rejected by the tribunals, whereas other people who are able to get about and to take an active part in life and who are already in receipt of a good superannuation or retiring allowance still receive a TPI pension. Those things puzzle me, and they puzzle others also. Having had responsibility for many years I am always slow to be critical of the administration of a department because it has been my experience that the average public servant is a civil, courteous and solicitous person, particularly in departments such as the Repatriation Department and the Department of Social Services where they are required to take care of the less fortunate people in our community. Although that is my experience and my belief, somewhere in the machinery or the administration there must be some weakness if what I have said and what my observations lead me to believe is correct. 
People have said to me: 'Wouldn't you think the Repatriation Department could help that fellow? He is obviously suffering as a result of war, if not actually from war injuries. He suffers from war experience and has a neurosis or nervous condition.' Some people would frequently say in response to that: 'He would be in that condition anyway. If he had not been to the war, he would have deteriorated to that extent.' I suppose that to some extent that statement could apply to conditions such as heart conditions which are not necessarily due to war causes. A lot of people who have never been to war - people with responsible positions and people who suffer from tension - are toppling over every day from heart disease. I believe that heart disease is among the top killers in Australia. 
Another condition that is hard to detect is a back complaint. I administered the portfolio which decided workers compensation claims. The most difficult claims to disprove were those of people who suffered from back complaints. It was very hard to determine whether they were genuine. 1 think I might have told this story before, but I hope that I will be forgiven for telling it again. A man working on the wharf had a slight injury to his hand. He went on workers compensation and was on it for a year or more. He had an hallucination that his hand was withering. He believed that it was. No-one else could see the difference between his hands. He claimed that there was no feeling in his hand. Doctors would stick needles of all kinds in his hand and there were no reactions. Nevertheless they were doubtful and suspicious of him. At my request, they sent htm to referees who found that there was nothing wrong with his hand. He was on workers compensation. It was decided to tail him, to use the expression. When he left the office one afternoon he walked down the street. In those days Brisbane had trams, lt was in peak hours. He jumped on a tram. He grabbed a stanchion of the tram with the hand that was supposed to be defective and had no feeling in it. He swung himself on to the tram like a 12-year old. That was the end of his compensation claim. 
From experience I know that governments have to contend with these things. Nevertheless 1 feel that many deserving cases are getting a poor deal while a lot of people on TPI pensions and 100 per cent pensions are doing well in professions and in retirement. That is a phase of repatriation that worries me. I may be wrong, but I believe that there has been an apparent injustice done or that there has been a neglect to dispense justice to deserving individuals while less deserving individuals seem to get more than they should. I do not know what the remedy is. I only hope that the Government will try to adjust the pensions already granted and lift those pensions to something like past relative values. Apparently the Government is doing that in piecemeal fashion. I mention now the funeral benefit. Everybody knows how costly a funeral is today. Funeral costs are very high. That benefit could be increased. I do noi think anyone would be greatly disturbed by the amount involved. For those reasons my colleagues and I propose to support the amendment. We condemn the Government because it has failed to restore the relative values of repatriation pensions. 
 by leave  -  I move: 
At the end of motion add -  but the Senate is of the opinion that, as soon as possible after the appointment of the members of the Committee, the following matters should be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations - 
the severance of the Postmaster-General's Department from the control of the Public Service Board; 
the establishment of a public corporation to manage the business of the Post Office; and 
the application of special telephone charges in those areas designated for accelerated development by agreement between the Commonwealth and any State and its authorities.' 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask: Firstly, is the Government aware of the testimony of Yuri Krotkof, given under the name of George Karlin - a high ranking officer of the KGB before his defection in England in 1963 - to the Internal Security SubCommittee of the Committee on the Judiciary of the United States Senate on 6th and 10th November 1969, which was released publicly on 28th December 1970? Secondly, is the Government further aware that Krotkof fully identified Wilfred Burchett, the Australian journalist whose return to Australia in March 1970 was the occasion of much public controversy, as not only a paid agent of the Chinese and Vietnamese Communist parties but also as a Soviet KGB operative, to which position Burchett was appointed in 1958, in the KGB's Special Department which was responsible for all foreign correspondents in Moscow? Thirdly, is it a fact that in the Melbourne 'Age' of 20th February 1970, Burchett said in an interview with  Mr Ron  Saw:  i tried again, tried to get an Australian pass port in Moscow when Keith Waller was there. Keith was very sympathetic and he tried hard for me. but Canberra still said no. 
And further: 
Arthur Calwell and Jim Cairns have both tried to help. Jim asked 9 questions in the House asking if the Government intended to make any charges against me, but he didn't get anywhere. 
Fourthly, what position did  Mr Waller  occupy at the time of Burchett's admission to Australia? Fifthly, if the Government was aware of these matters, will the Minister state what officer or officers of the Department, of Foreign Affairs were responsible for facilitating Burchett's return to Australia on 1st March 1970, and his unhindered departure from Australia in the same month? 
Having regard to the desire of the Government to complete discussion on these Bills today, as we are to deal with General Business this evening, I will endeavour to limit my remarks on them as much as possible. Before dealing particularly with the Post and Telegraph Bill I would like to reply to a charge made against me last night by  Senator Willesee  that I had been dishonest in connection with the attitude of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to postal Bills on previous occasions. I say now quite definitely that I have spoken against every Bill providing for increased postal, telephone and telegraph charges that has come into this chamber since I have been here. The introduction of such Bills has become a regular practice in recent years, almost an annual practice. 
A review of them will show that what I have said about my attitude to them is correct. On 4th May 1967 A Post and Telegraph Rates Bill was introduced and passed in the House of Representatives. On Monday, 8th May I publicly stated through the Australian Press that I and my colleague  Senator McManus  intended to do our best to prevent the passage of the legislation and that we hoped that the Australian Labor Party Opposition in the Senate would support our efforts. 
The Bill was passed in the House of Representatives, came to the Senate and on 12th May 1967 was debated here.  Senator Murphy,  the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, in indicating the position of his Party made it very clear that he and his Party were also opposed to the increase. I want to be as brief as possible about this matter. In voting on the Bill the Australian Labor Party and the Democratic Labor Party combined to defeat the Government by 25 votes to 24. A second Bill was introduced in the House of Representatives on 17th May. On Friday, 19th May, the last day of the sitting before the winter recess, the Senate dealt with the second reading of the Bill and an amendment was carried. The amendment, moved by  Senator Murphy,  provided that the Bill be deferred for 6 months. The Democratic Labor Party and  Senator Turnbull  voted with the Opposition to carry the amendment by 26 votes to 24. 
In the course of my remarks on that Bill I indicated that the Government could achieve its purpose by regulation in the coming recess and thus introduce increased rates and charges. My remarks prompted  Senator Murphy  to take appropriate action to prevent that being done. He moved a motion that in the event of regulations being introduced for that purpose, the Senate should be summoned. Senators of the Democratic Labor Party put their signatures to a requisition for that to be done. By majority vote, the Senate was subsequently called together to deal with the regulations that were introduced. 
We were brought here at a great deal of expense to the taxpayers and once again we discussed the postal charges. At this special meeting of the Senate the Government introduced 2 postal Bills, as is the customary practice, and we discussed them on 19th September. By this time the Opposition's stand had changed. Members of the Opposition had decided not to oppose the measures any further. Divisions were called for by the DLP and  Senator Turnbull  and the voting was 22 to 3. A question can readily be asked: What happened to the Opposition? On that occasion 22 Government supporters voted against  Senator McManus, Senator Turnbull  and myself. 
Members of the Opposition walked out of the chamber after all their play and display regarding the iniquitous and unjust increases in charges inflicted on the public by the Postal Department. They walked out of the chamber and left the DLP and  Senator Turnbull  here to vote against the measures. In recent times we have heard a lot from  Senator Willesee  about the need for an inquiry into separating administration of the postal services from the Public Service Board. I remind him that I endeavoured to have' this whole subject explored. I sought permission to move an urgency motion relating to the establishment of a statutory corporation or authority to control the operations of what is known as the Postmaster-General's Department. I could not receive the support of the Australian Labor Party. Because there were only 2 of us -  Senator McManus  and I - I was not able to obtain permission to have that motion debated. Subsequently I informed the Senate about the proposal. I supplied it with information regarding the commission that was set up in Great Britain to make an examination of the postal services in that country. 1 told honourable senators something they had never known before. 1 informed them of the findings of that commission. 
In the course of that speech I suggested that the revenue of the Post Office should be paid not into the Consolidated Revenue Fund but into a trust fund that would be operated by the Post Office itself. I also advocated autonomous control of the Post Office and that it should not be subject to the directions of the Public Service Board. I am glad to say that the Government at least gave effect to my suggestion that the revenue of the Post Office should not be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund. So, the things about which  Senator Willesee  spoke were initiated by me in debates on earlier Bills in this chamber. It ill becomes him to charge me with dishonesty in this connection when he was a party to bringing the Senate back to debate the increased postal charges and then, when the matter was brought to a head, he and his colleagues were Isd by the nose, as it were, from this chamber and they refused to vote against those measures. It is like Satan reproving sin for him to stand up in this place and reflect upon my integrity in this matter. 
I have told the people in this chamber and out of it that there is something radically wrong with the Postal Department. I can recollect the time when it was the great revenue producing department of Australia. As I have said before, it is now almost an annual event for the charges to be increased. I have read what the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  has said and the explanation he has given for the increased charges. There is no doubt that there is a good measure of truth in it. We have to understand, in relation to all these departments, that the standard of living of the public servant is tied up with his effort and his measure of production, and that the go slow tactics, the strikes, the holding up of the mail and all the other similar things that have been done frequently in recent years are not helping to keep costs down. 
They are a big contributing factor. If the public servant, or, for that matter, anyone in the community believes that he can maintain his standard of living and not contribute to it by his own personal effort and by giving a fair day's work for a fair day's pay, which is good old Labor policy, he is not doing justice to himself, his fellow citizens or the community generally. What was said in the course of the debate last night in criticism of the rates substantially meets with my approval. But, being a responsible member of the Parliament, 1 have to recognise that the Government has to adopt one of two alternatives: It can increase the rates for those who use the Post Office services - the people who send letters and telegrams, use the telephones and so on - or it can add the cost to the income tax paid by everybody irrespective of the quantum of business that he does with the Post Office. 
I deplore the increases in postal rates. 1 believe that it is very unfair to impose heavy telephonic charges on the people in the outback of our country. I have said this before in this chamber. I have related it to the railway deficits over the years. Although the non-paying lines in the country areas were contributing so much to decentralisation, the railways departments were required to carry the cost of those lines while the lands departments or other departments received the benefit from their efforts. The same applies in regard to postal services, lt is particularly unfair that people who are prepared to go out into the backblocks of this country and live there under great disadvantages and adversities should be penalised so much by heavy telephone costs. 
I deplore the increases in postal charges particularly as they apply to organisations engaged in raising funds for approved charities and educational purposes. Surely somebody should be ready and willing to subsidise the Postal Department in some way in order to remove the necessity la impose these additional postal charges on such organisations. Throughout Australia many charities are engaged in raising funds for organisations that are doing good Christian and humane work in the care of the aged, the sick, the spastic and others. They have to resort to art unions and other forms of raising money. They have big postage bills. They send out leaflets and tickets - and almost invariably they enclose an envelope with a stamp on it for the return of the butts - as well as result slips. 
The same is done for educational purposes. I refer to organisations such as Boys Town which are doing an excellent job in trying to rehabilitate the youth of the community. Yet almost every year they are faced with additional postal charges. What is happening is that the PostmasterGeneral, metaphorically speaking, is putting his hand into the collection bag of those laudable organisations and taking away some of the donations or subscriptions to them. They are being handicapped and disadvantaged because of this. Perhaps this is not an area that the Postmaster-General's Department can subsidise. But let the Treasury do something about it. Some survey has to be made of the Postal Department because the position appears to be deteriorating. 
If taking the Department away from the control Of the Public Service Board and making it a corporation - I am not setting myself up as an authority or  a  person in a position to say whether that would be good or bad may provide a remedy let us examine it. This was done in Great Britain. In Australia we have examples of organisations such as TransAustralia Airlines and the telecommunications section of the Postmaster-General's Department. They have autonomous control. They appear to be doing all right. All I ask is that a more serious and more positive examination of the position should take place, lt is not good enough to find year after year that the Post Office is in the red and to continue to increase charges in respect of postal, telephone and telegraphic services. At the end of the next financial year it will be found that the position of the Post Office is no better and this medicine, which is not very palatable, must be again administered. 
A number of other parts of this Bill do not meet with my approval, and in common with most people I object to them. I object not so much on my own behalf - at least for the time being - but on behalf of the general public. As one honourable senator said last night, the telephone has become almost an indispensible unit in domestic life. People would have laughed 25 years ago if it had been suggested that the telephone was an essential. Anyone who had a telephone when I was a lad was among the rich in the community or was a business executive whose firm or company had paid for the installation and other costs. Things have changed. Years ago, the same thing could have been said with respect to refrigeration, or even ice boxes, particularly in a State like Queensland. Honourable senators would be surprised to learn how many people hung on to the old canvas bag to provide a cool drink and to the butter cooler for butter. That was the extent of their refrigeration. The situation today is different. Thank God our facilities have improved a bit and that conveniences such as refrigeration and air conditioning units which make life more comfortable and more agreeable are available. 
I wish to foreshadow an amendment that I propose to move to the Post and Telegraph Bill 1971. As honourable senators know, I can only foreshadow my amendment at this stage because the amendment moved by  Senator Willesee  is already on the stocks. My amendment will call for the reference to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations of the following matters: The relationship between the Postmaster-General's Department and the Public Service Board; the application of special telephone charges in those areas designated for accelerated development; and the establishment of a public corporation to replace the PostmasterGeneral's Department. 
My foreshadowed amendment differs from the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party in that I have broadened the scope of my amendment to include the question of the establishment of a public corporation. This is a matter which has received my attention for some time. Those senators who were here in 1967 will remember that the Australian Labor Party refused to assist me to raise this matter for discussion as a matter of public importance. As a matter of fact, the Australian Labor Party on a number of occasions has called for the establishment of such a public corporation. However, in its amendment this year it has not done so, and I wonder why this is so. Has the ALP gone cold on this proposal? Is it not prepared to examine the proposal for its worth? Is it content to allow the present situation to continue? It has been left to the Australian Democratic Labor Party to attempt to have this proposal examined. Whatever might be the attitude of the ALP, the Australian Democratic Labor Party will not abandon its support for this proposal. 
As I have said already, I am not in a position to know whether or not this proposal, if adopted, will prove beneficial or advantageous. But I believe, because of the experience in Great Britain, that this proposal is worthy of examination and consideration by a qualified committee of this Senate. Honourable senators are aware that the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations has yet to have members appointed to it. However, it is only a matter of time before this will happen because the Democratic Labor Party, for one, has informed the  President  already of its nominees in respect of those standing committees to which members have not yet been appointed. The Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations is, I believe, the appropriate committee to examine these subjects. 
I might point out that my foreshadowed amendment does not constitute a formal reference of those matters to the Committee. A separate resolution of which notice would need to be given would be required in that respect. I did examine the possibility of achieving this reference by way of an amendment at the second reading stage but was advised that this was not possible. Therefore if my amendment is carried - and I see no reason why the ALP should oppose it - I will give the required notice of the formal resolution to refer these matters to that Committee, 
In conclusion, I say that this Bill is a part of the Budget. My colleague,  Senator McManus,  and I in 1967 were prepared to reject a Bill relating to postal charges. We carried our opposition as far as we could until we were deserted. We were prepared to pursue it to the end because we believed that that Bill was not a money Bill in the true sense of the language of our Standing Orders. It was a Bill to increase postal rates and charges. But when a Bill proposing such increases is associated with the Budget, according to my interpretation it is in a different category. That is why we cannot support the amendment moved by  Senator Willesee  which seeks the withdrawal and redrafting of this Bill because we are conscious of the fact that this would have a delaying detrimental and disturbing effect on the entire Budget. That is our stand on this matter. We cannot support  Senator Willesee's  amendment. I have already foreshadowed the amendment that I will move. 
Did the Leader of the Government in the Senate see the news item in yesterday's newspapers which quoted population experts in Europe as saying that 'the inhabitants of West Germany, Sweden, Denmark and Portugal were no longer multiplying fast enough to replace themselves generation by generation'? Can the Minister explain how that statement fits in with the claims of the prophets of doom when they say that world population growth is too high and must be halted? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI must confess that I did not see the article referred to in yesterday's newspapers but 1 am conscious that the question is pitched to a debate that we had in this place last week. 
I thought it was a very valuable question because it points up the very fact that the population movement is not all one way at all. 1 would have some reservations concerning the arguments about population growth in our country. What  Senator Gair  has said in relation to the population growth in certain countries of Europe about which we are currently talking is not of sufficient significance to justify all the fears which have been the subject of professorial comment in this country recently. However, this is a wide subject. I would like to have this question processed in more depth and then give the honourable senator a considered reply. 
 I proudly lead in this national Parliament a political party which has always been fully conscious of the necessity for adequate defence for Australia. In being anything but that, we feel, we would be recreant to our trust. We would betray the interests of the younger generations, and even the generations yet to be born, if this great country - the land of the Southern Cross - was left as a gift to be overrun by the hooves of invaders' horses, as it were. I have listened to the debate up to now, and I am amazed at the indifference of some people to the necessity for defence. I suspect that those people who would have Australia defenceless are subscribing to ideologies of and doing a service to people who could have their eyes on Australia. 
Surely we have learnt a lesson from the neglect of governments and oppositions prior to the Second World War when the Menzies Government failed this country and did not increase the defence vote by £1 over a period of many years. Of course, the value of the £1 deteriorated because of the increase in the cost of living. The Australian Labor Party, which begrudged any expenditure on defence, was then in Opposition.  Senator Carrick  pointed out that  Mr Curtin,  as Leader of the Opposition, 10 months before the war broke out deplored the amount that was being expended on defence. That was the attitude of the Government and the Parliament at the time. They were both guilty of placing Australia in a lamentable and ignominious position when the Japanese struck Pearl Harbour. It was providential and very fortunate for Australia that the Japanese struck Pearl Harbour. If they had come this way and not attacked Pearl Harbour, it would have been a case of 'God help Australia and its people'. At least it had the effect of making up the minds of the leaders of the great United States of America at a time when the leaders of public thought and the major Press were advocating neutrality. Had Pearl Harbour not been attacked, that country probably would not have been involved in the war. 
But what  Wits  Australia's position? I was a member of the Queensland Government at the time. I know what the position was. We had limited forces. We were calling up First World War ex-servicemen to give us the benefit of their experience. Volunteers were being trained in Queensland - the garrison State of Australia and the gateway from the East to this country - with broomsticks. We had no arms; we had nothing. Yet people will continue living in this land of fantasy and thinking that nothing can happen, that we have no potential invader and that no-one could ever come to Australia. The tune was changed when the Japanese started to land a few bombs in the Ross River outside Townsville and when Japanese submarines were found. in Sydney Harbour. The attitude was altogether different. That even had an effect on the war loans. People who had been sitting tightly on their bags of money started to release their money and to contribute to war loans, whereas formerly they were acting in a mean way. None of us knows, particularly in this disturbed world, who is likely to come to 
Australia and who is likely to seek to take this country. It behoves each and every one of us to be not war-minded but defence-minded, and to pay some regard to the necessity of defending our shores not only by increasing the ranks of the Army but also by improving Air Force and Naval defence. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party has made no apologies for putting defence in a very high position of priority on its programme and platform. We will continue to do so because we think that this country is too great and too wonderful to be given away because of our own lethargy and apathy. We have heard a lot about warmongering and about the failure of one government as against another government. I definitely charge both the Liberal Party and the Australian Labor Party with the neglect of Australia's defences prior to World War II. Even though 10 months before the outbreak of the war John Curton may have said that he deplored the amount being spent on defence, at least he redeemed himself to a great measure by the exemplary manner in which he conducted himself and the Labor Party during the succeeding years of war. This man, who had been a great anti-conscriptionist in the First World War, saw the necessity in the then circumstances to convert and convince the various State executives of the Australian Labor Party of the necessity for conscription. 
 Yes, of everything, as it should be in time of war. He withstood the rearguard action which was being fought in Caucus. He withstood criticism because of his statesmanlike attitude at a time of the gravest emergency this country has ever faced. In my opinion John Curtin was the greatest Prime Minister Australia has ever had.  I  am supported in that opinion by men who occupied the Cabinet benches at that time. 
 Senator Carrick  said that he had the greatest respect for John Curtin but he criticised the attitude held by John Curtin 10 months before the war. The honourable senator said that John Curtin showed a lack of vision. But this lack of vision was in keeping with the thinking of the whole Parliament. It never thought that Japan would bother coming to Australia. 1 used to hear stories - as honourable senators heard them - that the Japanese were ill equipped; they could not fly an aeroplane; they had a sight defect, and such nonsense. That was the talk at the time. But it was a different story when the Japanese threw a few bombs into Pear! Harbour. A lot of people sat up and took notice. But what a pathetic position Australia was in at that time. Do we want that position to occur again? No-one in their senses would want that position to obtain. That is why the Australian Democratic Labor Party, which I am privileged to lead, for as long as it is here, is intent on alerting and prodding the Government - irrespective of which party is in government - about the necessity of having adequate defence. That is why we put emphasis on self reliance. For generations we hung on to the apron strings of Britain. We were content to hang on to the apron strings of Britain and sing 'Rule, Britannia, Britannia rule the waves'. During World War II when poor old Britain bad more on her plate than she could handle the Americans came in response to the call of John Curtin, the Prime Minister of Australia. He was criticised for making that call to America. But America responded and it was because of that response that we continue to enjoy the freedom and liberty which we have and for which so many noble men and women made the supreme sacrifice in many theatres of war during World War I and World War II and in Korea and Vietnam. 
The Australian Labor Party can deal with its own conscience on that matter. However, I repeat that no-one wants to see a repetition of that state of affairs. For anyone to say in this chamber that there is no necessity for a standing army or trained forces- 
I have heard it. The honourable senator indicated that very definitely. There was no ambiguity about it. There is no need for a standing army because Professor Howard has said- 
We will check Hansard. I am not disturbed because the honourable senator says I am telling a lie. I have been insulted by experts; amateurs never worry me. But the fact remains that the essence of Professor Howard's statement is that we have no necessity for trainees; we have no necessity for any army at all. The Professor said: 'You have no defence problems at all. Who is ever going to invade you?' What a mind of fantasy that shows. I say that if no-one is going to invade us we need the army in our own defence against the subversive forces which are operating in Australia at the present time. 
Yes. They are growing fast. One day in defence of our country we might be forced to fight within. 
The honourable senator's guess is as good as mine. But they get plenty of encouragement. Now we come to the Bill. The only thing wrong with it, I feel, is that we should be in a position to do more in training young men for the defence of their native land or the land of their adoption. 
Yes, if necessary. 
Yes, if necessary, if the authorities can handle the numbers and if the situation were expeditiously dealt with. It would overcome the complaints which some people have because some men are called up and others are not. If the position is competent of being achieved 1 think it would give greater measure of satisfaction, except to those who are physically unfit. It would not be the first time that we have had total mobilisation. I know that it is a long time since the days of Andrew Fisher. But let us examine and compare the thinking of the Labor Party in those days with its thinking today. First of all it would appear that one of its major objections to this legislation is the provision for compulsory military service. The Australian Labor Party carefully chooses the word 'conscription' to describe  compulsory national service. The history of conscription goes back to the early days of the Labor movement in this country and in older countries. Conscription was adopted as a means of ensuring that the sons of the rich bore as much of the burden as the sons of working men. That is the principle of conscription - the rich do not escape. Rather they will carry as much of the burden as working men's sons. 
What are these awful words 'conscription' and 'compulsion'? The ALP imagines that the use of the word 'conscription'  will  stir people's emotions and will suggest that human freedoms are being trampled upon by a ruthless government. I might be inclined to be influenced by the Labor Party's appeal on this matter if I did not know so much about its desire for conscription. Members of the ALP agree with compulsory voting; they believe in compulsory unionism. If a person docs not subscribe to that compulsion he is denied the right to live. He is unable to get a job and there are no ways and means by which he can support those dependent on him. That is compulsion; that is conscription. What is more important, they believe .in conscription in the matter of the compulsory payment of levies for the ALP, whether or not a person belongs to the Australian Labor Party. 
I was in a union when it was not compulsory to be in a union. 
No. 
We did not have compulsory unionism. 
The court determined the question of preference. The Senate will see how I have led Opposition senators up the garden path. Let me now refer to compulsory levies and those people who complain about conscription. I invite honourable senators to consider the Hursey case in which a man and his son, waterside workers, refused to pay a levy to the Waterside Workers Federation at election time, because half of it would go to the Communist Party. 
Because the case was heard in public. The Hurseys refused to pay the levy because half of it was going to the Communist Party. But what happened to them in this great democracy, in this time of trade unionism, freedom and liberty? They were boycotted and hounded off the wharves of Tasmania. Indeed, there were attempts to run them down by car. Let members of the Australian Labor Party deny that, if they will. 
That is so; yet Opposition senators talk about 'compulsory' as though it were a dirty word. Everything  is  compulsory. I was just as enthusiastic about unionism as  Senator James  McClelland was when he was in the group movement, and I was in a union before I was required to be. 
What nonsense? Jack Kane is here and will bear witness to what 1 have said. 1 remind the honourable senator that if you pitch for it you get it. The honourable senator is not dealing with the rag-tag now. 
That is the thing that irritates me; they pretend to be so innocent about this kind of thing. They pretend that compulsion is an awful thing, but they are compelling everybody else to do their bidding, and God help anyone who does not do so. If one does not do their bidding one cannot even get a job. Is the ALP suggesting that there should not be compulsion to bear some part of the burden of national defence? I repeat that my only objection to the legislation is, and has been, to the ballot system by which a section only of our youth is trained. I think that every physically able young man should be trained to defend his country. And this  should apply to women too, for that matter. I have a good ally in that because after the 1969 election no other than  Mrs Whitlam  advocated the conscription of the young womanhood of Australia for the defence of this country. I congratulated her when I saw her. 
It is not too much to expect from people who live in a land such as ours, with all the advantages, all the privileges, all the freedoms and all the liberties, that they should be prepared to learn something about defence so that they may defend this country if the occasion should arise. We do not want a repetition of what happened at the time of the Second World War when young men of the age of 18 years - not 20 years - were called up and, with very little training, were sent, as nephews of mine were, to Milne Bay or the Kokoda Trail. As  Senator Carrick  said earlier in the debate, they were less equipped to defend themselves and their fellow men than they would have been if they had had adequate training. It would do many young fellows today a lot of good if they were to have a little training and some of the discipline that goes with it. We would not have the scenes that we now have and there would be an end to the disregard for law and order that we see so frequently. 
Yes, I had it. 
 It did a lot for me. It brought me into the highest position in my native State, and after nearly 40 years I am still going with the confidence of the people of Queensland. What better tribute than that would one want? My objection to compulsory training in my day was that a trainee learnt little. There appeared to be alack of tutors and training. Nothing distracts or frustrates young men more than being tied up with an outfit where they are not learning anything. Give young men something in which they can interest themselves and they will go along with it, but to call them to a parade on a Saturday afternoon and march them around 2 or 3 times, leaving them then to sit down and engage in pebble throwing at one another, when they would rather be playing football or cricket, is not good enough. Young men will not mind going into camp or undergoing training if they feel that the time they are giving is properly used with advantage to themselves and the Army to which they belong. 
Let us recall the attitude of Labor years ago, in the days before there was an Australian Labor Party. For the benefit of those who blow into the Labor movement with any little bit of wind that blows, I point out that the Australian Labor Party was not known as an organisation until 1918. Until after the First World War we had Labor movements in each State. In Queensland I represented the Labor Party, as it was known then. It was not the Australian Labor Party; there was no federation.I belonged to the Workers' Political organisation long before I had a vote. We had universal military training under Labor. It came under an official Labor policy as long ago as 1908. In 1911, 3 years before the outbreak of the First World War, when Australia was fully protected by the military and naval might of the British Empire, the Fisher Labor Government - Fisher was a Queensland representative and a good Scot - implemented a scheme of universal and compulsory military training. This 1911 Labor scheme embraced not only men of 20 years, not only young men of 18 years; it embraced all those who were between the ages of 12 and 26 years. Therefore, it applied to school boys as well as to adults. 
I would not, but I can imagine the hue and cry of the present Australian Labor Party if the Australian Government today proposed to extend the operation of our national service training scheme to boys in Form I. That was Labor policy in the days of Fisher, in time of peace. Fisher recognised the necessity of training and discipline, and he knew that even if they were never needed for war it would at least do them no harm, that they would grow up to be bigger and better men for what they learnt and for the training they had received. So when we go back through the history of Labor and Labor governments we see that we are now, at a time when the world was never more disturbed, dealing with this proposal with less enthusiasm than they had back in 1911. The effect of the present Bill will be to reduce Australia's Army from 44,000 to 40,000. It will consist of 28,000 regulars and 12,000 national servicemen. I wonder just how adequate this is. However I am prepared to support the Bill and accept the advice of those controlling our Army and our military forces as to our ability and capacity to train. 
The size of any Australian Army must be related to the size of Australia, which is just under 3 million square miles. It must be related also to the region of South East Asia in which we find ourselves and of which we are an indisputable part. South East Asia is an area of political instability in which relatively small and emerging nations are confronted with enormous problems of development and industrialisation. It is an area dominated by the enormous armed might, conventional and nuclear, of Communist China. As the United States withdraws militarily from Asia and Britain pulls out its forces, this area will lack a balance of power to offset China. We no longer have the assurance that powerful allies will come to our aid in an emergency. Neither SEATO nor ANZUS can any longer be taken to guarantee Australia's safety. There is no parallel between the defence position of Australia and the defence position of the countries of Western Europe. 
In Europe there is the NATO alliance and behind it is the United States nuclear shield. All this provides a balance of power situation. The Soviet Union and its allies are well aware of this situation. Professor Howard, who was quoted so warmly and so enthusiastically last night by  Senator James  McClelland, had the European situation in mind when be attempted to evaluate Australia's defence in his radio talk. I do not suppose he went further than Sydney. He has never been up into the vast open spaces of Queensland which, I say again, is the gateway to Australia from the East, or to the points of vantage that exist along the long coast around to (the west. He would not have any idea of the geographical position of the country; yet apparently we are told that we should lay great weight on every word that he utters and say: 'Well, that is good enough, thanks. We will do nothing about Australia's defence. We will just let our country go to hell; let it be here for the taking, whether by China, Indonesia, Japan or Russia'. Professor Howard is attempting to judge Australia, 1 repeat, according to the European situation where a series of closely-knit alliances is ultimately guaranteed by the nuclear deterrent. 
The European nations should feel more secure than Australia because we have no nuclear umbrella to shield us from a rain of bombs dropped by any would-be invader of this country. If they are more secure one would imagine that their military strengths would reflect that view but do they? The answer is no. The opposite is the case. To illustrate this I will present the Senate with a few figures. The population of The Netherlands is 13 million, which is about 500,000 more than the stated population of Australia. It is roughly equal to our population. It has an army of 76,000 and the proposed army for Australia is 40,000. That is not a very favourable comparison. 
Yes, it would nave conscription. Switzerland is only a small country in size. Its population is 6.3 million and it has an army of 29,500 of which 24,000 are conscripts. But in addition there are a further 530,500 active reservists who can be mobilised within 48 hours. Now I turn to Sweden which, so I am told, is a model socialistic country. Its population is 8 million, about three-quarters that of Australia, and it has an army of 49,000 of which 36,500 are conscripts. But Sweden also has 100,000 reservists who are called up for from 18 to 40 days running each year. Belgium has a population of 9.8 million and an army of 71,500. Italy has a population of 54 million and an army of 295,000. Austria has a population of only 7.4 million but has an army of 44,000. With a smaller population than Australia, Austria will have a larger army than we will have as a result of the reductions proposed in this Bill now before the Senate. 
It should now be clear to all those who are fair that we do not have a gigantic army, not by any means. Countries smaller in population than Australia have larger armies. What is more, the countries I have quoted have greater security than we do. All this crying about national service training will get us nowhere. We need an adequate army, if we have any regard for the country and its future, for the children who live here and for future generations. If we cannot attain an adequate army of volunteers we will have to continue with compulsory national service training, no matter how inconvenient it might be. 
I repeat that every young man in Australia should be trained in the defence of this country. If our military leaders think that 18 months is long enough to give our young men sufficient training, well that is good enough for me. I am not an expert military strategist or educator but I know from long experience just how young men react favourably to the discipline and training they are receiving. I have had as many as 6 people, particularly mothers, come to my home when the previous national service scheme was in operation, worrying about their boys going into camp for a period. Some of them cried: 'Can't you stop my son from going to camp?' I said to them: What is your objection to your son going to camp?' They said: 'We are told that they have to sleep on boards. They have no beds, no stretchers, and the food is awful.' It was evident to me that they were over-indulgent parents. They thought their poor little dears were going to be very badly treated. At least some of them came back to me after they made their first visit to the camp one Sunday. They had a glow in their faces and they said: 'Our boys are happy out there. They say they are getting plenty to eat and they have stretcher beds to lie on.' A few of those women afterwards said to me: 'The best thing that ever happened to my boy was that period in camp. He came out better for it and was more manly. He learned to do a bit for himself instead of waiting on his mother to do everything for him.' 
A bit of training is good for us all. It is not possible to get a 100 per cent result. That is too much to expect. Even in our best schools that result is not achieved. As my poor old mother used to say: 'You will find weeds in the best kept gardens.' That is to be expected. If we love this country we should be prepared to serve it. It pro vides us with many opportunities, but God help us if we neglect it. As the poet,  Sir Walter  Scott, said: 
Breathes there the man with soul so dead, Who never to himself hath said This is my own, my native land!' 
 Earlier today I was refused leave to incorporate a document in Hansard. At the time the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  approached me and sought a copy of the document which I had obtained leave to lay on the table of the Senate and which I tried to have incorporated in Hansard. I provided a copy of the document for  Senator Murphy's  perusal and the perusal of members of his Party. In order to save time, I again seek leave to have this document incorporated in Hansard. The alternative is that I shall read it, which would not be an easy task for me. It is an excerpt from the testimony of George Karlin to the internal security sub-committee of the Committee on the Judiciary of the United States Senate. 
I again seek leave to incorporate this document in Hansard. 
The document is as follows: 
by leave - I table a document which is an excerpt from the proceedings of the Internal Security Sub-Committee of the United States of America Senate Standing Committee on the Judiciary. I shall seek leave to have the document incorporated in Hansard. I shall do that because the document is the information on which I based a question in the Senate on 30th September. That question now appears as a question on notice on page 3618 of today's notice paper. Since asking the question I have received a number of inquiries about the matter. The document is an English language translation of evidence given by a Russian before the United States Senate Committee. It is easier to read it in print than it is to listen to it being read. I seek leave for it to be incorporated in Hansard so that all senators will be able to examine it. 
 I rise to oppose the amendment because I believe that there is not any real necessity for it. In 1968 I was responsible for extending the right of appeal for the conscientious objector, i have the greatest respect for the genuine conscientious objector, whether he objects on religious or any other ground, but it is the impostor - the person who pretends to have a conscientious objection - for whom I have no time and in respect of whom I believe the law should be invoked. My amendment extended the right of appeal up to the High Court of Australia.  Senator James  McClelland referred to the necessity to have a judge to ensure that a person is given a greater measure of justice than he would receive from a magistrate. According to the terms of my amendment of 1968, if any person is dissatisfied with the magistrate's decision he can take the matter further - to a judge and even to the High Court. What on earth more than that would anyone want? 
I remind the Senate that when amending the Act in regard to conscientious objection I, on behalf of my Party, was responsible for removing section 55 - that objectionable pimping provision. The Act had been before the Senate and had been amended half a dozen times yet the Australian Labor Party failed to remove the section which provided that a boy's father, mother, doctor and others had to pimp on him. 
No. I am not because I think that the provisions for which I was responsible are adequate. All that the honourable senator is trying to do is to abolish national service training or to so widen the grounds of conscientious objection as to render impossible the normal operation of the Army, In spite of the Opposition, we believe that the provisions for which we were responsible are adequate. We embarrassed the Opposition into having to support us in 1968 because it lacked the initiative to do what we did. The same remarks apply to the pimping provisions of the legislation. As I have said, the Act had been before us half a dozen times yet no member of the Opposition had objected to asking a parent to pimp on his son. The credit for the removal of that objectional provision rests with the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
I desire to direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. First, is it true that the present Government parties, when in opposition, adopted a bipartisan approach to Australia's post war immigration programme, whose architect was  Mr A.  A. Calwell, MP? Secondly, do recent tumultuous events in the Australian Labor Party, leading to the disappearance of the Opposition's spokesman for immigration, mean, the end of an agreed and intelligible policy on immigration? If so, will the Minister inform the House whether he will approach the Opposition and suggest that it appoint several spokesmen who will bc prepared to explain the varied and differing views on immigration which the ALP is publicly proclaiming? 
I desire to direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is the Minister aware of the statement made by  Sir Frederick  Scherger, a former  chairman  of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and published in the 'Australian' newspaper of 8th October 1971 that Australia should be moving towards arming itself with nuclear weapons and that he believed that the armed forces' planners should be moving in that direction now? Will the Minister give an assurance that this viewpoint of a distinguished expert will receive due and careful consideration by the Government in its planning for Australia's future defence? 
Yes, 1 did read the statement made by  Sir Frederick  Scherger. I would say that any statement made by a man who has been such a distinguished serviceman and a man of great achievement in the service of Australia is a statement that must be looked at, examined and evaluated. The statement he made, of course, impinges on Government policy. I cannot reflect on it in that sense, but I can give the assurance to the Senate and to  Senator Gair  that the statement will be examined critically by the government in any policy decisions that it makes on the matter. 
Is the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Trade and Industry aware that in an article in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 1st October 1971, written by someone who calls himself 'Modest Member of Parliament', there appears an unwarranted attack on the professional integrity of a senior and respected public servant, namely  Sir Frank  Meere, C.B.E., who is the Special Advisory Authority to the Australian Tariff Board? In view of the fact that  Sir Frank  Meere is not permitted publicly to defend himself, will the Minister take immediate steps to refute this cowardly attempt to smear a distinguished public servant who holds an important position in his Department? 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of the testimony of  Mr Yuri  Krotkov, otherwise known as George 
Karlin a high ranking officer of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics' K.G.B. before" his defection in England in 1963, to the Internal Security Sub-Committee of the United States of America Senate Standing Committee on the Judiciary on 6th and 10th November 1969, which was released publicly on 28th December 1970? 
Is the Minister also aware that Krotkov fully identified Wilfred Burchett, an Australian journalist, as not only a paid agent of the Chinese and Vietnamese Communist Parties, but also as a Soviet K.G.B. operative, to which position Burchett was appointed in 1958 in the K.G.B.'s Special Department, which was responsible for all foreign correspondents in Moscow? 
Is it a fact that in the Melbourne Age of 20th February 1970, Burchett said in an interview with  Mr Ron  Saw, 'I tried again, tried to get an Australian passport in Moscow when Keith Waller was there. Keith was very sympathetic and he tried hard for me, but Canberra still said no'; and further 'Arthur Calwell and Jim Cairns have both tried to help. Jim asked nine questions in the House asking if the Government intended to make any charges against me but he didn't get anywhere'. 
What position did  Sir Keith  Waller occupy at the time of Burchett's admission to Australia? 
If the Government was aware of these matters, could the Minister state what officer  or  officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs were responsible for facilitating Burchett's return to Australia on 1st March 1970 and his unhindered departure from Australia in the same month? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Air. I ask: Firstly, is it a fact that  Mr Whitlam,  the Leader of the Opposition in another place, requisitioned a VIP aircraft to fly him from Albury to Brisbane on Saturday, 16th October, in order to open a swimming pool at Cleveland, near Brisbane? Secondly, is it a fact that the VIP aircraft returned south empty on the following day and that  Mr Whitlam  returned to Sydney by commercial aircraft? Thirdly, is it correct that the approximate cost of this flight, excluding flight crew salaries and wages, was at least $ 1,456? Fourthly, does the Minister believe that a visit to Brisbane to open a school swimming pool warrants the use of a VIP aircraft? Fifthly, is  Mr Whitlam  required to provide the Minister with information beforehand as to the purpose for which he requires a VIP aircraft? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories. Is it true that the recent delegation to Canberra of Papuan politicians, headed by  Mr Oala  OalaRarua, the Assistant Ministerial Member for Treasury, requested a system of regional assemblies or parliaments  m  Papua New Guinea? Was the purpose of this request to safeguard ethnic and minority rights against the encroaching demands of central government in Port Moresby? Will the Minister give an assurance that any request by responsible Papuan politicians for a federal government in New Guinea that will not infringe State or regional rights will receive full and sympathetic consideration from the Australian Government? 
It is with sincere regret that I rise to join with the Leader  of  the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and the Leader  of  the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  in their expressions of sympathy to the widow and family of the late Bill Heatley who died very unexpectedly and prematurely last Friday. I had the pleasure of knowing  Mr Heatley  for many years. He was a son of a well known and highly respected Townsville family. Although I did not come in contact with him frequently until he came to the Senate, I knew sufficient of him to know that he was a man of very modest character. He was unostentatious. He was very knowledgeable with regard to the resources of Queensland and he applied himself diligently to his pursuits. In the short time that he was in the Senate he showed by his speeches that he had a very deep knowledge of public affairs and that he was devoting himself assiduously and effectively to the work associated with his parliamentary duties and as a member of a Government party. 
After his retirement from this place, he entered the State parliament when he won a by-election following the death of  Mr Carey.  Whilst I know that he would have been very happy to return to the Senate, he was doing a very good job as a State parliamentarian. Of course, we all are very sorry for his widow and his family. I knew  Mrs Heatley  as a schoolgirl. She is the daughter of a highly respected medico in South Brisbane, the electorate which I represented for 28 years.  Mr Heatley's  death is a great sorrow for her and her family. We hope that the good Lord will comfort her in her sorrow. 
I also join with the Leader of the Government and the Leader of the Opposition in expressing sympathy to  Senator Mulvihill  on the loss of his mother. When people advance to a great age we expect death, but that does not lessen our sorrow when death comes. Our memories go back to our childhood days when we were nurtured, fondled, guided and protected by our mothers. No-one else can give us the consolations and the comforts that a mother can. Irrespective of how old we might get and of how we might grow up, their interest in us never lessens. They feel that they are there to help us with direction, with advice and, as the Leader of the Opposition said, with criticism where they believe that it is deserved and timely. We never repay them for all those things. The death of  a  mother is  a  big loss.  Senator Mulvihill's  mother had reached a ripe age and death was something that one could expect.  Mr Heatley  was only 51 years of age.  His  death was untimely and premature. On behalf of my colleagues and myself, 1 sympathise with the bereaved in both cases. 
ls the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that reports of the tidal wave and cyclone which struck the Bengali coast last weekend state thai 10,000 families are believed to have perished, that an estimated 4 million people are now homeless and that the entire crop of the Orissa rice bowl and 5,000 cattle also were destroyed in this disaster? Is the Minister further aware that preliminary Indian Government estimates indicate that a sum of S23m is urgently needed to give food and shelter to the survivors? Will the Minister indicate what amount the Australian Government proposes to give to assist India to cope with this catastrophe and whether such aid will be both prompt and commensurate with the recent response by the Government to aid the refugees from Pakistan? 
I desire to direct a question to you,  Mr President.  Are you aware that the proof copy of the Senate Hansard for 27th October is not a true and accurate record of the proceedings of the Senate specifically as regards the debate on  Senator Murphy's  urgency motion relating to accident insurance? Are you aware that at page 1503 mention is made of an interruption during  Senator Murphy's  speech but that when one consults the section covering his speech there is no reference to what  Senator Murphy  said at that time? Are you aware that although the Melbourne 'Age' for 28th October reports this episode and quotes  Senator Murphy  as saying: 'If you're not interested in the debate please leave the chamber', there is no record of it in Hansard? Does this mean that the Melbourne Age' should now be regarded as a more accurate record of the debates in this chamber than the official Hansard record? Who was responsible for the deletion from the Hansard report of  Senator Murphy's  words on that date?  Mr President,  will you undertake to have the deleted words reinserted in Hansard? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Firstly, is he aware that an Australian Labour Party member of this Parliament,  Mr Gordon  Bryant, who visited Cambodia in July last year with a parliamentary delegation which included  Senator Bishop,  sent a cable from Phnom Penh to fellow Australian Labor Party parliamentarians requesting them to support a move to supply the Cambodian Government with arms to defend itself against forces from North Vietnam. Secondly, is the Minister further aware that  Mr Bryant  claimed in this telegram that the North Vietnamese were committing aggression in Cambodia as blatant as the Germans in Belgium in 1914 and 1940' and called for a policy of Australian military aid based on the formula 'one man, one gun, plus communications and transport'? Thirdly would not the provision of Australian Army instructors to assist the Cambodians in resisting ruthless and unprovoked Communist aggresion be fully in accord not only with Australian promises already made to assist this small and friendly nation but with  Mr Bryant's  earlier request as well? 
I address my question to you,  Mr President.  Further to my question yesterday and your reply concerning remarks made by  Senator Murphy  which were deleted from Hansard, and in view of your claim that the Melbourne 'Age' report of  Senator Murphy's  remarks was inaccurate, and also in view of your quotation from a minute supplied by the Principal Parliamentary Reporter to the effect that the remarks were inserted and later deleted from the Hansard report, I now ask: Will you please supply to the Senate the Hansard report of the remarks made by  Senator Murphy  and deleted so that we can judge where the Melbourne 'Age' report was inaccurate? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that  a  typhoon recently struck the northern part of South Vietnam, causing the deaths of more than 100 people and leaving hundreds of thousands homeless, and that the South Vietnam Government has made an international appeal for food, clothing and medical aid for typhoon and flood victims in the area. 
What amount of aid does the Australian Government propose to give in response to this appeal, and will the Government give sympathetic consideration to the appeal as it did the case of the appeal for aid for refugees from Pakistan. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Government is aware that the northern part of South Vietnam was recently struck by a  typhoon which caused considerable loss of life and damage to dwellings and crops in a number of northern provinces. 
The Government of the Republic of Vietnam has not made a call for international  assitance  but we offered to supply galvanized roofing sheets to a value of $22,000 to help to provide shelter for people rendered homeless. The authorities in Vietnam in expressing thanks for the Australian gift have described it as 'prompt, spontaneous and highly appreciated'. The consignment of roofing iron was despatched from Brisbane on the "Harima Maru' which sailed on November 4. 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  before the honourable senator gets under way with his address on this urgency matter I draw attention to the state of the House. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - I am advised that a quorum is present.  Senator Byrne  may proceed. 
Every honourable senator will realise  -  I use the term in the matter of urgency - the growing concern in Australia. There has been articulated in the Press by individuals and organisations a growing concern for the extent to which the beneficial ownership of Australian resources is passing into non-Australian hands and the extent to which the beneficial ownership in public companies and corporations is, by one means or another, passing out of Australian control. 
i give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Primary and  Seconday  Industry and Trade the following matter: 
The structure and determination of the prices of automotive fuels and lubricants within Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Did the recent delegation to Canberra of Papuan politicians, headed by  Mr Oala-Rarua,  the Assistant Ministerial Member for Treasury, request a system of regional assemblies of parliaments in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
Was the purpose of this request to safeguard ethnic and minority rights against the encroaching demands of central government in Port Moresby. 
Will the Minister give an assurance that this request by responsible Papuan politicians for a federal government in Papua and New Guinea, with entrenched state or regional rights, will receive full and sympathetic consideration from the Australian Government. 
 Mr President,  I seek leave of the Senate to move a motion expressing the Senate's gratitude and appreciation to the personnel of the Australian forces who served in Vietnam and who are now returning to Australia. 
asked the Minister representingthe Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
How much did the Australian Broadcasting Commission pay  Dr Ehrlich,  or his sponsors, for his appearance on the Australian Broadcasting Commission television programme 'Monday Conference' on 20th August 1971 and 3rd September 1971 and on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio programme 'Guest of Honour' on 5th September 1971. 
Does  Dr Ehrlich  normally charge a lecture fee of between$ 1,200 and $1,500 when he makes public appearances in the United States of America. 
Was the organisation known as 'Golden Products' associated in any direct financial way with the Australian Broadcasting Commission's presentation of  Dr Ehrlich,  or his visit to Australia. 
Is 'Golden Products' the same organisation which paid for a quarter-page advertisement in the Brisbane Telegraph on 3rd September 1971, publicising the repeat telecast on Australian Broadcasting Commission television of the  Dr Ehrlich  interview about population and pollution. 
Have threats been made against two persons associated with the Melbourne television programme' Dateline' which, in a recent edition, exposed the sales techniques of the United States of America pyramid-selling organisation known  as  Golden Products'. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Will the Prime Minister indicate whether the Governement proposes to make an attempt to bring to an end the tragic war between the Asian" powers India and . Pakistan, both of which enjoy friendly relations with Australia? Will the Prime Minister consider taking the initiative with an approach to Australia's partners in the Five Power Agreement, and perhaps Indonesia and the Philippines, to see whether a joint approach by the nations of this region can assist in bringing this tragic war to a speedy conclusion? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI fee! that I should refer  Senator Gair's  question to  Senator Wright,  who represents the Minister for. Foreign Affairs in the Senate, because he may well have a brief on the situation in more detail than 1 have. However, I draw attention to ,the statement made by the Foreign Minister on this matter several days ago. Perhaps  Senator Wright  has some supplemental information. 
The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  went to great pains to try to establish that the amendment to the Bill was moved because of something that happened in the Parliament yesterday in regard to parliamentary salaries. It is true that  Senator Willesee  made oblique reference to the matter and that my colleague  Senator Byrne  also dealt with that point. He very rightly said: 'Let the Government be consistent. If there is to be constraint on the wages of ordinary persons and if members of Parliament are to be asked to exercise restraint for the purpose of creating a good impression outside and of setting an example to all sections of the community, is it not consistent to ask that people receiving $30,000 a year or thereabouts should also be asked to exercise some restraint?' As I understand the position - I can be corrected if I am wrong - these people have enjoyed the benefits of increased salaries since their salaries were determined by the Parliament. Each increase based on the increased cost of living has been passed on to them, just as it has been passed on to the tall poppies in the Public Service. The 6 per cent increase, or whatever the percentage increase granted by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission was, has been passed on to these people. That is something more than was received by the pensioners, the recipients of child endowment and people who are unable to get a pension because they have been provident enough to subscribe to superannuation or other schemes which gave them a pension sufficient to debar them from getting an age pension. Such people do not gel any adjustment in their annuities because of the increased cost of living. 
Let us make an attempt to be fair on this matter. We have repeatedly heard the Government say that to a large degree inflation has been caused by repeated applications to the court for increased wages and by the increased overheads that have been imposed on industry. 1 do not know whether that is true, but if it is and if that is the reason for inflation, let the restriction apply to all sections of the community. Let us not bar the worker from trying to increase his income and at the same time increase the salaries of those who receive in excess of what could be regarded as a comfortable living. 1 think our attitude on this matter is a consisent one. Let me tell  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson that it would not have mattered whether the report was made by  Mr Justice  Kerr or by any other person; I had intended to raise an objection to large increases being granted to these people whose salaries are determined by statute. I had intended to raise the ready increase of incomes to the highly paid officers of the Public Service. In 1.968 the salaries of parliamentarians v/ere increased. Our salaries were related to those on the lowest rung in the Second Division of the Public Service. Immediately our salaries were increased public servants in that Division received an increase of $3,000 a year in their salaries. Yet our salaries were supposed to be related to theirs. If justice had been done our salaries should have followed suit and we should have receieved an additional $3,000 a year then. 
I think there has to be proper control of these things.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson disputed the fact that the salaries of these tall poppies in the Public Service are determined by themselves, in effect - by the Public Service Board. He should look at the salaries paid to members of the Public Service Board. If their salaries are increased there is a proportionate increase down to a certain level. The salary margins in the Public Service are too great. The lower ranked public servant is not getting the increase to which he is entitled, having regard to what his superiors are getting at regular intervals. All that we are saying is that if there is to be any sacrifice let it be fair and let everybody help to carry the burden. In recent months I have said here that it would appear that the only people being asked to make a sacrifice and to bear the burden of inflation are those on fixed incomes, on pensions, on child endowment and the retired person who is getting an annuity from a superannuation scheme to which he subscribed and a great deal of whose own money is coming back to him. 
 There has been no review of taxation exemptions for a long time. The fairness of the case must appeal to anyone with a sense of justice and a sense of fair play.  I  do not think any of us will have any cause to cry. as  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson predicted. I do not think that we will be very sorry for what we have done if the amendment is carried. If the position is as bad as he said, perhaps we could arrange for these people who are being asked to make a measure of sacrifice, consonant wi;h other people, to receive a special social service payment. It is too much for "  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson or anybody else to appeal to us on these grounds. Next he will have me crying for bookmakers, and I do not propose to tlo that because they are capable of looking after themselves. These people have been on high incomes and have received increases to meet increased costs of living when other people could not get any increase under that heading, lt is only a year ago that a government under the leadership of Prime Minister Gorton handed out an increase of 50c a week in pensions, knowing full well the great increases that had taken place in the cost of indispensable items of foodstuff and clothing that these people were required to buy. Was that a demonstration of justice and fair play? Of course it was not. 
If there is going to be a call for sacrifice because of the economic position and the rapid inflationary trend let it be uniform. Let everybody take their share of the burden. I turn now to judges' salaries. They do not receive miserly increases of SI, 000 a year. They receive a mammoth amount. This kind of thing is going on all the time. Every time the salaries of High Court judges are increased every State court judge in Australia has his salary increased and increased handsomely. I assure the Senate - this is the main reason I rose to speak - that  Mr Justice  Kerr's report has no bearing on my decision in relation to this issue at all.  I  had planned to register my protest against what I believe are unjustifiable increases for people whose salaries are determined by statute and the high poppies of the public service. 
My colleagues and I desire to be associated with the motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  I had the privilege of knowing Ben Courtice for many years, although I never had the privilege of serving with him in the Senate. I knew him within the Labor movement. He was a kindly, soft spoken, retiring and rather reticent gentleman who had very deep and sincere convicitions on many issues. He was a good unionist of the old school. He believed in justice for the working class, but he was very sound in his judgment on union matters and never subscribed to any of the foolhardy practices so frequently seen in the ranks of unionism today.  Senator Courtice  was an assiduous, earnest type of man who served the people of Queensland in an excellent manner. 
It was a great tribute to him to have been selected to carry out the onerous task of administering the Department of Trade and Customs, lt has been stated publicly that he was chosen by his leader because his leader believed that he was a man of scrupulous honesty. That is a great tribute to  Senator Courtice,  as it would be to any man in public life.  His  leader believed that he could entrust to  Senator Courtice  the task of administering that Department without anything irregular taking place.  Senator Courtice  was highly respected by all sections of the community in Queensland. Although he had reached an age well in excess of three score years and ten there was a great feeling of regret when his death was announced. My colleagues and I sympathise with his bereaved relatives in their great loss. 
As  Senator Carrick  said several times during his speech, we have no permanent, enemies or permanent allies. No-one can tell me that we can rely on any ally, but at least we should be defending this country against anyone who is likely to invade it. We do not know who our allies are. In the First World War Japan was an ally of Britain and Australia and, indeed, convoyed our troops from our shores to the other side of the world. Italy was an ally in the First World War. Both those countries were opposed to us in the Second World War. Many years ago someone said that we have no permanent allies but that we have permanent issues and interests. The Democratic Labor Party's interest is Australia's interests, the interests of its people and the defence of this country. 
Part F of the report draws attention to Australia's vital interest in the Indian Ocean region. We are reminded, and very timely too, that 40 per cent of Australia's exports and 50 per cent of our imports are transported across this ocean. The security of trade, communications and civil air routes into Australia depend on free access through the Indian Ocean. Free access is also vital in the maintenance and security of the military routes, communications and staging facilities necessary for Australia's defence. The report also speaks of Australia's further interest in the Indian Ocean as the protection of our shores and the continental shelf together with the territories of Cocos (Keeling) Islands and Christmas Island, the maintenance of a continuing defence and economic stabilising effect in Malaysia and Singapore, and the stability of the Indian Ocean generally. There is an enormous concern with the Indian Ocean. The sub-committee pointed out what we in the Democratic Labor Party have been pointing out repeatedly over the years. I quote from page 55 of the report: 
. a number of recent occurrences in the Indian Ocean and areas of our immediate concern which warrant a reappraisal of the traditional Australian altitude. 
What are these occurrences to which the report refers? They arc the major British withdrawal of forces cast of the Suez, extension of the Russian naval and economic influence in the Indian Ocean and its surrounds, the uncertainty of the intentions of the United States in the area, an anticipated large increase in exports of minerals from Western Australia, and the extension in the ocean of the influence of great powers whose policies and ideologies differ from our own. Might I add that these occurrences to which the report refers no: only justify Australia's increased concern about the Indian Ocean but also should spur the nation to hasten the maximum possible degree of self-reliant defence preparedness. It has been a stock in trade with the Australian Labor Party in all of its reactions to any reference to a Russian presence in the Indian Ocean to laugh off any suggestion of the Russian presence at all. 

 Senator O'Byrne went to great pains to tell us that all countries enjoy the right to send their respective navies into the oceans of the world. We are not unmindful of that; but Russian history shows us (hat it has never sent its navy to an ocean in the interests of the countries contiguous to the ocean it visits. The Australian Labor Party suggests that all such talk is fanciful and alarmist and that no nation in its right mind would take it seriously.  Senator Wheeldon  said with great drama: 'The Russians are coming, the Russians are coming!' or 'The Red Chinese are coming, the Red Chinese are coming!' We do not know who is coming but we will be more comfortable if we have some adequate defences for this country. We will not be concerned so much about who comes if we are ready to meet them. But if we follow ALP policy we will do nothing at all and will have to be prepared to hand over this country to any of the members of the Communist bloc who are strong enough and big enough to take us. This will happen unless we do something about it. Unless I am mistaken, it was  Mr Morrison,  M.P., whom the ALP presented as an authority on foreign affairs. I do not know why. When 1 was in Malaysia last year i inquired as to his standing in that country. He was never regarded as a diplomat or a great foreign affairs authority. 
It is not a persona] attack at all. What 1 am attempting to do is to debunk this idea that  Mr Morrison,  M.P., is an authority on foreign affairs and that he is one of Australia's great diplomats. I questioned a cross section of the people regarding his capacity and his performance .in Malaysia and 1 was told that he did a lot to help them' to form surf life saving clubs. That is very good work, but beyond that they credited him with nothing in the field of diplomacy or in the matter of foreign affairs. My aim is to try to dispel the idea that credit is due to him. Why the Australian Labor Party continues to represent him to the public as an authority in this connection I do not know. He was  Deputy Chairman  of this Committee. I understand that some information was leaked to the Press regarding the testimony of one of the witnesses who gave evidence before the Committee. It was to the effect that the Russian presence was minimal and not a matter of concern. 
What are the facts? Only last week France, whose interests in the area are very much less than those of Australia, announced that it intended to place a naval squadron in the ocean to counterbalance the Russian naval strength. The Committee's report, which is now under debate, docs dismiss for the present the prospect that the Soviet naval presence represents a direct threat to Australia's defence security unless in the situation of general war. The concern of the Australian Democratic Labor Party about Russia's presence in the Indian Ocean is not based at this stage on the view either that we are at present likely to be brought directly under military attack, but the Russian presence does suggest other possibilities. 
On page 57 the report notes that there exists a sense of unease and uncertainty created in the area by the spreading Russian influence and action. It states further on page 57 that there is a danger that Australia by her complacency in relying on the United States, Great Britain and Japan for her trade and defence is playing into the Soviet hands without considering the Soviet presence. I fully agree with the view expressed in the report that Russia seeks to woo the non-aligned nations in this region.  Her  presence is an attempt to spread her political, economic and military influence In the region at the expense of the United Slates, Britain and Communist China. The report goes on to note the possibility that, after United States and British withdrawals, countries and areas in the regions may turn more towards Russia and/or Communist China than towards Australia which today they consider to be only good friends but economically and militarily stronger than themselves. 
While it is not possible, nor is it my intention, to deal in depth with all the aspects of the Committee's report - it is some 70 pages long - I wish to refer briefly to the practical steps and recommendations which state the consequences in terms of Australia's defence which arise from the Russian naval presence. On page 63 of the report the Committee expressed this view: 
Australia as an island continent must place a large responsibility on the forward defence role of the navy, and air force. Australia's naval and air strength is stationed on the eastern and .northern sections of the continent, leaving our western flank relatively unprotected. This is a situation which is becoming more apparent with the increased activity taking place in the Indian Ocean and the reducing role of the British forces in that area. 
Even though this merely stresses the obvious, and something which the Democratic Labor Party has been saying for many years. Parliament should be grateful to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs for spelling out so clearly this fact of life for the Australian people. 
The report concludes with a series of 17 recommendations. The Democratic Labor 
Party believes that all of them deserve the closest examination by the Government, but some in particular are of immense importance. In recommendation 1 the report urges that Australia should follow a policy that demonstrates our interest in reducing tensions and conflicts in the region and. where it is in Australia's national interests, to join with other nations in the region to help achieve this aim. That recommendation simply urges the development of a Pacific economic and defence community, which my Party urged, advocated and propagated in 1958. I would particularly urge upon the Government recommendations 1.1, 12 and 13 of the Committee's report. Recommendation 11 states that the naval and air facilities at Cockburn Sound and Learmonth in Western Australia should be established and become operational as soon as possible for the protection of Australia's west. Recommendation 12 states that the facilities at Cockburn Sound should be made available to friendly powers under mutually agreed arrangements. Recommendation 13 states that the practicability of the permanent stationing of units of the Australian Navy at Cockburn Sound should be considered as of the utmost importance. Australia must be able to demonstrate its naval capacity to protect Australian shores and the continental shelf. 
On behalf of the Democratic Labor Party, I again commend the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs for the scope, depth and detail with which it has considered the consequences for Australia's security of the growing Soviet naval presence in the Indian Ocean. 1 believe that the report completely vindicates the policy of my Party and the concern it has about the Indian Ocean. I shall watch with interest the Government's reaction to the report. My Party wants action and not words. It is sick of repeated assurances. How many naval ships of a suitable type does the Government propose to construct for stationing in Cockburn Sound? How soon can they be expected to be in service in the Indian Ocean? Will the Government purchase them abroad if home construction is too slow or costly? Those are the vital matters raised in the report. I trust that the Government will give speedy answers to those questions. 
What we need is a government which is prepared to defend Australia and not just lo talk about the defence of Australia. For goodness sake, do not allow ourselves to drift into the position in which we found ourselves in 1941. Let us be practical and show commonsense. To say that we are not as keen about world peace as those who do not want to do anything in this connection is wrong. The best way to ensure peace for this country is to prepare lo defend it. Those members of the Australian Labor Party who are content to go along believing that this country will never be faced with a potential invader are just burying their heads in the sand. If their ideas and policies are adopted by the government of this country they will find if they live long enough a repetition of the conditions which obtained when John Curtin took over the affairs of this country in 1941. He found that Australia had no defences. He had to rely on the United States of America for assistance. We have been depending on others for too long. We talk about the development and potential of our great young country and yet if we subscribe to the views of the Australian Labor Party on the subject of defence we indicate that all the things that have been achieved over the years matter very little to us and that we are content, prepared and willing to hand them all over to anyone who is prepared to challenge the continuation of a democracy in Australia. 1 only hope that the Government will give effect to the recommendations contained in the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and show the people of Australia that it is conscious of the necessity to do something under this very vital heading. We talk about the need for improving our social services. I am all for that. But social service measures will not be worth the paper on which they are written - not worth a damn - if we are not prepared to defend our country to the limit of our capacity. Furthermore, 1 believe that if we do something for ourselves we will be more likely to receive the support and assistance of other nations in the world. If we do nothing we are likely to be left to languish in the wreckage caused by our own shortcomings, our own lack of vision and our own lack of resolution to preserve for the future generations of Australians democracy that you,  Mr President,  and I have enjoyed. 
1 believe that this debate on the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Indian Ocean region is very timely. 1 agree with  Senator Carrick  that the Committee should be commended for the report which it has presented to us for discussion today. I have listened with great interest to the speeches which have been delivered today on this very important matter. I commend  Senator Carrick  on the excellent presentation of the case for Australia's improved defences in the Indian Ocean region. 1 listened with disappointment to the speech delivered by SenatorWheeldon. I believe it was the poorest that I have heard from that gentleman. We have just heard a most remarkable speech by  Senator O'Byrne  who has endeavoured to represent that everyone who believes in the defence of this country is a warmonger. He said that because we believe that the defences of Ibis country should be improved upon we are inviting war from other countries which are armed to the teeth and which arc equipped with the most modern nuclear weapons. He said that we should stand by and do nothing.' He referred to Britain's change of attitude towards Australia and other members of the Commonwealth of Nations. We recognise that Britain is required to leave  a  great deal of the defence of this country to ourselves and that we cannot continue, as we did for centuries, to hang on to the apron strings- of Britain, America, or any other country for that matter, for our defence, lt is undeniably true that Britain's navy has sailed the oceans in the defence of democratic countries. It was not surprising to members of the Democratic Labor Party that Britain decided to withdraw from east of Suez. Australia's former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, and his successor  Mr Holt  never believed that such a withdrawal was possible. We were warning against this emergency when we advocated, from the inception of our Party, the need to step up our defence. 

 Senator O'Byrne mentioned the great change in attitude towards Indonesia. Does he not know or is he not prepared to concede that the coup which failed in Indonesia is the explanation for the change of altitude? I venture the opinion that, if the Russian fleet had been in waters contiguous to Indonesia at the time of the attempt by Sukarno and the communists to take over that country, that coup could have been successful and that Indonesia's relationship with Australia would not be as it is today. For those who were opposed to the communists the victory was a narrow otic. I commend the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs for its report. As Leader of the Democratic Labor Party in the Senate, 1 am gratified with the report because it confirms what we have been saying for years, lt is very satisfying for us to know that a joint committee of Commonwealth parliamentarians are conceding and are prepared to agree that the policies of our Party in this connection- 
 My main objection to the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  for his motion to take precedence over those notices of motion already on the business sheet is that the Party which I have the privilege of leading is too frequently ignored in the arrangement of business in the Senate. I objected in order to register my protest against the continuous disregard of my Party. It is all right for  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, the Leader of the Government in the Senate, to come to arrangements. That is not sufficient. I think that in consultations with regard to the business that is to take place we of the Australian Democratic Labor Party who hold the balance of power in the Senate should be included. I have received the utmost courtesy from  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. He has informed me, with a few exceptions which inadvertently escaped his notice, of what is to take place. Had  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson been in his place to move this motion, it might not have been so hurtful to me as it was for the Leader of the Opposition who gave notice of this motion to rise and to move that the motions proposed by others should be scrapped for his own benefit and on his own behalf without any reference to me at all. This is the main objection. 
The Leader of the Opposition is not the only one who has rights in this place. Sometimes I feel that he presumes to believe that he can control this Senate. In fact he does not. I do not wish to appear perverse in this matter, but as Leader of my Party I would be recreant to the trust that has been placed in me by my colleagues if I did not register an objection to the conduct of the business of this Senate without any real reference to me. Whilst I am here and have a voice, I will express my views. This is my right. This right was given to me by the people of the State that I represent and by my colleagues in my Party. Small in numbers though we might be, I believe that members of my Party can take their place in debate with any other 5 on either side of the Senate. 
Again I say that I do not wish to be perverse or to obstruct the discharge of business. I have the greatest respect for the Leader of the Government. I am appreciative of the courtesy that he always extends to me. I withdraw any objection to the course of action proposed and if it is his wish to proceed on the lines that have been proposed, I am glad to go along with him. 
 My colleagues and I welcome the Bill which has for its purpose 'to increase the rate of unemployment benefit and sickness benefit'. I believe that it is timely and most appropriate in view of the increased number of unemployed at present in the community. Unemployment is something that we all deplore. No-one with any sympathy in his makeup could be but disturbed and concerned for the man or woman who is unemployed through no fault of his or her own. I have memories of the depression days when a huge army of most worthy citizens was unable to obtain employment and lived on a pittance handed out by State governments. We all hope that the present state of affairs is only temporary and that, in the near future, a condition of full employment will return. 
Whilst  1  have the utmost sympathy, I repeat, for the genuine unemployed - that is, people who are unable to obtain work and who are out of work through no fault of their own - I am conscious of the fact that there are some people in our community registered as unemployed who are not very anxious or desirous of obtaining employment. Most honourable senators know as well as I do - I speak of Queensland but I do not suppose that the situation is any different in any other State of the Commonwealth - thai there are colonics of young people, commonly known as hippies, who are moving from place to place, when it suits them, and who have no intention of working if they can avoid it. I often wonder whether taxpayers' money in the form of unemployment assistance is being handed out to these people. How strictly are the requirements of the Social Services Act being policed? How strictly are people who register for employment being investigated when they last a few days or a week at the most before turning a job in and making some plausible excuse as to why they cannot continue in that work? 
I do hope that the Department is quite vigilant in this connection. These people should be investigated not only now when they might have an excuse for not being able to obtain a job but also during periods, such as we have seen in recent years, when full employment exists and vacancies for which applicants can not be found are advertised in great numbers by various authorities throughout Australia, because these colonies of young people existed during such periods also. It is not an unusual sight when driving along a road to find a number of young people hitchhiking. If one speaks to them, they will confess that they are not in work and that they do not intend working if they can avoid it. So, when we are estimating the number of persons unemployed, I think that we are entitled to take into account in arriving at our figures only those who are genuinely unemployed. 
I do not accept  Senator Brown's  emotional outburst this afternoon with regard to the unemployed. If he was genuine and sincere in his concern for the unemployed, I ask why he - a big figure in the industrial world of Victoria - fosters, promotes and causes industrial stoppages in the industries of that State and the other States of the Commonwealth? If he is genuinely concerned about the worker and his inadequate income, why does  Senator Brown  add to the difficulties of these people, particularly the family man, by causing strikes and throwing these people out of work for weeks and weeks on end?  His  actions do not merely reduce the size of the pay envelope; they cut wage payments off entirely. This is done merely on the pretext of gaining some advantage or some improvement in the working conditions of the members of the trade union concerned. 
Do honourable senators think that the great majority of workers engaged in industry welcome these stoppages? Do they think that people who are committed to a hire purchase company or who have to meet repayments on washing machines, refrigerators and other almost indispensable domestic units in our domestic life welcome these stoppages? My association with working class people is close enough for me to know that they do not and that they deplore these stoppages. Particularly do the wives of these men deplore such stoppages which add to their difficulties and which cause many of them to seek employment in order to try to make ends meet. Normally, they would much prefer to be supervising their home and be free when their children return from kindergarten and school. They would much prefer to exercise a motherly interest in the welfare of their families. 
I have said already that all of us, I believe, are really concerned about the plight of the person who is genuinely unemployed. More particularly are we concerned for the family man who has a wife and 4 or 5 children to support. Those are the people to whom we must give extra consideration. I hope that something better might be done for them. I commend the Government for its timely introduction of this Bill. It will relieve the position considerably in spite of what has been said to the contrary. It will be a great relief. I sincerely hope that the number of unemployed will decrease rapidly because, in a society such as ours, in a country which is relatively lucrative and prosperous, in a country in which there is so much to be done towards its development, it is a dreadful waste to have a 'big army of industrious people unable to get a job. 

 Senator Brown has moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. That proposed amendment is not acceptable to me and my colleagues because, in spite, of what he has said, I do not accept that the vast majority of those currently unemployed are unemployed as a direct result of Government economic policies. There are many and diverse reasons why there are so many unemployed today. The responsibility does not rest entirely and solely on the Government for its economic policies. Let me refer to the motor vehicle industry as an example. I do not know that Government policy would have affected that industry because there is evidence that unemployment in it is due to years of over-production and to the industrial stoppages that have been taking place over recent years wilh greater frequency and regularity. Employers are becoming heartily sick of these interruptions. They have reached the s'age at which they can bear no more and they have said: 'It is evident that these people do not want to work so we will facilitate their achievement of their goal by closing'.  There was the case recently of the meat works at Dinmore, a small place outside Brisbane, where there were repeated stoppages. The management decided that it had had enough and it said to the employees: 'If you do not want to work, we do not want to work either', and the plant was closed. Then there were cries for a moratorium for the employees. They asked everyone to whom they owed money, particularly hire purchase companies, to declare a moratorium. Trade union officials were racing around pleading for the reopening of the meat works. Stoppages such as that have aggravated our unemployment position and until the trade unions, particularly their leaders, act as if they are genuinely concerned about their members and realise-- 
They are all back now because they have pledged themselves to work and to stop this foolhardy business of striking every week. 
No? The union leaders were very quick to race around the place and interest themselves once the factory was closed more than they were when the strikes were going on. 
The honourable senator can make his speech later. I am trying to make my speech in the limited time at my disposal. I cannot accept the proposed amendment for the reasons I have outlined. It goes on: 
. directs the Government to prepare a Bill for presentation to the Parliament within 14 days which provides for unemployment benefits not below the updated poverty level established by the 1966 survey of the University of Melbourne's Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research. 
Is there any reason why this Parliament should accept that institute of the University of Melbourne as an authority? Is there any reason why we should embrace the recommendations that followed the  1966  survey? I would want to know the basis on which the survey was founded. I would want to know a great deal more than we have been told. In any case, I would have greater faith in the Commonwealth Statistician. At least his figures would be more honest and would not be coloured by political prejudice and ignorance. 
I would expect Monash to do a better job. What does the honourable senator call a better job - a job that suits his taste, a job that is not honest? There are plenty of economists in this country. 
That reminds me of a statement that was made by Edward Granville Theodore, a former Treasurer of the Commonwealth and Premier of Queensland, who said that there were plenty of economists; some of them were good but most of them you could liken to the light on the stern of a ship - they could always show you the path over which you had passed. There is a great deal of merit in that. I would like to have research done into the opinions expressed by economists. 
Colin Clark is a world renowned economist. 
No, we would do our own research. 
The honourable senators who are interjecting are the people who are supposed to be really concerned about the unemployed. They are the ones who are partly to blame for the plight of many people today. Instead of blaming the Government entirely, they must accept part of the blame.  Senator Brown  cited  Mr Gorton  M.P. as an authority.  Mr Gorton  would be the worst economist we have ever had in this Parliament. 
Yes, I am talking about a former Prime Minister and I have no compunction about doing so either. He approved a Budget 2 years ago which provided for a 10 per cent rebate in tax and at the same time gave struggling pensioners an increase of SOc in a period of inflation. Has he any reason to complain about Government policy? The only reason he has to complain is that he is not at the head of the Government. 
I did not. I condemned it. 
That is a lot of nonsense. It is just the old story over again: If one throws a stone among dingoes one can be sure that they will yelp and cry to the heavens high. They are always true to life. Perhaps I could tell a short story from my own life. When I was a boy growing up in central Queensland I owned a big billy goat. 
Yes. I owned a billy goat. It was a big strong animal. My father thought that sometimes when I was compelled to discipline this goat I was too rough on him. My father said to me: 'Boy, when that goat dies he will come back and haunt you for sure'. That is the truest thing my father ever told me. Whenever I stand up to speak that goat, accompanied by other goats, comes back and haunts me. That is the story, and it is true. 
The honourable senator is away so much that the number of times might be even greater than that and he has lost count. I do not believe that there is any great necessity to delay the passage of the Bill. As I said, it is timely and will be welcomed. But I foreshadow an amendment to the motion for its second reading. Upon the disposal of  Senator Brown's  amendment, we propose to move the following amendment: 
At the end of motion add: ', but the Senate is of the opinion that the child's allowance payable in respect of dependent children under sixteen years of unemployed persons should, where there are three or more children, be substantially increased; that the payment for a dependent spouse should also be increased; and that a special allowance for student children sixteen years and under twenty-one years should be introduced so as to reduce the inevitable pressure on such children to forsake or interrupt their studies by seeking employment in order to assist the family'. 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  President,  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree to which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Was the Minister for Foreign Affairs correctly reported on his recent return from Bangkok as saying that Russia was capable of sending nuclear submarines (o patrol the Indian Ocean in a very short time? If so, does that statement indicate a growing concern by the Government to strengthen Australian naval and air defences in the Indian Ocean, a policy which has been advocated strongly by the Democratic Labor Party in recent years? 
I rise to indicate that the Democratic Labor Party concurs with the proposal. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade the following matter: 
The proposed takeover of Ansett Transport Industries Limited by Thomas Nationwide Transport Limited and in particular 
the ascertainment of the degree of nonAustralian ownership, whether direct or indirect, of the issued share capital of Thomas Nationwide Transport and the financial participation of non-Australian financial interests in the attempted takeover operation; 
whether the exercise, if successful, might be prejudicial to the Australian aviation industry and in the event what, if anything, might be done to minimise the prejudicial effects; 
whether the exercise, if successful, would result in a degree of control of Australian domestic airline operations passing to nonAustralian interests; 
to advise the Minister, in the public interest, how he should exercise his discretion to grant or refuse approval to the transaction involving as it does shares in Ansett Transport Industries Limited, a company holding licences under the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-1971, which discretion is vested in the Minister by section 92 of the same Act; 
and matters incidental thereto. 
That as far as possible the Committee give it priority over all other matters already referred to and before the Committee. 
That the Committee have power to meet while the Senate is actually sitting. 
That the Committee present a report to the Senate within 28 days. 
I move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade the following matter - The proposed takeover of Ansett Transport Industries Limited by Thomas Nationwide Transport Limited and, in particular - 
the ascertainment of the degree of nonAustralian ownership, whether direct or indirect, of the issued share capital of Thomas Nationwide Transport and the financial participation of non-Australian financial interests in the attempted takeover operation; 
whether the exercise, if successful, might be prejudicial to the Australian aviation industry and in the event what, if anything, might be done to minimise the prejudicial effects; 
whether the exercise, if successful, would result in a degree of control nf Australian domestic airline operations passing to nonAustralian interests;  (ti)  10  advise the Minister, in the public interest how he should exercise his discretion to grant or refuse approval to the transaction involving as it does shares in Ansett Transport Industries Limited, a company holding licences  under  the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-1971, which discretion is vested in the Minister by section 92 of the same Act; and 
mutters incidental thereto. 
That as far as possible, the Committee shall give this ref  rence  priority over all other matters already referred to and before the Committee. 
Thai the Committee have power to meet while the Senate is sitting. 
That the Committee present a report to the Senate within twenty-eight days.  lt is noi my intention to make a lengthy address in support of this proposition. I shall content myself with giving the reasons why my colleagues and I in the Australian Democratic Labor Party have been motivated to submit this proposition to the Senate, hoping for its approval and approbation. I want to make it clear that we are motivated and influenced in doing this by the paramount consideration - the public interest. I am conscious of the fact that an unsuccessful attempt was made in the House of Representatives to obtain approval for the appointment of a judicial inquiry into this projected takeover of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd. To follow that process here would not have advantaged us to any extent so, as fur as I could see, the only alternative left to us was to refer this matter to an appropriate Senate committee for investigation and inquiry, that committee having the usual powers which are enjoyed by similar parliamentary committees in the matter of obtaining evidence. I repeat that the public interest is paramount in our consideration of this matter. It is not a question of having a brief for one company as against the other but 1 direct attention to some evidence in my possession which would justify a very close investigation into the foreign content of the finances of the takeover company. 
In my view, there are at least 6 major reasons why this matter should be referred immediately to the Senate Committee. Firstly, the suggestion has been made in the Press and in other places that a successful takeover of Ansett by TNT would result in increased monopolisation and lack of competition in the freight transport industry. As we all know, sometimes it can be to the advantage of the public when wasteful duplication is eliminated by 2 industrial giants merging their services. On the other band, increased monopolisation can be to the disadvantage of the public - in most cases it is to their disadvantage - and that is something that most people in our community consider undesirable. It is obvious at the moment that both Ansett and TNT are active in the freight transport business. As I have said, my concern is for the public interest. The people are asking these questions. Will the rationalisation in the freight transport industry be of advantage or disadvantage to the public? Will there be what the economists call economies of scale, or will there be monopolisation? I believe that the Senate Standing Committee could throw some light on these aspects. 
My second reason for seeking the reference of this matter to the Committee also involves a desire to protect the public interest and to throw light on the dark shadows in this case. I refer to the many suggestions which have been made to the effect that the takeover might be relevant to the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act concerning foreign ownership of Australian television stations. A quick perusal of Ansett's assets will reveal that Ansett owns ATVO in Melbourne and TVQ0 in Brisbane as well as having interests in 2 other television companies. I realise that TNT has acknowledged that it has not more than 12 per cent direct foreign ownership. However, there are such things as nominee companies. I am concerned to know how much indirect foreign ownership in TNT is exercised through such companies. Again I feel that the Committee could get to the bottom of this matter. I am in possession of a copy of a balance sheet of TNT which is written in the Japanese language. I cannot speak or read the Japanese language but 1 think the average person would be inclined to come to the conclusion that TNT has a very big Japanese content. In the event of my motion being carried I will make that balance sheet available to the committee of investigation. Furthermore I have a telegram informing me that TNT has borrowed heavily on short term in Europe to acquire control of Ansett. It goes on to say that it appears that the company will  be  fragmented to pay these debts, and that this will have a serious effect on staff, government guarantees, and so on. 
 I cannot tell you that. 
Well, it could be, but it is evidence that there is a disquiet about this matter. I am asking for an investigaion. I am not saying that the allegations are true; I am not in a position to say that they are not. This is a matter for the Committee to investigate. I believe that it could get to the bottom of this subject. My third reason for seeking an examination by the Standing Committee for this takeover is that the whole operation is very much tied up with the 2-airline policy. The 2-airline policy involves a very delicate balance and the Government has attempted to preserve this balance through different regulations and controls. It even involves, as one newspaper put it rather jocularly, the type of biscuits served on each airline. Whether the preservation of this 2-airline policy is in the best interests of the public is something which is also worthy of consideration at the appropriate time. What my colleagues and I want to know, and what a lot of other people want to know, is whether this takeover will disturb in any way the delicate balance of the 2-airline policy. 
 My fourth reason involves a concern for the hundreds, if not thousands, of shareholders in Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. There are very many shareholders in Ansett who hold very small parcels of shares. They include retired people, small scale investors and even employees of the company. Do not let us gain the wrong impression that Ansett is controlled by large institutions. Many small shareholders have  an  interest in Ansett. I have seen the claim in one newspaper report that TNT needs to obtain only 30 per cent of the Ansett stock to secure a change in the board of Ansett and consequently a complete change in the company's policy. TNT already has 23 per cent ownership in Ansett and, therefore, needs only an an extra 7 per cent if this argument is correct. But what of the interests of those hundreds  of  small shareholders  to  whom I have made reference? Will their interests be brushed aside? Is there any truth in the claim about the effect of a 30 per cent ownership? These are all matters which could be fruitfully discussed and examined by the Committee. I am not claiming that anything is being carried out below board, as it were. Can we learn lessons for future takeover bids from this exercise? Is government intervention warranted in such cases? How do we protect the small shareholder? 
My fifth reason is related to the fact that the Federal Government should not be simply a silent onlooker in this exercise. That may be the role it has adopted but is it the correct one? After all, the Federal Government has a massive financial backing to the tune of $35. 8m in Ansett's borrowing programme to buy aircraft. This is no small amount in anyone's language. What effect could the takeover have on this borrowing programme? When massive amounts of public moneys are involved, as they are in this case, I suggest that the Federal Government should have a keen interest, if only to ensure that the integrity of the programme and the security of the backing are preserved. 
My sixth reason also is motivated by public interest. If honourable senators examine the takeover bid very carefully and have regard to the questions I have raised they will soon realise that a Senate committee investigation is the only way that the takeover can be subjected to public scrutiny. If only for the reason of clearing the air, such a public scrutiny is warranted and urgent. Obviously the Government has no intention of appointing a commission of inquiry. As I said at the outset, an unsuccessful attempt to get one was made earlier in the week in the other place. The only avenue remaining is a Senate select committee. An appropriate committee, the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade, exists already and each Party is represented on it. It has the necessary staff to do the research. The staff has gained experience in other investigations. That Committee already has proved its competence in investigations it has undertaken. 
Those are the 6 main reasons why I am seeking the support of the Senate for my reference. I believe I have indicated sufficient matters of concern to warrant the investigation. At the very least an investigation by the Committee will throw light on the dark shadows to which I have referred. Neither company should have anything to fear from such an inquiry. I believe that most members of the public particularly the small shareholders involved, would welcome it. 
Let me emphasise that I am not attempting to prejudge TNT nor to cast any aspersions on that company. I would not go as far as  Mr Crean,  M.P., the Opposition finance spokesman in the other place, who described the proposed takeover as a hijack. I make no prejudgments about the subject but I take note of comments such as the following one which appeared in the 'Australian Financial Review* of 10th April: 
. the picture tube is rather fuzzy and the story line which is emerging is not necessarily in the public interest. . . . 
The editorial to which I refer stated further: 
Questions of Federal transport policy, national policies towards monopolies and the restraint of trade, communications policy and shareholder protection all seem to be directly involved. . . . 
It stated further: 
In all these areas there are patchworks of policies, some of them hallowed by long history, but none of them clearly, unequivocally directed towards safeguarding the interests of the Australian public as a whole. 
Perhaps an inquiry of the type I proposed can sort out this patchwork. There is a further but secondary reason for my concern which I have not yet mentioned and that is the relationship between the transport industry and defence. The transport industry is one of the most important industries in the community life of any nation, lt is something over which all governments with any sense of responsibility at all times must exercise a very close supervisory interest. Ansett Transport Industries has 72 aircraft and 340 vehicles in the airline division and 213 buses. Its aircraft are the most important component in that collection. Their importance at a time of national emergency would be difficult to estimate or calculate. That is a further reason why the takeover bid certainly is no ordinary takeover. 
I believe that I have outlined sufficient reasons to justify the immediate reference of this subject to the Committee. I commend the motion to all honourable senators. I sincerely trust that if the motion is adopted the inquiry will be conducted with expedition and that the Committee's deliberations will result in protection of the public interest and greater public insight into a matter which should be of concern to all Australians. 
Having mentioned the name of  Mr Crean  and his use of the term 'hijack' before resuming my seat I want to say that in the main I endorse his statements on this matter. He said: 
The Government, with the national interest at heart, should emphatically affirm that TNT and Anset have enough to look after without wanting to gobble up the other. 
He said that the foundations of road and air transport in Australia were publicly provided. He said also: 
Air and rail transport are charged with considerable public interest and are not, except in the arrogance of so-called self-made men, just part of the money game. 
I am entirely in accord with that statement. 
Be quiet for once.  Mr Crean  went on to say: 
The 2-airline policy did not imply it was unchangeable, either in the direction of one airline or several airlines. What might have been regarded as some sort of moral obligation to protect the pioneer Australian National Airlines (now Ansett) did not necessarily extend to any hijack takeover bid. 
Lastly, but very importantly,  Mr Crean  expressed the opinion that the blatant struggle between the 2 companies could not happen if there were adequate provisions in the restrictive trade practices legislation to control monopolies and to scrutinise takeover bids. Not having had the opportunity of examining or scrutinising the legislation referred to, I suggest that  Mr Crean's  statement merits investigation and consideration and, if possible, amendment of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act. If provisions are not included already in the Act to prevent these hijacking takeovers - to use  Mr Crean's  term  -  I think the Government should include them by taking the necessary action as early as possible. 
 I direct a question to the Acting Postmaster-General. What was the cost of producing the recent television programme shown by the Australian Broadcasting Commission and entitled 'The Great Debate on Education'? Is it true that technical facilities alone, including PostmasterGeneral's Department cables for sound and vision, cost $30,000? Did the showing of this programme tie up the whole of the ABC's national network? What was the estimated size of the programme's viewing audience? Will the Minister agree that the programme's contribution to the solution of Australia's real education problems was a minimal one which did not justify the enormous amount of public expenditure and inconvenience? 
I indicate that I concur with the suggestion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Firstly, is it correct that on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's radio programme 'PM' on Tuesday, 18th April, an American by the name of T. D. Allman was interviewed and asked for his comments on the Vietnam war? Secondly, was this man simply described as a visiting American journalist? Thirdly, is this the same T. D. Allman who was arrested by the Government of Laos on 24th February 1970 for unauthorised entry into the base of Long Cheng, which prompted the American Ambassador to state: 'The American Mission has lost any interest in helping out the Press whatsoever because of what happened this afternoon'? Fourthly, is he the same  Mr Allman  who has been twice expelled from Cambodia? Fifthly, is  Mr Allman's  visit to Australia being sponsored by the so-called Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament? Sixthly, does the ABC propose to give  Mr Allamn  the royal treatment it normally reserves for all visiting leftists? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise: Is there any truth in the claim that certain oil companies in south-east Queensland are forcing their lessees who conduct service stations to bear portion of the proposed petrol price cut, with the consequence of reducing their profit margin on petrol by approximately 25 per cent? If this is true, is there any action that the Federal Government can take to protect the service station lessees from the oil combines? 
I ask the Acting PostmasterGeneral a question. Last Thursday 1 asked him whether the Australian Broadcasting Commision proposed to give visiting United States journalist T. D. Allman the royal treatment that normally it reserves for ali visiting leftists. I also asked about various incidents concerning  Mr  Allman's  past activities in other countries. In replying to my question the Minister promised to obtain information from the ABC. I am now informed that  Mr Altman  is scheduled to speak on the ABC radio programme Fact and Opinion' tonight and again next Wednesday night. 
Empty vessels make the most noise. Will the Minister take urgent action on my previous question and the information about  Mr Allman's  background to ensure that the position is investigated before  Mr Allman  leaves the country and not 6 months later? 
As the individual responsible for moving the motion which referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade the question of the projected takeover of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd, I say that no-one was more surprised than I by the announcement that TNT had decided not to proceed with the proposed takeover. I think that  we  should be thankful to  Senator Prowse,  the  Chairman  of the Committee which  was  directed to investigate this matter, and its members for the interim report which they have submitted to the Senate this evening. In the circumstances, none of us could have expected more than what they have done.  I  was equally surprised by the intrusion of the Victorian Premier into this matter when it was being investigated by a committee of the Senate. I am inclined to think that we should accept the report  Senator Prowse  has presented this evening and that we should defer any further discussion until the Committee presents  a  report in more detail within the 28 days specified in the terms of reference in my motion. I do not think that the Committee's task is completed- 
 That is only  a  difference of opinion. I think that we all agree that the task is not finished; the Committee's work is not finished. 
 That being so, we should allow the Committee to function and to find out as much as it can in regard to all aspects of this proposed takeover and perhaps the reasons why Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd has decided not to go ahead with the proposed takeover. Is it because of the intervention of the Victorian Government? 
An  honourable senator interjects and says that that would not stop it. I do not propose to express any legal opinion on this matter. Some people presume to know a lot about these things;  I  do not. I do not know whether the Victorian Government has the power or whether it does not. But the fact remains that the Senate appointed a standing committee to investigate all aspects of this proposed takeover. In all sincerity, I submitted the motion only in the public interest. I reiterated that in .the course of my supporting speech which was brief but to the point. I indicated very clearly that I took no sides  in  the matter and that I was concerned with the public interest. That  is  why,  I  believe, the Senate agreed to the motion that I submitted and agreed to refer the matter to the Committee for investigation. 
Up till now the Committee has done a measure of work, as the interim report states. With the dramatic announcement that TNT does not intend to proceed with the takeover, I think that the Committee still has some work to do to find out as much information and detail as it can. I am prepared to support the submission made by  Senator Prowse,  which is as follows: 
The Committee will report to the Senate in more detail within the 28 days specified in its reference, but takes this early opportunity to ask the concurrence of the Senate to agree to the Committee's suggestion not to continue further with its investigations under its existing terms of reference. 
 No. I think the Committee should continue with its terms of reference. I think it has work still to do. That is the only phase of the report with which I disagree. I do not want it to terminate its investigations now merely because of the dramatic announcement by TNT. I think it should continue and find out as much as it can within the 28 days specified in the resolution. I can understand how frustrated the members of the Committee may feel with this interruption when they have been given a job to do. But the fact remains that in regard to this Committee we can have little or no concern with the intervention of the Victorian Government. Let the Committee examine the matter and present a report to the best of its ability, with its findings on what the position is. I think the members of the Committee are to be commended on what , they have done up till now and I think they should continue and find out as much as they can. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Withers)  - As I understand it, the question before the Senate is the motion moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson for consideration of this report to be made an order of the day for a later hour this day. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - If the Leader of the Opposition could indicate what his motion will be,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson might ask for leave to withdraw his motion. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Is leave granted for  Senator Murphy  to foreshadow his motion? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I agree; I concur. I have often wondered why we perpetuate the system of permitting senators to read - and read badly - second reading speeches that have already been delivered in another place and have been circulated here in printed form, thus wasting the time of the Senate. There has been no stronger advocate than I for curtailing the business of the Senate and cutting out the irrelevancies and tedious repetitions that one hears here. These have a delaying effect which impedes the proper dispatch of the real business of the Senate, for the sake of a lot of words. 1 think we can improve our procedures with a common understanding. There should be not only an understanding between leaders of parties but also a stricter control from the Chair in regard to irrelevancies and tedious repetitions. 
In emphasising these points, I might say that I adopted this attitude in the past when I was Chairman of Committees in a State Parliament, which had more members than this chamber. But there is never any justification for the delay that takes place here and, to a great extent, in another place. If this is eliminated, we shall eliminate a lot of the unduly late sittings of Parliament, thus avoiding the ridicule we mount on our heads when we sit until the early hours of the morning dealing with unnecessary statements instead of dealing with the things that matter; we should not be dealing with the stagemanaged propaganda missions that take place from time to time because they are no good for Parliaments and bring no advantages or benefits to the nation. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Housing read an advertisement in today's edition of the Canberra Times', inserted by an investment club in Sydney, which offers investors a 20 per cent per annum capital gain on an investment in fully serviced building blocks in Brisbane? Will the Minister undertake to confer with the Minister for Housing with a view to investigating these so-called investment clubs so as to determine whether their activities are forcing young couples in Brisbane to pay for building blocks higher prices than they would normally pay? 
With their help you destroyed the Labor Party. 
 Get back to the bookmakers. You know more about that. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What was the cost of producing the Australian Broadcasting Commission's recent television programme 'Education - The Great Debate'. 
Is it true that technical facilities alone, including Postmaster-General's cables for sound and vision, cost $30,000. 
Did the showing of this programme tie up the whole of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's national network. 
What was the estimated size of the programme's viewing audience. 
Would the Minister agree that the programme's contribution to the solution of Australia's real educational problems was a minimal one, which did not justify this enormous amount of public expenditure and inconvenience. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The direct production cost was $12,806. 
No. 
Yes. 
Approximately 2 million people watched the programme. 
I understand the aim of the programme was to provide a forum for a nation-wide discussion on secondary education in Australia. It was not designed to provide solutions to whatever problems may exist in the field of education. The Australian Broadcasting Commission was very pleased with the result. 
 I merely want to indicate that the proposals advanced by the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate are quite acceptable to the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The members of the Democratic Labor Party certainly desire to be associated with this sad motion of condolence to  Her  Majesty the Queen, the parents of the late Prince and other members of the Royal Family on the untimely and tragic death of Prince William. The Queen, as our monarch, must be a very worried and troubled lady in the usual discharge of her duties, particularly because of the great troubles throughout the world and especially in the British speaking countries. This additional sorrow can only add to the great burden that she is carrying already. We sympathise very keenly and deeply with her in this tragic death of her cousin. 
It is always sad to read of the death of a young person, whether a prince or a commoner. Too many young men and women are dying today as a result of the road toll or in unexpected aeroplane crashes for us to be complacent or undisturbed about these events, lt strikes fear into one to read of the death of these young people, some of whom are of very tender years and others of whom are in their young manhood or womanhood. It must cause great sorrow to their loved ones, their parents, brothers and sisters when these things happen. We read frequently of  almost entire families being wiped out by accidents on the road or in the air, or some other misadventure. 
Prince William showed promise of being a very important and valuable member of the Royal family. He showed inclination and promise in the discharge of duties that are required to be performed by members of the Royal family. We sympathise very deeply with the Queen and members of her family circle. I and my colleagues wish to be associated with the resolution of condolence. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - I invite honourable senators to signify their approval of the resolution by standing in silence. (Honourable senators having stood in their places) 
I declare the motion agreed to. 
 I rise to support the Budget. Really, it is a unique occasion for me to rise to support a Budget without having a great deal of criticism to submit in connection with it. This is the best Budget that the 
Government has submitted in the period that I have been a member of the Senate, and it is probably the best Budget that has been submitted to this Parliament for many years. 
That is true; they were, and not only from governments of one shade of politics. Commonwealth budgets have been poor for a long time. I could not help saying to a colleague of mine at the time when the Budget was read, and subsequently when  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson detailed a lengthy document in connection with the provisions that will be made for subsidising old people's homes and convalescent homes for the aged and the sick: 'Have we not come a long way in the field of social services in the last 25 years?' One could not but be impressed by the enormous fields of social services into which the Commonwealth Government has entered and at the extent of its assistance in those fields. 
It is easy to be cynical and to fail to recognise just what has been done. A number of the provisions in the field of social services today were unknown in past years. Those who were in need of that aid and those services were not catered for unless they were able to obtain this assistance from some charitable organisation or a denominational church body which would go out of its way to give these people the assistance that they sought. 
I have been very close to the people for 40 years or more. I know the difficulties that people suffer through sickness and want, their need for hospitalisation and ophthalmic treatment, schools for the blind and the deaf, and creches and kindergartens. I challenge any honourable senator to mention a field of social need that has not been catered for in some way or other in this Budget. Some of those fields may not have been catered for to the extent that you and I might wish them to be; nevertheless, it is gratifying to see that the Government is facing up to these demands and requirements. 
There is a number of small matters about which I will have something to say in the course of my speech which will be limited. I have a very heavy cold, and whether my voice tonight will stand the strain of the long vigorous speech that I am accustomed to making in the Budget debate remains to be seen. But there is not the same necessity to be as critical of this Budget as I have been in the past. A great deal has been said to the effect that the Budget is good merely because this is an election year. Let us be realistic. We would not have much appreciation or much regard for a government that did not have enough sense to bring in a good Budget in an election year. That would be realistic. It is not that the Government probably did not want to do things before. I am sure that it had reasons for not doing certain things. We are grateful that, even if this is an election year, a number of people has been given something of which they are in need and which they will appreciate. I believe that this Budget will gain considerable public support for the Government when the election is held. This is not the main basis on which the Budget should be judged. 
The Budget is the most important document that is presented to this or any Parliament. It is deserving of the closest scrutiny and consideration by the people's representatives in Parliament. It must be evaluated against the background of Australia's welfare in its widest sense. This includes the economic well being of her people and the requirements of national security. My general reaction to this Budget was expressed in a public statement that I issued on Budget night. I then commended the Budget because it contained long overdue welfare reforms and was clearly aimed at securing a more equitable distribution of the nation's wealth. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party has severely criticised past Liberal Country Party budgets for the lack of concern and practical assistance shown to social service recipients generally. I welcome the pension increase of $1.75 per week for single pensioners. Surely this was the minimum that the Government could possibly have granted. However, it is a great improvement on the 50c per week that the Gorton Government offered to pensioners. This pension increase represents a rise of approximately 10 per cent, which is not very much more than the current rate of price increases which stands at 7 per cent. 
As I have done repeatedly in previous speeches on budgets. I express my continuing surprise at the discrepancy between the rate of pension for a single pensioner and for a married pensioner couple. Once again, the Budget continues this anomaly. A single pensioner enjoys a pension increase of $1.75 per week, while a husband and wife will receive a pension increase of only $1.25 per week each. On a fortnightly basis, the single pensioner will receive $40 while the married pensioner couple will receive only $34.50 each. This is a difference of $5.50 a fortnight. 
I know that it is argued that 2 people live cheaper than one person. I suppose that in many instances that would be realistic and true. Against that argument can be put the example of the combined pension of single pensioners living together who could be spinster sisters, bachelor brothers or any 2 people receiving single pensions and living under the one roof. Their combined pensions total $5.50 per week more than that received by a married pensioner couple. I know that this is one pf those problems that is difficult to solve. But I know also of many cases in which that is the position. It is to the disadvantage of the elderly married couple. 
I turn to the anomaly that arises in connection with rent allowances. The Government gives single people a rent allowance and in this Budget it is giving a rent allowance to couples in a rented house. Provided they pay rent they get this rent allowance. It has been increased by 100 per cent or thereabouts. That is good. I am glad that that is happening. But the old couple who have paid off their home and do not pay rent still have to meet rates and the cost of repairs. They have gone unnoticed and it is a pity. When travelling around the city in which I live, and its suburbs, I frequently see, as other honourable senators would see in their respective districts, many substantial homes which are deteriorating for want of paint, a bit of attention by a handy man or a carpenter or a plumber. I have said to the people with whom I have been travelling: 'I will bet you that if we had time to make a survey we would find that the occupants of that substantially built place are age pensioners who cannot afford to have it painted or to have a plumber repair the spouts and guttering. It is in a state of disrepair because of that.' It is something to be regretted because such substantial buildings represent good capital value. They have been allowed to deteriorate because of a lack of financial capacity on the part of the occupants to carry out repairs. Perhaps the Department of Social Services would consider doing something in that connection and assist such people to keep their properties in good repair. 
I believe that the real advance for the aged came in a variety of supplementary improvements. The means test limitations were increased to double their previous levels and this should give immediate benefit to thousands of pensioners. This gives my colleagues and I a lot of joy because I have said here year after year that the means test is an iniquitous thing. It is the penalty of thrift and providence. It has been an encouragement to people to waste their money during their active lives and not to think of their future. There are many people who are borderline cases. They are good, provident people. While they are paying taxes they were contributing to superannuation funds and similar funds such as retiring allowances - call them what you will - making provision for their old age, but under existing circumstances they cannot get a pension. They cannot get any recognition. They cannot get even the medical services or the pharmaceutical services. Yet somebody who has contributed to the minimum number of units that a superannuation scheme may lay down can get a pension. They also get the medical benefits and the pharmaceutical benefits because they said: 'Well, why should I make further sacrifice? Let the taxpayers keep me or help to keep me in my retirement.' This has a tendency to breed mendicancy which is not a good thing in a society such as ours. I welcome the indication from the Government that it is prepared to do something about the abolition of the means test over a period. It should be encouraged in this aim because it is very important to a big section of our people, not only financially but also psychologically. 
The fact that the committee of inquiry that the Government has appointed also will have the question of national superannuation referred to it is a second move which I strongly advocated in my Budget speech last year. The Government's doubling of the supplementary assistance to the really hard-up pensioners and the subsidy to nursing homes are practical and humanitarian steps which were absent in so many recent budgets. Despite the increase in pensions and supplementary assistance now available, there is one problem I would like to point out. This lies in the fact, which recent inquiries revealed, that 80 per cent of people eligible for some of these welfare services do not even know about them or how to receive the benefits. That is not an exaggeration. This 80 per cent failure has been demonstrated in relation to the subsidised health benefits scheme for low income earners. There is little doubt that it applies also to many other social services. Often the people who most need help are the people who are least able to find out the services for which they are eligible. They are the aged and the invalid and others in that category. Unless they have a relative or friend who can inform them of the benefits to which they are entitled they remain ignorant of what is available to them. 
A national superannuation scheme is the only solution to our social service problem. Honourable senators have heard me say this frequently and I do not want to dwell on the subject for too long. This is a big thing. It is something which should have been tackled  yeaTs  ago but there has not been that resolution in government which ls necessary to face up to a big problem. The Government was not prepared to grasp the nettle. The problem has grown and grown tremendously and has become a bigger problem. Do not let us defer it and delay it any longer. Let our people have the opportunity of subscribing to a national superannuation scheme. Let us all be contributors and let us all be beneficiaries under a scheme of a national character. That is the solution to the growing social services problem. 
We have been reading in the last few days of this poverty inquiry about which we received notice from the Government. It is very timely. I think the Government is very fortunate to obtain the services of Professor Henderson who already has done an immense amount of work on this question of poverty and the fields in which poverty exists. We hope that the inquiry will be a big success and I am sure that Professor Henderson will bring a realistic approach to the question. I know that when he is examining poverty and the pockets of poverty he will not miss the reasons for it. We have to look for the cause of the disease as well as the cure. We have to find out what evil influence is contributing to the lack of provision of a lot of things that people expect in life at this time and in our age. We have to ask ourselves whether we have provided excessive gambling facilities in our community; whether we have encouraged people to gamble on our TAB's and our poker machines; and whether we are inviting the misguided, the weak willed and the improvident in our community to spend on these things money which they can ill afford. 
We have to approach these things in a proper and complete way. People from all walks of life have to appreciate that they must learn to live within their means. I am not a kill-joy - anyone who knows me would concede that I am not - but it irks me a little when I see people, who I know are not in a position to do so, wasting money on things from which they cannot expect to make any gain. They are putting their hard earned money, in the case of the workers and the pensioners, into things that will not return them anything but will only have the effect of leaving them short and adding to their misery. I express tha hope that Professor Henderson will examine very thoroughly the merits of any scheme the Democratic Labor Party puts forward if we are given the opportunity to express our point of view. 
In dealing with this question of poverty the Government was wise to select Professor Henderson, and it was wise to make the terms of reference of the inquiry as wide as it did, because one can wager dollars to peanuts that had the Government not done so it would have been subjected to a lot of criticism. Those in Opposition have been bard pressed today to find any criticism at all. Professor Henderson often has been cited by the critics of the Government as an authority in this field, so they could scarcely offer any criticism about his appointment. I hope Professor Henderson will be able to overcome the problem of the growing complexity of welfare services by substituting one simple cash payment to the too many recipients of the incomprehensible maze of different subsidies, handouts, free services and other kinds of social welfare. Before finally leaving the question of pensions might I once again urge the Government to establish an independent tribunal of experts to determine pension rates. This proposal is not new to the Senate because from the time the DLP took a place in this Senate as an independent party it has been advocating the establishment of an independent tribunal of competent officers to determine pension rates and to take the question of pension rates out of the auction market so that it ceases to be a political football, which inevitably brings humiliation to recipients of the pension. 
Unfortunately, the really big welfare deficiency in this Budget - this has been the case in most of the recent LiberalCountry Party budgets - was the failure to increase the rate of child endowment or to do anything about child endowment. That is the weakness and that is the vacant spot in what is otherwise a very good Budget. A lot has been said about the need to help the family man. The only effective way in which to help the family man is through child endowment. He is in need of that additional assistance, and the DLP has always advocated that child endowment should be increased. Let us look at the position of a married man who has a wife and 4 or 5 children in relation to a single man who is receiving the same pay. We now can include in this, since we have equal pay for the sexes, the unmarried woman who has neither chick nor child to keep but who receives the same wage. I am not opposed to that. Is the married man who has a wife and 4 or 5 children to keep not entitled to something more than the single man or the single woman who have no obligations? Why are we so slow to recognise the worth of the family man to society? Why do we not give him a hand in the maintenance of his f amily? 
Yes, they are. They are Australia's best assets. Surely the Government does not need to hold an inquiry to discover that in practical terms thousands of families are obliged to live close to the poverty line. I refer to those families in which there are 4 or 5 children or more and the father is earning a low income. I refer also to widows who are struggling to raise their children. These are the families which are particularly in need of government concern and assistance. Perhaps the Government can remedy this serious Budget omission by making a firm commitment in its election programme to increase substantially in the next budget child endowment payments. 1 find it curious that a Budget which professes to help the family - in fact it takes important steps to do so - should in another instance discriminate against the family. 1 refer to the provision of $5m for child care centres. It is a very good move and one which surely seems designed to attract married women into the work force. I have no objection to mothers being free to work if they want to do so, but by failing to increase child endowment the Government has positively disadvantaged those mothers who wish to give full time care to their families, and particularly to their children. Those mothers receive no subsidy. Those mothers who elect to stay at home and look after their children are conducting child welfare centres of their own. There is no subsidy for them. The Government will subsidise child care centres^ - a good thing, too - 'when both parents go to work. 
I suggest that the inquiry into the taxation system, which is to be conducted by  Mr Justice  Asprey, might consider the possibility of abolishing the present system of concessional tax deductions, except for those deductions which directly benefit families. There is a great deal more that I would like to say in connection with the Budget, but tonight I am obviously disadvantaged by my heavy cold. Had it not been for the fact that the debate on the Budget has not been very lively, I would not have spoken tonight. (Extension of time granted). I will not take the full extension, but I want to conclude in an orderly fashion. I have limited my speech because my larynx is not the best. 
 Senator Mulvihill  says that my thorax is not the best.  His  knowledge of the body is about as good as his knowledge of politics. 
 That does not make  Senator Mulvihill  right. If 1 want a plumber I send for a plumber. If I want a doctor I send for a doctor. Inflation, which raises the level of tax being paid by continually shifting people into higher tax brackets, is felt by all taxpayers under our existing tax system. Therefore I welcome the Budget's major tax cuts, which will average 10 per cent, and the associated increase in dependant deductions. The Budget's associated proposal to lift the minimum taxable income to $1,041. per annum is a good step and one that is long overdue. 
We welcome the announcement with regard to estate duties because, as honourable senators know, we have pioneered the matter in this chamber from the time my colleague  Senator Byrne  moved an amendment to an amending estate duties Bill, which amendment was defeated because the ALP and a large section of the Government parties voted against it. Since then we have carried on the campaign. We are glad to welcome to our ranks  Senator Negus  who is interested in this matter. He is a new recruit to the DLP's anti-estate duty party. 
 There is nothing wrong with him. He is of good character. The Budget has raised the exemption level for primary producers, and this step is only just. It has always been unfair that primary producers, because they are running a family business rather than a company, have to pay off their property during their lifetime and, when they have paid it off, all too often the Commonwealth and State estate duties take a large proportion of these hard earned productive assets. The home savings grant has been increased from $500 to $750. This increase also is in conformity with DLP policy. The acknowledgment of credit union savings is something for which we have barracked here. Honourable senators will recollect that  Senator Little  played a very important part in getting the Government to recognise this factor. 
I deal now with the proposal to establish a national rural bank, something for which the DLP can claim some credit. Nothing gladdened my heart more than to hear  Mr Sinclair,  the Minister for Primary Industry, announce that it was the Government's intention to establish a national rural bank with the particular purpose of providing long term loans. 
 I suppose it has. This bank will be something special. It will be established by the Government to aid primary producers and to keep on the land people who have been there all their lives and who have run into debt because of circumstances beyond their control. 
 I can see no fault in it. We have lived off the back of the sheep and off the back of the primary producer for a long time. Surely we will not allow this country, which is basically a primary producing country, to drift away from primary production because of the Government's failure to recognise what is an essential requirement of the maintenance and furtherance of this great country. The bank will be established to deal with specific cases, as distinct from everything else, I take it. That is our idea of how it will operate. It will provide long term loans at a minimum rate of interest. Deductions will be made for administrative costs, but the remainder of the money will be made available. The money is available. 
I listened with interest to the speech made last night by  Senator Gietzelt.  I listened to it intently. Having been a Premier and Treasurer of a State, I commend him for the great industry and the gre it research that he put into his study of the financial relationship between the Commonwealth and the States. While I do not agree with all his contentions, I commend him for his industry and research. The position today is no different from what it was in Chifley's time or in Curtin's time. There were no great signs of generosity in Menzies' time or in Fadden's time. 
That could be true. People expect more from State governments, too. I think they are getting more. The States are getting a lot more from the Commonwealth than they got when I was Premier. The manner in which the States use their money is the important thing. Wc are very happy about this proposal to establish a national rural bank. It is just another example of the DLP leading and others following. We will continue to lead in the important and essential matters concerning this nation. We will not be bogged down by a lot of trivia. We put matters in their proper order of priorities. That is why we have advocated, since the formation of our Party, that defence should be high in the order of priorities. I am glad that the Government recognises the necessity to provide adequate defence - to build up our Navy and our Air Force. To keep ourselves prepared for any attack that might take place is nothing more or less than insurance for the defence of our people. Other speakers from my Party will contribute to the debate later. 
Even though I have been hard to listen to tonight because of my repeated interruptions by coughing I believe that I have covered most of the ground that 1 wanted to cover. I conclude by saying that the DLP is pleased with the main effects of the Budget, namely, to extend social welfare reforms and to attempt a more equitable distribution of Australia's wealth. We hope that the failure to increase child endowment will be remedied before the coming election. We are concerned that the Budget fails to recognise or provide sufficient weapons to combat inflation. But it avoids the error made by many past Treasurers of spreading its benefits so widely that no one notices them. Lastly, its emphasis is placed on the family man and it seeks to alleviate his more pressing economic problems. The DLP hopes that this emphasis will continue in following Budgets because in our view the family man is the basis of a sound and healthy Australia. Let us help him in every practical and possible way. I. believe that in addition to making it a contribution to his existence we will be making a very valuable one to Australia's continuance. 
 The Senate members pf the Democratic Labor Party join with the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  in supporting the motion in ' connection with the atrocities perpetrated by a number of irresponsible, callous, murderous individuals at the Olympic Games. .Their act is to be deplored by every justice minded person. It shows how careful we in this country have to be, particularly those who are engaged in formenting bitterness against those to whom they are opposed. It shows how wrong it is to introduce politics and national issues into the domain of sport. It is not so very long ago that in Australia there were demonstrations against a visiting sporting team. 
They were bitter and violent demonstrations which could have led to a similar occurrence in Australian cities. In Brisbane, where the Springboks played, the temper and bitterness of the people demonstrating against the visiting team were seen in a demonstration outside the Tower Mill Motel where the demonstrators chanted, screamed and yelled bitterness. They sat on the streets. They even included allegedly responsible members of Parliament. On one occasion during the visit of that football team a knife was taken from the person of one of the demonstrators. This indicates very clearly that he was there to do damage and to destroy or injure some individual. 
It is a true report of what occurred. Then there was the protest by some members of the public, and some members of the Press too, against the action taken by the police to protect people and property, and to give the sick people in the Holy Spirit Hospital what they were entitled to - rest and quite - during their period of illness. The demonstrators had been appealed to many times to give consideration to the sick but the appeal fell on deaf ears. I mention this to show that at that time we were fortunate not to have suffered in Australia an incident similar to that which happened in Munich. The responsibility is not entirely with those young people who are engaged to carry out this irresponsible work. The responsibility for all this lies at the feet of those who organise the young people and who urge them into this irresponsible, murderous conduct. 
Of course everybody in the world is staggered and shocked by what has happened at. Munich. I share the view expressed by  Senator Murphy  that to respond to this kind of action by murdering other people is not the solution. At least in this country let some commonsense prevail. Let us have a cessation or a suspension, anyway, of all this pressure of building up the temper of young people and urging them into conflict with the law and with individual members in our community. This is a timely warning for people in this country that they should take stock of the position. I repeat very determinedly that what happened in Munich could have happened in Brisbane where the Springboks were playing football. It needed only some fanatic - and there were plenty of them about - urged to do his worst, to prevent the Springboks from playing. It needed only someone with a rifle to gain admission to the sports ground who would have been able to pick off every member of the Springboks team as it ran on to the field. That is not beyond the imagination and, feasibly, that could have happened. We can see from the interjections of Opposition senators just who are behind the formation of these disturbances and protests. These persons are urging young people to do these things. Young people of 17, 18 and 19 years of age are being influenced and told what to do. They are told to make as much disturbance as they can and to destroy as much property as they can. We find this situation even in the field of trade unionism today. Anyone who does not agree with the left wing members of trade unions is assaulted and knocked about. The building workers destroy property during a period of strike. Where is this young country going? Are we going to follow the performances of people in other countries? Please God that sanity will reign here in this democracy and there will be enough people in this country to suppress this element which is trying to gain control of Australia. Let us all band together, particularly those who claim to be responsible citizens of this country, so that there will be no recurrence of what took place here during the visit by the Springboks and so that we will never have a recurrence of the atrocities perpetrated at Munich during the Olympic Games. 
I rise to support the proposal submitted by the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Drake-Brockman).  Probably because of my personal experience I have always been a great believer in the view that the Leader of the Government has the unquestionable right to determine the order of the business of the Senate. He must be conceded the right of knowing just what business is on hand and just what time will be involved in disposing of it. 
I was amused, really, to listen to the reasons advanced by  Senator Murphy  as to why he felt it necessary to move the amendment.  His  attitude reminded me somewhat of a curious child who wanted to know something and who could not find out and because he could not find out that he wanted to know and what so many other people wanted to know he was being irked by it. Because  Senator Murphy  was being irked about it he elected to make some sweeping allegations and charges about people not having sufficient courage, capacity, ability or mentality to arrive at a decision. It is very easy to take up that attitude, and I do not think that  Senator Murphy  was genuinely serious in what he said and on moving the amendment. He wants to know the date of the election. 
Honourable senators have a right to be told when it is disclosed by the person whose prerogative it is to determine the date of the election. 
It is not a one-party state. The Australian Labor Party leader in South Australia does not disclose to the world the date on which he will go to the people. Also, this date is not disclosed by the Premier of Western Australia or Tasmania. I was a Premier of a State and it was my own prerogative as it is the undisputable right of the leader of a government, to determine the date of an election and to disclose it when he believes the time is propitious and in the best interests of the workings of Parliament. After all, in the ordinary circumstances and following history, elections have been held here in the first week of December; they have also been held in the month of November. The strongest argument for what the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate is putting forward tonight is that he is desirous of dealing with the business of the Senate as expeditiously as possible in the event of the date of the election being announced which would terminate this session earlier than would normally be the case. That is an argument which strongly supports the proposal put forward by the Acting Leader of the Government tonight. Anyway, none of us has any cause to quibble about the additional working times that are proposed or contained in the Acting Leader's submission. None of us will die from overwork so far as the sittings here are concerned. 
Is the Minister representing the Postmaster-General aware that on last night's programme 'This Day Tonight'  Dr James  Cairns used an appearance on the programme to utter a wholly unfounded, malicious libel against the Democratic Labor Party by accusing it of sympathy with the perpetrators of the Sydney bomb outrage? Why did the Australian Broadcasting Commission not invite a DLP representative to appear on the same programme so that  Dr Cairns'  lying libel might be denied and exposed? Is this not an example of the unbalanced bias of which the ABC has so often been accused? 
I would like to raise a matter for my information and for the information of a great number of people in the community who applaud this measure. I am a little puzzled by the facet of the Bill which provides for subsidies of varying amounts in the various States. For instance, if honourable senators peruse the schedule they will find that in Victoria these nursing homes merit a bigger subsidy than they are in some of the other States. I would like to know the explanation for that. It occurs to me that the people responsible for the conduct of these nursing homes who were anxious to keep costs down are now being penalised when compared with those people who increased their charges every time the pension increased. Those who increased their charges will benefit by getting a higher subsidy than those who tried to keep their charges down to a moderate amount. If that is the case, then I believe it is most unfair and that it is poor reward for those who tried to keep their charges to a moderate level. 
 ls this not the same legislation? 
It is an allied Bill. 
 Well, that gives me greater opportunity to expand on what I want to say. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
Because I recollect certain honourable senators being prevented from reading extracts from newspapers, I ask you,  Mr President,  whether  Senator Murphy  was in order in reading extracts from newspapers in connection with the telephone tapping or eavesdropping that is taking place. All I want to know is: What is the rule in connection with this? I do not like seeing some people being treated differently from others. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does the Government's decision on assistance for schools, announced by the Prime Minister on 11th May 1972, propose to raise per capita payments to children in non-government schools to 40 per cent of the assessed cost of educating a child in government schools. 
For the nominated percentage of 40 per cent (20 per cent Federal and 20 per cent State) to become effective, will each State Government need to raise its own per capita payments by an appropriate amount. 
Will the Minister indicate what reactions, if any, have been received from the various State Governments in relation to the Prime Minister's proposals. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN - The Prime Minister has been advised by the relevant Department that the answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
State Ministers of Education agreed to provide information on expenditure for government schools to be incorporated in an assessment of the national average of expenditure per pupil in government schools on which the Commonwealth's grants will be calculated. The compilation of this national average is proceeding and should be completed by late October. 
As far as the proposed States' 20 per cent share is concerned, State governments are still considering their position including the impact on their budgets of raising their support for independent schools to the 20 per cent level. Most States have indicated that they are prepared to move eventually to bring their overall assistance to independent schools to a level equal to 20 per cent of government school running costs for the number of pupils concerned. I would expect each State to indicate its intentions about grants to independent schools for 1973 before the end of the 1972 school year. 
-My colleagues and I are fully conscious of the extraordinary circumstances associated with the closure of this session of the Senate. We know full well that there is to be an election on 2nd December and that there will be a dissolution of the House of Representatives on 2nd November, which necessitates an earlier closure of the Senate than normally would be the case. On occasions we have sat until 10th December. I appreciate the position in which the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  is placed. I have always conceded that the Government had the right to arrange the business of the Parliament. While we are anxious to help  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson over his difficulties, there are on the business sheet Bills in the names of private members which we feel are every bit as important as some of the Bills which are listed under Government Business. I ask the Leader of the 
Government for an undertaking that if we give precedence to Government Business for next Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday we might consider sitting on Friday and the following Tuesday and Wednesday to consider the private members Bills which come under General Business. Let us divide the time that we estimate we have available to us and give precedence to Government Business in the first part of that time and deal with General Business in the second part of that time. By that means there would be general satisfaction.  I  do not know  - I  am only presuming -  but  I  would imagine that no-one would be greatly inconvenienced if we did not deal with the Crimes ('Hijacking of Aircraft) Bill. 
I accept the Minister's assurance on that.  I  do not know the context of the Bill. What is the position with regard to the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Bill? 
I  am sure that some Bills listed under Government Business are no more important than are some Bills listed under General Business. 
Yes. A lot of Bills are very important. While we are prepared to help the Minister over his difficulties,  I  think he should be equally as anxious to help us to deal with legislation in which we are particularly interested. We are prepared to forgo dealing with some Bills, but we are anxious to deal with others. For that reason, in return for our support for his motion, he should indicate that he will give serious and sympathetic consideration to the appeal that  I  make. He tempts us a bit with these contingency orders that we have on the paper. We might put one of those on him unless he does something. I am not threatening him, just warning him. 
Just remarking. In all seriousness  I  ask the Leader of the House to give sympathetic consideration to our request. We are aware of his difficulty and that because of the special circumstances we shall have less time than normally. But let us co-operate.  Senator Murphy  has truly said that the Leader of the House has received much co-operation this session from both  Senator Murphy  and me.  I  make that appeal and at the same time I say that we are prepared to support it - but let it be for a limited time. 
-I indicate on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party which I lead that in normal circumstancesI would readily support the objection made by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  But in view of the special circumstances, that is, that we are racing to the conclusion of this session because of the dissolution of the House of Representatives which will take place on 2nd November and because there is a good deal of business to be transacted to enable us to be out of this place by that date, I am inclined to concede that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  has some justification in seeking to restrict question time to 45 minutes not as a general rule but only for the remaining days of this session. 
No-one can argue, successfully anyway, that there has not been abuse of question time in the Senate. I do not ask a lot of questions. Information which I desire to seek 1 seek by direct communication with departments or Ministers. After many years of experience in parliamentary life I am satisfied that a lot of questions asked here are not asked so much for information but for the propaganda value which honourable senators hope to get because of the appearance of the question and answer in Hansard. There were a few questions asked this morning in connection with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. We all know that the ABC is an autonomous body. It is charged with the management of its own affairs. ,1 think that it is just too much to ask the Parliament to provide answers in relation to some staff arrangement or the resignation of members of the staff, the total number of which would be great. If one member or 10 members of the ABC elect to resign, that is their right. I do not think anybody is going to be disturbed at their reasons. 
It is autonomous and it runs its own affairs. We have had evidence and statements from the  Chairman  of the Commission that he has never beep pressed by either the Government or the Opposition in relation to the conduct of the affairs of the ABC. We have had complaints about the ABC and from time to time we have, aired those complaints. We have written for an explanation. We claim that, that is our right. But we are not asking the Senate to answer for the resignation of an individual who has been employed by the ABC. An employee of  a  Government department can resign. He might be dissatisfied with his immediate boss. But who is concerned with that? That is a matter between the employee and the departmental head. However, that is only one instance. 
During question time we have lengthy questions and very lengthy replies which take up a good deal of time. I have sat here and listened to them day after day. Question time extends well over an hour. Having regard to all the circumstances of the case and because of the special circumstances I support the motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 
 Mr President,  the session which is about to conclude has been a heavy one, having regard to the lesser time that we have sat because of the dissolution of the House of Representatives. Normally the Budget session concludes in late November or early December. On several occasions it has concluded on about 10th December. In this session we have rushed through a lot of legislation and a lot of business in less time. Inevitably, on occasions that has caused a little fraying of the nerves, and because of the fraying of the nerves we have had little exhibitions of heat - something that the Senate never sees me display. However, that is something associated with parliamentary life. 
Only one of our number in this chamber is required to face his masters at the forthcoming Federal election and that is  Senator Bonner. Senator Bonner,  during the time that he has been here, has conducted himself in a very exemplary way and his contribution to debates has been very sound and wise. He has been wise enough to speak on matters that he knew something about. He did not rise to talk for the sake of talking, which so many people appear to do. I cannot wish him success at the polls because the DLP will have a candidate opposing him. But I can do the second best thing. If our candidate cannot win I hope  Senator Bonner  does. I can assure him now that he will get our preferences, so I cannot do better than that. I want to say thank you to the Ministers' staffs, other staffs and all of those with whom I come in contact who have been courteous to me in return for the courtesy that I have displayed to them. I particularly want to thank the attendants because they are invariably courteous and friendly and I get on very well with them as I do with most people who have any sense of reason. 
The dining room staff are always very gracious and helpful. I cannot blame them for the standard of the meals that are served to members in the dining room. They leave a lot to be desired. I do not know whether it is inferior food or inferior cooking. That might be a good way of not having to criticise the cook. Nevertheless, the meals leave a lot to be desired. 
I am not a gourmet by any means. I like food properly cooked and properly served. Of course, we will always get these complaints. That is normal. I always claim to be the easiest man in Australia to please as far as food is concerned. My wife has never had any complaints from me about the food she has presented on the dining table. 
I thank you,  Mr President,  for giving me what I deserve as far as this House is concerned. I never look for any quarter and I do not give any. I thank the  Clerk  of the Senate and his staff. I even thank the Press for the little they give me. I do not blame the employees of newspapers. They are only workers and I have always had a great sympathy for them. In my 40 years in public life I have never had any disagreement with pressmen. It is the bloke above them with whom I have the grievance. Our relationship has been cordial. So, I have no ill feelings to anyone in particular. To those who wish me well I reciprocate, and to those who wish me ill I reciprocate. So we are on an even footing. However, to those who believe in Christianity and in Christ and his birth I wish a very happy Christmas. To those who do not, I hope they will fit in with the Christians and have a good time too. 
I hope the result of the election will be in the best interests of Australia, because after all that is the only thing that matters - what is best for Australia. Irrespective of the Party in government, it is charged with grave responsibility, particularly now when I feel, and see so much evidence of it around me, that our nationhood is slipping and deteriorating quickly. 
Unless those who are charged with government recognise this and try to arrest the drift, there will be a poor lookout for our children and the future generation of Australia. They will have nothing for which to thank us. In fact, when they realise just what we had in our possession and what we allowed to drift from us, they will have contempt for us and will despise us. Before it is too late let governments of Australia awaken to their responsibility, and instead of fostering and encouraging the permissiveness that is abroad let them accept responsibility and take the reins strongly and firmly, and bring Australia back to the guidelines that our parents, the pioneers of this country, laid for us. 
 Mr President,  I seek leave to make a statement on party leadership. 
 I  have a similar notice of motion.  1  give notice of the following motion: 
Contingent on the  President  proceeding to the Placing of Business on any day, I shall move - 
Thai so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent  Senator Gair  moving a motion relating to the order of business on the notice paper. 

 Senator GAIR (Queensland - Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party) - I  give notice that on the next day of sitting  I  shall move: 
Thai the Senate condemns the announced proposal of the Government to withdraw Australian military units from Singapore. Such withdrawal will threaten the continued presence of Britain in South East Asia, imperil Australia's friendship with Malaysia and Singapore and destroy the confidence of Indonesia in Australia's interest in that country.^ security and integrity; ultimately it will imperil the prospects of a continued American presence in the region. These consequences pose a major threat to Australias security in the uncertain decade which lies before this country. 
That, furthermore, the Senate condemns the acknowledgment by the Deputy Prime Minister that the policy of the Federal Government on this vital security question will be determined by a body not responsible to the Federal Parliament - the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Parly. 
That the Senate unequivocally supports the retention of Australian defence units in Singapore. 
 Mr President,  the members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party desire to join with the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  in the sentiments they have expressed regarding the 3 gentlemen who have recently gone to reap their eternal reward. Many of the things that I had intended to say have already been said. However, I believe that it can be said with safety that both American Presidents about whom we are speaking were men of great character, great fortitude and great determination and men who had a genuine sympathy for the less fortunate sections of their own country and other countries. At every opportunity that arose during their period of office they indicated very clearly and very definitely that America would not stand by and allow small nations to be overrun, particularly by communists. 
It is true to say that both Presidents came into office on the death of the  President  of the time. Harry Truman was Vice-President for a year, 1 believe, before  President  Roosevelt's death on 12th April 1945. However, he had the satisfaction of announcing Germany's capitulation on 8th May and of accepting Japan's surrender on 14th August. He also attended the Potsdam Conference in July 1945. As someone has already said, he asked Congress to contribute S400m in military and economic aid to Greece and Turkey to stop the spread of communism. I believe that the Marshall Plan, which aided so many countries, was initiated by him. Truman's resistance to Stalin's plan for world domination produced the so-called Cold war. This culminated in June 1950 in the invasion of South Korea by the North. Truman committed United States forces promptly under the United Nations flag to resist this naked act of military aggression. Truman's actions ultimately resulted in saving South Korea's independence, thus aiding the freedom of all South East Asian countries, including Australia. Although chance placed this ordinary, simple man in a position of enormous influence in the great country of America, he showed the courage and determination which rescued Europe from total collapse and helped to block Stalin's armed might from occupying Europe and overrunning Asia. He was a man of great achievement and a great force in world affairs. 
In many ways Lyndon Johnson was a similar type of man.  His  achievements in relation to domestic policies also have been referred to. They were very notable.  His  war on poverty was an admirable one. Other achievements were his civil rights Bill in 1964 and his call to create a great society. I feel that his greatest performance was in connection with Vietnam. If it had not been for the pressures placed upon him as a result of America's involvement in the Vietnam war, I feel that he probably would still be alive. He felt, just as Truman did in relation to South Korea, that America had an obligation and a duty to protect South Vietnam from the onslaughts of the power drunk communists from the North who were aided and abetted by outside communist countries. 
The pressures on Johnson were terrific. The pressures to cut and run and so preserve his own political future were immense and beyond measure, but he was too big a man to do that. To his great credit he refused to sell out South Vietnam and to betray the United States' solemn promise to support a small beleagured nation. Johnson bought time for every nation in South East Asia. I conscientiously believe that his stand in South Vietnam ensured a non-communist Indonesia. History undoubtedly will add to his stature as a great President and will not look upon him merely as a clever politician. 
Together with other members of the Commonwealth Parliament I had the pleasure of renewing acquaintance with former  President  Johnson in America last year. He showed signs of being a fairly sick man, but he was very bright in his approach to matters.  His  wife proved to be a very delightful hostess on that occasion. We sympathise deeply with her, as we do with the relatives of the late  Mr Truman. 

 Mr Pearson was a man of a different character, it is true. I feel that his main contribution and concern was to work tirelessly for a durable and just world peace under effective international supervision. Could any man have a greater ideal? 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN (Western Australia) - My Australian Country Party colleagues and I join with the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator 
Withers) and the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  in paying a tribute to these 3 great leaders. Both Harry S. Truman and Lyndon Johnson were thrust into the presidency of their country, and both men were able to win election in their own right. I believe that Harry S. Truman became a very great leader in his own country. He certainly became a leader in the world community. The Truman Doctrine and the Marshall Aid Plan have won him world fame. I understand that 2 of Lyndon Johnson's great heroes were  President  Lincoln and  President  Roosevelt. I know that  President  Johnson was responsible for the passage through the American parliament of more legislation granting civil rights and fighting against poverty than was any other  President.  On behalf of Country Party senators I extend to the families of the 3 men our deepest sympathy. 
Is the. Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of Press reports that several Cabinet Ministers were present at a send-off for Australia's new Ambassador to Peking,  Dr Stephen  Fitzgerald? What Minister or Ministers, if any, were present on this occasion? Is it true, as reported, that many of the guests sat down during the playing of the National Anthem, but enthusiastically supported the toast 'Long Live  Chairman  Mao'? If so, does the Minister agree that it was undiplomatic for the new Ambassador to have remained as a guest at this function? Will the Minister give an assurance that in future Australia's diplomatic business will be conducted in a more seemly manner? 
I direct a question to the Special Minister of State. 1 draw attention to pages 85 and 163 of the 'Australian Government Directory 1973 Interim Edition' published by the Minister's Department. Is the  Mr F.  Kirwan, designated as the private secretary to the Minister for Education, the same  Mr Frank  Kirwan who was the defeated Australian Labor Party member of the House of Representatives for the electorate of Forrest in Western Australia? Is the  Mr A.  D. Kennedy designated on page 163 as press secretary to the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry, the same  Mr David  Kennedy who was the defeated Australian Labor Party member of the House of Representatives for the electorate of Bendigo in Victoria? 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether it if proposed to appoint the following people to the new Australian Council for the Arts announced by the Prime Minister on 26th January: Professor R. I. Downing,  Mrs Judith  Wright McKinney  Mr Clifton  Pugh and  Mr J.  L. Menadue? Are Professor Downing and  Mrs Wright-McKinney  the people who signed a public letter prior to the last general election calling for a change of government? Is  Mr Pugh  the person who recently painted a portrait of  Mr Whitlam?  Is he the  chairman  of the arts policy committee of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party? Is  Mr Menadue  a former private secretary to  Mr Whitlam? 
The subject matter of this debate is one that has interested me for very many years. More particularly, it has interested me since publicity has been given to statements made by the present Prime Minister of Australia  (Mr Whitlam)  suggesting that the border between Queensland and Papua New Guinea should be lowered which would have the effect of handing over certain Torres Strait islands to Papua New Guinea. I have had ideas in connection with this. I have sought conversation and discussion with people who I believed were in a better position than I to judge the situation because of their residence in that part of the world on many occasions. I listened to the excellent speech delivered by  Senator Byrne.  I congratulate him on the case that he put forward in support of those who say that there should not be any interference with the border between Queensland and Papua New Guinea, principally because of the effect it would have on the people who are resident on the islands to be affected. 
I had hoped that I would learn something from the  Deputy  Leader of the Government  (Senator Willesee)  and subsequent speakers from the Government side in support of the case for the removal of the boundary. I had hoped that some constructive case would have been put forward but I regret to have 10 say that I have not heard anything here tonight from the Government side that would cause me to alter my opinion. 

 Senator Willesee at the outset was,I believe, offensively critical of  Senator Byrne's  submission, which is not like his attitude in the ordinary course of events. Is the strain of office and the tension associated with it taking its toll? I do not know. He denigrated the suggestion that a referendum of the people concerned should be conducted. As democrats we have always subscribed to the referendum system with a view to obtaining the viewpoint of people on any controversial issue. 
 If you want to descend to municipal politics, I point out that I am in the national Parliament. 
 Why did you not conduct it? However, I will not pull up todear with every dog that barks at my caravan. 
 What is your name? 
 You have a couple of aliases. I believe.  Mr President,  I have not heard a case in support of the suggestion for removal of the boundary. The referendum proposal, I think, has some merit. At least the views and the feelings of the people most intimately concerned in this matter should be obtained. Who could object to that procedure? The only ones who could object would be those who would fear the result. Of course these islanders are entitled to some consideration before anything is done. Whether it can be done constitutionally or not is a matter of opinion. I do not think the Commonwealth Government has the power to do it. We have heard a lot of things over the years. During the last war there was the Brisbane Line strat egy by which the Government of the day was supposedly prepared to give to the Japanese that section of Queensland north of Brisbane. Today it would appear there is a strategy to hand over the Torres Strait Islands north of the Whitlam Line to Papua New Guinea. We do not go along with that. Are these people to be ignored? According to  Senator Willesee  and  Senator Wheeldon  they should be ignored because there would be no merit in holding a referendum. They also denigrated the suggestion that there should be a referendum, and Hansard will prove that what I say is true. 
I am never slow to apologise when I am wrong, but I have never known you to apologise because you are always wrong. As  Senator Byrne  said, these islanders are not New Guineans or Papuans. They are a distinct race of people who have occupied these islands for generations. They have as much right to say as  Sir Waller  Scott said: 
Breathes there the man, with soul so dead, 
Who never to himself hath said, 
This is my own. my native land! 
It is their native land; it is the land they know; it is the land where they were born and bred and where they have reared their families. Of course they have an equal right to say whether they want the boundary moved.I do not believe that any government would be entitled to act otherwise.I am amazed that alleged Australian Labor Party men would deny them the right of having a say in their future.I am amazed that these islanders are to be treated with utter disdain and contempt. This attitude confirms the deterioration that has taken place in the Labor movement since I was in it. A lot has been said from honourable senators on the Government side. We have heard a lot of noise but very little logic or any case in support of the proposal for the alteration of the boundary. These people are Queenslanders, and they are Australians too. This question should concern not only Queensland but also the nation of Australia. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development upon notice: 
Is  Mr Harry  Stein, referred to in Press Statement number 41, as  'Mr Urea's  Press Secretary' the same Mi Stein who was formerly me Press Gallery correspondent tor ,De Tribune' newspaper and campaign director for the Communist Party in the 1964 Senate Elections. 

 Senator CAVANAGH- The Minister for Urban and Regional Development has advised the answer to  Senator Gair's  question is yes. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Prime Minister ever visited the Torres Strait Islands; if so, when. 

 Senator MURPHY- The Prime Minister has supplied the following information for answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes; in July 1968. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is the Prime Minister a Grand Master of the Order of St Agatha of Paterno, Malta; if so, when did he receive this overseas honour. 

 Senator MURPHY-The Prime Minister has supplied the following information for answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In August 1969 I was appointed a Knight Grand Cross of Grace in the Roll of Merit of the Military Order of the Collar of Saint Agatha of Paterno. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the date of the death of a former President of the United Slates of America, Harry S. Truman. 
What was the date on which the Prime Minister sent condolence messages to  President  Nixon and  Mrs Truman. 
What was the actual date on which copies of these condolence messages were released to the Press  in  Press Statement M/15. 

 Senator MURPHY - The Prime Minister has provided the following information for answer to the honourable senator's question: 
26th December 1972. 
27th December 1972. 
27th December 1972. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it true, as Press reports claim, that the Department of the Treasury has presented to the Cabinet a submission which claims that the economy is approaching boom conditions? Is it also true that the Treasury warns that the overriding threat to the nation's economic health is no longer unemployment but the serious danger of runaway inflation? In the interests of open government will the Minister see that this document is made available for public perusal? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Can tse Minister explain why very little publicity, If any, has been given recently to the problem of inflation, which is still Australia's greatest problem? Is it not correct that prices, as measured by the consumer price index, have greatly increased since 2nd December last year? Did he note the Press report that in the last  12 months food prices in Sydney have risen, by 30 per cent? Is he aware that in Brisbane, more than 100 grocery and food items have increased in price recently? Has he heard ' about the uproar . in Brisbane over increases in the prices of bread and meat, and the announcement in today's Press that meat pies and pasties will rise in price to 20c? Why is: it that now when inflation is worse than it Was .prior to the election we do not hear much about it, whereas before the election Labor spokesmen were forecasting the collapse of the economy? 
'My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour. I ask the Minister: Why was the Minister for Works, and not the. Minister for Repatriation, who represents the Minister for Labour in this chamber, deputed last night to reveal the Government's changed attitude on the 4 weeks leave question and its preparedness to support 4 weeks leave for all public servants regardless of union membership? Does this development indicate a change in the representation in this place of the Ministers who are supposed to represent Ministers in the other place? Does the Minister for Repatriation intend at a later stage in today's proceedings to make a ministerial statement outlining the change in the Government's attitude? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Was it with his agreement or knowledge that the claim was made in Canberra on Friday last by anonymous Commonwealth officials that the Commonwealth Police had warned the Queensland Police 2 weeks ago that the Whisky Au Go- 
Go nightclub was a target for underworld violence? Has the Attorney-General noted the statement by the Queensland Police Commissioner that he received such advice only on Friday night, a full 24 hours after the fire which killed 15 persons and destroyed the nightclub? Who is telling the truth - the Queensland Police Commissioner or the anonymous Commonwealth officials who presumably are associated with the Commonwealth Police or the Minister's Department? 
asked the Minister representing  the  Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
Why has a proposed women's basketball tour of Taiwan, scheduled for November, been cancelled. 
What was the Government advice reported to have been given to basketball officials in Canberra on 19th February. 
Is the Government responsible for the decision to negotiate a lour of Peking. 

 Senator WILLESEE - The answer to the honourable senators question is as follows: 
This question should be directed to the Women's Council of the Amateur Basketball Union of Australia. 
and (3) No Government advice to basketball officials was sought or given on 19th February 1973. On 15th January 1973. the Women's Council of the Amateur Basketball Union of Australia wrote to the Minister for Foreign Affairs asking for a considered opinion concerning its proceeding with a visit to Taiwan by the Australian Women's Basketball team and for advice whether the Government could grant any financial assistance for a visit to China. The Department of Foreign Affairs replied to this letter on 24th January, making the following points among others. 
The Government does not seek to prevent or hinder continuing private contacts with Taiwan. It was for the Council to decide whether it wished to include Taiwan in its proposed tour. 
The Government is hoping for an expansion of Australian-Chinese contacts at all levels and a visit to China by the Australian Women's Basketball Team would fit in well with this, but again it was for the Council to decide whether to arrange such a tour or not. 
The Council's request for financial assistance in the event that it arranged a visit to China was under consideration. 
asked the Minister representing  the  Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did  Senator Wheeldon  claim on Hanoi Radio on 23rd January 1973 that there were Government Ministers from Australia who, by their actions, showed they supported the North Vietnamese: if so, was the report correct and who are the Ministers? 

 Senator WILLESEE - The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government feels under no obligation to comment on statements made or reported to have been made by members of parliament in the course of private visits overseas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What were the remarks made by  Mr Whitlam  concerning  Dr Cairns  and his invitation for the National Liberation Front and Hanoi representatives to visit 
Australia which were made on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's program 'Four Corners' telecast on 19th and 20th September 1970. 

 Senator WILLESEE- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 1 wish to remind the honourable senator that  a  ceasefire agreement in Vietnam has recently been signed and that Australia now recognises the Government of North Vietnam. I do not propose, therefore, to table the record of a television interview which I gave over 2 and a half years ago, when circumstances were quite different. 
 Mr President,  I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That, in view of the fact that  Mr Wilfred  Burchett has publicly stated that he is not opposed to a public investigation of his past activities, a Select Committee of the Senate be appointed to inquire into and report upon - 
whether or not Wilfred Burchett, an Australian citizen, during the period of the conduct of the war in Korea in which Australian troops were in combat as part of a United Nations force against the military forces of North Korea, did engage in activities likely to impede the successful conclusion of the conflict for Australia and/or in such activities as were likely to give aid and comfort to the enemies of Australia and thereby prejudice the interests of the Australian nation, namely: 
personal participation in enemy interrogation of Australian servicemen held as prisoners of war, and 
devising and/or disseminating 'germ warfare' propaganda which was used against the interests and activities of the United Nations force; 
whether at a time when the People's Republic of China and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics were giving actual military aid to the forces of North Korea then engaged in hostilities against the Australian troops in the field, Wilfred Burchett then had any professional relationship, remunerated or not, with either of those Governments; 
whether during the period of the conflict between North Vietnam and South Vietnam, in which Australian troops were engaged, whether as advisers to the military forces of South Vietnam or in actual conflict against the forces of North Vietnam, Wilfred Burchett then had any professional relationship, whether remunerated or not, with the Government of North Vietnam; 
whether at any time whatsoever Wilfred Burchett has had any professional relationships with the KGB of the Soviet Union; 
whether, in the event that any or all of the above questions is or are answered in the affirmative, such conduct by Wilfred Burchett, so established, constituted an offence against the criminal law of the Commonwealth; 
whether in the event that question (1) (e) is answered in the affirmative Wilfred Burchett is still punishable at law for any offence so constituted; 
whether, in the event that question (1) (e) is answered in the negative, the appropriate public law should be amended in necessary respects to provide that conduct of such nature by any person will in future constitute a breach of the criminal law of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
What are you crying about? We are giving him what he wants. We are trying to accede to his request. My notice of motion continues: 
That the Select Committee consist of 7 senators, three to be nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate and 4 other senators, two to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition, one to be nominated by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, and one to be nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. 
That the Committee may proceed to the dispatch of business notwithstanding that all members have not been appointed and notwithstanding any vacancy. 
That the Committee elect one of its members as Chairman. 
That the  Chairman  of the Committee may, from lime to time, appoint another member of the Committee to be the  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee, and that the member so appointed act as  Chairman  of the Committee at any time when there is no  chairman  or the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the Committee. 
That, in the event of an equality of voting, the  Chairman,  or the  Deputy Chairman  when acting as  Chairman,  shall have a casting vote. 
That the presence of 3 members of the Committee shall be necessary to constitute a meeting of the Committee for the exercise of its powers. 
That the Select Committee have power to send for and examine persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, to sit in open court or in private, notwithstanding any prorogation of the Parliament, and have leave to report from time to time its proceedings and the evidence taken and such interim recommendations as it may deem fit. 
That members of the public and representatives of the news media may attend and report any public session of the Committee unless the Committee otherwise orders. 
That the Committee be empowered to print from day to day such papers and evidence as may be ordered by it. A daily Hansard shall be published of such proceedings of the Committee as take place in public. 
That the Senate authorises the televising of public hearings of the Committee, at the discretion of the Committee, and under such rules as the Senate may adopt. 
That the Committee shall ensure that the operational methods of law enforcement agencies be protected from disclosure where that would be against the public interest. 
That the Committee report to the Senate on or before the last sitting of the Senate prior to 30th June 1973. 
That the foregoing provisions of this Resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
(5.12 - pursuant to contingent notice of motion I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent me moving a motion relating to the order of business on the notice paper. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I move: 
That intervening business be postponed until after consideration of General Business, notice of motion No. 9, relating to the appointment of a select committee. 
I do this out of consideration for the convenience of  Mr Wilfred  Burchett who is the subject of the proposed inquiry or investigation. I understand that the gentleman has an appointment in America early next month. As he has expressed publicly a desire for some investigation or some commission of inquiry into the allegations made against him I suggest that we proceed without delay. It would be most unfair to proceed with this proposed select committee in the absence of  Mr Burchett.  lt is for that reason that I have moved this motion. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What are the names, designations and salaries of all speech writers, public relations officers and press secretaries appointed by the Prime Minister and Ministers to their personal staffs. 
What were the previous positions held by the appointees. 
What other such positions have yet to be filled. 

 Senator MURPHY- The Prime Minister has supplied the following information for answer to the honourable senator's question: (1), (2) and (3) The names, designations and salaries of the relevant persons on my own staff are listed below. 
Press Secretaries, Public Relations Officers, Speech Writers etc. Appointed by the Prime Minister 
Press Secretary -  Mr Evan  Williams - $12,175 + $3,000 special allowance 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is the Minister in a position to throw any light on the very mysterious exchange which took place at  Mr Barnard's  Press Conference on 20th February 1973, during which it was alleged that a desk in  Mr Barnard's  office was cleared out. 
Does the Minister know whose desk was searched, by whom, for what reason, and on whose instructions. 

 Senator BISHOP- The Minister for Defence has supplied the following information as an answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) No deskin my office was searched. There was an occasion recently during structural alterations to my, office when a member of my staff considered it prudent to clear all papers before workmen undertook their tasks. I consider this to be a completely responsible action by one of my staff. 
I rise merely to intimate that the Bill has the approval of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Yesterday  Senator Webster  asked the Attorney-General whether he would agree to  Mr Barbour,  the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, appearing before the Senate for the purpose of answering certain questions. The Attorney-General replied that he would discuss the matter with  Mr Barbour.  Has he yet discussed the proposal with  Mr Barbour?  Does he intend to arrange for  Mr Barbour's  appearance before the Senate? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. In reply to a question by  Senator Guilfoyle  the Attorney-General has agreed to make available to the Leader of the Opposition a document for perusal. I ask him whether the Leader of the Opposition would be free to submit or show that document to me as the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party since I am just as interested in the matter as he is? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact that a number of Aboriginal girls who are employed in the Public Service at Canberra are to receive free travel from Canberra to their respective homes and return to enable them to spend Easter with their relatives? In addition, are the girls to be given leave on full pay for Tuesday, 24th April, Thursday, 26th April, and Friday, 27th April? If the answer is in the affirmative, can he tell me why white girls of equal or similar age and status are not to receive this concession? 
I am wondering what it is hoped to achieve by the establishment of a joint select committee on prices. I suppose, with all modesty, I can claim to have had more experience of price control than any other honourable senator in this chamber. Following the conclusion of the Second World War the Chifley Government asked the people of Australia by way of a referendum to entrust it with the power of price control. The people rejected that proposal. The responsibility for price control reverted to the States. It was my lot, as Minister for Labour in the Queensland Government, to undertake some form of price control. I can assure honourable senators that I made a conscientious attempt to control prices, particularly the prices of items which I believed could be classified as being essential to the daily lives of people. 
Soon after the States took responsibility for price control the Ministers from the various States who were responsible for price control met and consulted  Mr McCarthy,  who was later knighted, on his methods of price control and his formula in respect of price control. It was quite evident to me that federal control of prices failed because the Commonwealth Government undertook to control every item that one could think of, which was utterly impossible. It was controlling the prices of luxury footwear from Italy and expensive hats imported for the women of Australia. It had control over all items that one could think of. The Commonwealth Government failed to control prices because it undertook to do too much. I set about decontrolling those items in relation to which I considered there was ample competition in the community that would control their prices. To a great extent that is the right thing to do, except in those cases where the combines and the cartels determine the prices to be charged. There is not a lot one can do about that. 
I endeavoured to control the price of petrol and was courageous enough to take on the combines. Every other Minister in charge of price control in Australia, with the exception of Queensland, accepted the claims or approved the claims of the oil companies without requiring any documented proof of landed costs or anything else. We arranged for the petrol to be brought into Queensland, and we were in the process of building storage for that petrol, having failed to lease it, because the only people from whom we could leave it were the oil companies. Of course, it was not likely that they would aid us in that connection. But what thanks did I get? When I was expelled from the Queensland Branch of the Australian Labor Party, one of the charges levelled against me was that I brought disrepute on the Government of the State in fighting the oil companies on prices. Did honourable senators ever hear the like? Yet I had in my possession a telegram sent from thelate  Dr Evatt  expressing the congratulations of the Federal parliamentary Caucus. 
The same situation applied in relation to very many commodities. In New South Wales, the adjoining State, a Labor government was in power.  Mr Frank  Finnan, the Minister-in-Charge of Price Control, was decontrolling prices in New South Wales when we in Queensland were trying to control them. Because of section 92 of the Constitution which provides for free trade, the commodities whose prices I was endeavouring to control in the interests of the public went over the border and were being sold at any price in New South Wales because the Labor Government in that State was not prepared to make a genuine attempt to control prices. That has been my experience with price control. 
For the life of me I cannot see - nor could I have any hope - that the committee that is proposed to deal with this most important question can succeed in effecting any remedy or in arresting to any great measure the inflationary trendthat is taking place today, particularly inrelation to essential commodities. First of all,the people of Australia denied the Commonwealth Government power to control prices. It is up to the Commonwealth to control prices, particularly in relation to essential items; it cannot hope for anything to be done by the States, because the States are not in a position to do anything. I gave honourable senators the example that when I was attempting to do something the adjoining State was decontrolling the price of commodities and the result was that those commodities went over the border. The public of Queensland were complaining that they could not get the goods they wanted. These goods could be sold in the New South Wales market at any price. We can rule out, as far as I am concerned, the idea that the States are able to control prices. The 6 individual States cannot control prices successfully and effectively because of the system under which we live today and because of our constitutional rights in connection with trade. 
What is the position? Let us look at the balance sheets that are published in the newspapers. Let us look at the profits of Myer Emporium and the profits of David Jones Ltd and the profits of many of these companies and we will see - a man with one eye could see - that the margin between the wholesale price and the retail price is far too high. The public is being bled. 
 No doubt. I would like  to  see some of it, not for me personally but for my Party. I have too much  as it is.  I got  it  from the oil companies. 
Yes. Well, he had to put some into the tax office too, did he not? What I have outlined has been my experience in relation to price control, and I thought I would give the Senate the benefit of that experience with these few words. No-one tried harder than I did to give the public a go. lt is utterly impossible for the States to do anything about controlling prices. Unless the Commonwealth assumed the power or was given the power to control prices, I do not think any joint committee that we set up would be in the race of doing so. What power does the Commonwealth have to force these big retail companies to reduce their margins, if it is believed that their margins, which can vary so much, are too high? Some months ago 1 bought a hat. 
To put on my head, of course. What does the honourable senator wear his for? It would not be to keep in his brains. I bought a hat to which someone in a football club or some other club took a liking and took it from me, in spite of the fact that  1  had my name in it.  1  suppose that person prizes that hat now because he can say: 'I have got Gair's hat'. I replaced it with an identical hat which cost $1 more in one shop than I paid for the original hat in another shop. What is the explanation for that? 
I do not think either of those shops would be paying rent. We see many of these anomalies. The manufacturers of clothing in Queensland used to complain bitterly about price control when we were in charge because we tried to be effective. But when the Government was destroyed by the Queensland Central Executive of the Australian Labor Party and price control was thrown overboard, the manufacturers used to say to me in the street: 'I wish you were back in power and that you had some measure of price control. We are not in the race in trying to compete with southern manufacturers, and we just cannot go along. We were doing better with some measure of price control and a reasonable margin, but, of course, the southerners have their own stores in all the cities and they determine what margin is to be placed on the goods in the retail  stores'. 
Personally I think that this measure is a bit of window dressing. I cannot believe that those who are responsible for it are serious. I cannot believe that they genuinely hope to achieve anything. I cannot believe that they expect me and other honourable senators to accept this proposition enthusiastically because, as thinking people, we know that without complete power as the centre of government we are not in the race in controlling prices. In any case, if we did have the power, in the light of my experience, I would counsel the Government not to make the mistake that was made during the war years of endeavouring to control the price of luxury goods. Of what concern would it be to me or to other honourable senators if a wealthy lady walked into a store and paid an exhorbitant price for a pair of fashion shoes which were hand made and imported from Italy or some other country which manufacturers stylish shoes? What concern would it be of mine or other honourable senators if some extravagant woman went into a hat shop and paid a big price for a hat? 
I tried to control the price of clothing for men, women and children. I tried to control the price of men's working clothes and working boots, school children's clothing and foodstuffs. But I was involved in a national crisis when I tried to control the price of butter. We refused to increase the price of butter, and because we did so we had a confrontation with the Butter Equalisation Board or some other federal set-up which claimed that it, not the Prices Commission, had the right to determine the price of butter. But let me come now to attempts to control the price of petrol. A certain officer in South Australia is supposed to determine the price of petrol. He must have agreed to and approved without documentation an increase in the price of petrol because there is no way in the world that he could have seen any documents. The oil companies could not produce landed costs of petrol brought into Australia, nor could they show any other evidence of a warrant for an increased price. The result was that the companies threatened to withhold standard grade petrol from Queensland. I had no difficulty getting supplies from another centre. I had the tankers all set up and, I repeat, the only thing that I did not have was accommodation - and one cannot hold a tanker at a wharf for any length of time without incurring great expense. 
The oil companies then got to work and saw to it that I was not going to interfere with their holiday any longer. They saw to it that the split came in the Labor Party - and I was turned out, turfed out. I will produce the list of charges that were levelled against me. I also seriously offended the Labor Party in that I dared to legislate for the appointment of an appeal board at a university, and I was charged with destroying the academic freedom of the university - yet nobody could tell me what academic freedom meant. I told a leading member of the Party that I would give the Party £20 if he could spell academic - and I think I would have won that bet. 
No. Price control is not the only way of (fighting inflation. If this Government thinks it is going to confuse the people of Australia by this measure and convey to them that it is trying to correct inflation by setting up a joint parliamentary committee to deal with prices when it has no earthly power to do anything in connection with the control of prices, it is wrong. The committee could make investigations, it might take evidence - but having got it, can it say to Kenneth Myer: 'We think your margins are too high, cut them down'? Of course, it cannot say that to him or to Lloyd Jones or anyone else. Let us be fair dinkum. Do not hoodwink the people. If the Government thinks it can convince them that it is in this way wrestling with inflation in a competent and efficient manner, it is making a mistake. The people want something more tangible, real and effective, and something that would give better results than this proposed committee could ever hope to achieve. In my policy speech at the last election I said - and I say it again - that the greatest problem which this Government or any other government could have at present is racing inflation. It is eroding the value of the dollar. I feel that the benefits under the legislation providing for increased social services payments, which I commend and applaud, have already been eroded by half, because every day that one picks up a newspaper one reads that another 100 grocery items have increased by lc or 2c each. And so it goes on. Do not tell me that rents and accommodation charges have not increased. They have, of course. 
When Government senators were in opposition, they complained about inflation under the previous Government, and in fact it had increased by a few points over the years. It ha? increased at a faster rate than that since the December election and I feel that what the people want from this Government is positive action to correct this racing inflation. Something must be done. What is the position? I know what it is in Queensland - and it would be the same in other States. People who have surplus money today are putting it into real estate. They are not putting it into the banks. They realise that if they put it into the banks it will depreciate below its real value or below its value at the present time. If they put it into real estate then at least their asset is there and will continue to be there and probably will be worth more when they want to resell it. 
ls that not a warning and ought it not be a warning to a government? It is all right to go along in a flamboyant way and to do these things with great gusto and demonstration and allow the things that matter most to go unnoticed or unattended. 1 would be the first to support this measure if I thought it could be of some value. But this is valueless. If I were permitted to use a favourite expression of mine - and some honourable senators have heard it - that is just the value of it. It is neither use nor ornament. The Committee will sit, it will waste a lot of time, it will hear a lot of evidence - and having got that evidence, what is it going to do? Let someone tell me what the Government proposes to do. 
It has no power to do it. The States are powerless in this regard too. When the 6 States were trying to control prices, each had a different attitude. I recall that at one of our initial meetings in Melbourne this man McCarthy was there giving us some idea of administration of prices.  Sir Thomas  Playford was there representing South Australia and we were going through a tremendously long list of goods and items. As we came to one item, I would say: 'I move decontrol of that; that commodity is being made in every State of the Commonwealth and there is ample and adequate competition to ensure effective control'. One group of items that we did decontrol was condiments: black sauces, tomato sauces and that sort of thing. 
Only the slow ones. We wiped out control of those items; it was my resolution and it was unanimously agreed to. The old politician came back after lunch and wanted it recommitted. He said: 'During lunch I thought about it. You know, a lot of working people take tomato sauce on their lunches and if you decontrol this item it might go up in price.' Could anyone hear anything so feeble as that? 
That was  Sir Thomas  Playford. He was playing politics instead of grasping the real issue involved. I think honourable senators would agree with me that to suggest continuing price control of condiments would be a little unwise. In Brisbane I think, about  10  firms made condiments. Small factories are manufacturing tomato sauce. We produce good tomatoes in Queensland. Hot house tomatoes from Bowen are beautiful. They make good tomato sauce - the best in Australia. 
I thought that those points would give honourable senators some idea of the difficulty involved. It concerns not only the rag trade or the shoe trade. It concerns everything, even the bigger articles. The control of land sales was the greatest farce in history. We tried to exercise control. We had an excellent commissioner of prices. He was a qualified cost accountant and a qualified secretary. He had all the necessary qualifications and was a scrupulously honest and very exacting gentleman. He enforced land sales control as well as any human could. But one did not have to witness that process for very long to realise that when  Mr A  wanted the property of  Mr B  so badly that he was prepared to pay the price that  Mr B  asked, the sale would go through. All the papers would be filled out to show that the property was sold at the price determined by the commissioner. But what happened after that? Money changed hands on the black market. 
Let me give this warning to honourable senators: When you set out to protect the members of the public, in many cases you do not get a lot of thanks for it because they like to do it their way. If they have to pay a black market price to get what they want, they are satisfied. When I endeavoured to control the price of butter my telephone never stopped ringing because there was a shortage of butter. It was transported over the border. The housewives, whom I was trying to protect from paying a further increase in the price of butter telephoned me and abused me. They said: 'I bet that your refrigerator is full of butter. We cannot get any'. That was the thanks I received for trying to protect them. The position continues in that way. If people want something and are prepared to pay for it, they will get it in spite of whatever legislation or power is introduced. 
I could tell honourable senators of many incidents from the past. One of the best involved the butcher shops.  Mr Power  was the Minister responsible for the matter in Queensland at that time. He received many complaints from members of the public that butchers were short weighing them and that they were being over charged. We had a good system for meat sales in Queensland at that time. The meat was graded and branded. The first class meat bore a blue mark. People who wanted good meat and who were prepared to pay for it knew what they were receiving. There was a second grade, and so on down the scale.  Mr Power  decided to introduce a docket system in the butcher shops. With modern weighing scales the butcher has the advantage of having the total weight and amount of money to be charged determined for him. The scales would register quantities of meat and show the amount to be charged. But that was not good enough. The butchers did not like the docket system. 
One evening, just after dinner, a master butcher called at my home. He wanted to talk to me and I asked him in. He had a bundle of docket butts. He said to me: 'If you had time to go through these, you would find that in most cases there has been an error in the totalling'. I said: 'Yes, and I suppose that if I had time to go through them I would find that the errors in most cases were in your favour and not in the public's favour'. He said: You would find some where the public had benefited'. I said: 'What excuse can you offer when you have the scales to aid you?' He said: Some of these butcher shops do not have these scales. They are a pretty costly piece of equipment'. I said: 'What is wrong with the docket system? If you go into David Jones store and buy a shirt, a couple of ties and a pair of socks, you received an itemised docket. What is wrong with the principle so far as butchers are concerned? He said: 'Generally, counter hands in butcher shops have not received very much education. They have left school early and they experience difficulty in making out a docket and adding it up'. I said: Is that so? Then tell me how they did the addition in their heads before the docket system was introduced.' Apparently they could do mental arithmetic but they were no good at doing arithmetic on paper. It was a case of any excuse being better than none. 
They are only some of the difficulties that are encountered when an endeavour is made to control prices. The housewives beat us on the docket system. They would go to the same butcher and build up a friendly relationship. They did not want him to make out a docket. They would say: 'Do not bother, butcher. We do not want a docket'. He would not give them a docket, even though he ran the risk of being prosecuted for not doing so. If they received dockets, the housewives would not examine them and the floor of the butcher shop would be littered with them. They would throw them down immediately they received them. But that does not remove the responsibility from the Government to make some greater effort in this field. Price control is not the only method of curbing this rapidly growing inflation that we are experiencing at the present time and which is eroding the value of the dollar. Wage increases inevitably increase prices. It cannot be allowed to continue. 
I repeat what I said in my policy speech during the last federal election campaign: The greatest problem that the incoming government faces in the control of the affairs of Australia is to correct inflation. If the Government can do that it will correct many of the anomalies, disadvantages and bad effects that we are suffering today. The amendment deals with the appointment of an additional member to the proposed committee on prices. I think that the Country Party has a right to have a representative on the committee and I support the amendment. But for the reasons that I have given, I think that the Government is only belting the air. I think that it has set out deliberately to pull the wool over the eyes of the public. The committee has been presented as an attempt to arrest inflation and price increases. In fact, the Government knows that the proposed committee can do nothing as such because it has no legal power to cause people to reduce their prices or margins. It has no power to take any action to reduce the price to the consumer. 
 Mr President,  it is with a very deep sense of sorrow that I rise to support the motion of condolence moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  Arthur Fadden and I were friends for more than 40 years. I knew him before he was elected to the State Parliament on 11th June 1932, on which day I too was elected to the State Parliament, and while we were there we consolidated the acquaintenance that had existed between us up till then and we became good friends. He was making his mark in the Opposition in the State Parliament particularly on matters of finance. In budget debates and such like he would lead for the Opposition.1 In 1935 he was defeated after having changed from one electorate to another. Twelve months or so later  Sir Lyttleton  Groom died, he having been  Speaker  of the House of Representatives and a member of the Nationalist Party, the United Australia Party, or whatever title he and his colleagues were carrying at the time. But that did not' prevent Artie Fadden winning the Darling Downs seat as the Country Parry candidate and-Tie told very many amusing stories about his campaigning in that election.  His  great "aid at  that time was Ted Maher, who was Leader-' of the Opposition in the State Parliament. - 
Subsequently I became Premier arid Treasurer and Arthur Fadden and I used to meet periodically at Loan Council meetings and Premiers Conferences, and I can, assure you,  Mr President,  that our relationship then was not always harmonious. Neither pf us barred any holds and we fought very vigorously, T as Premier and Treasurer seeking' to get as much as I could from the Commonwealth pool and Artie resisting my efforts to the best of his ability on behalf of the Commonwealth. But our differences of opinion and :our- fights were always concluded by Artie giving me a hearty slap on the back and saying: 'You little B, come and have a drink'. We - would have a drink and talk over things from a State point of view. We would find that we did not disagree very materially on major problems. That went on for a number of years.'  
I recollect very clearly having a post mortem on our Loan Council meetings and our fights and the subsequent Press reports that were issued. The Federal Treasurer would be reported as saying one thing and the State Premier would be reported as having said something different. I found a weakness in his armour. In one of my Press statements I referred to him as an 'ex-Queenslander'. That cut him to the quick. He said: 'I do not care what you say about me, but please do not refer to me again as an ex-Queenslander'.  His  heart was in the State of his birth. He had grown up in the north - not under rich circumstances.  His  father was a police officer. He had no university training and referred to the school which he attended in the country town of Walkerston outside Mackay as the Walkerston University'. He started employment as a billy boy or in some like capacity in a  sugar  mill. He obtained employment in the Mackay City Council and became the Town Clerk. He studied accountancy and entered into partnership as an accountant with a man,I think, named Sutton in Townsville. He was a. very competent, conscientious and dedicated professional man in the field of accountancy and he built up a very big practice. 
Artie Fadden was liked by all people who were privileged to know him. It is true that he was a great storyteller. He had a fund of stories which he used to retail from time to time. To his credit, let me say this as one who knewhim intimately: With all his geniality and his natural aim to please - for he never trailedhiscoat, looking for trouble - if an issue arose he never ducked it. He was prepared to make a stand on matters on which he had conviction and in which he believed. If he was attacked in clubs or anywhere else about his 'little budget' or anything else, he stood his ground. He never ran away, made excusesor blamed the Prime Minister or anyone else. He took the full responsibility. On the occasion of the introduction of his 'little budget', someone said to him: 'How are you going, Artie?' He replied: 'You should know. I sent out invitations for a party recently and I conducted it in a telephone box'. He implied that his friends were so few. He had a great sense of humour. He had an indispensable requirement for greatness, particularly in public life. He had the great fortune of having a good mate in life in Lady Fadden. She was an admirable lady and a devoted wife and mother. The children all idolised their father and he idolised them. As a family unit, they were an inspiration. I was privileged to visit their home on many occasions. The devotion, the esteem and the mutual respect that were evident in that home were indeed pleasing and gratifying and, I say again, an inspiration. That family was probably the major contributing factor to the success of Artie Fadden in public life. He said to me more than once: 'I do not care who likes me or who dislikes me publicly. At least I know that when I go home I will be well received and that my family at least will support me. That is all that I am damn well concerned about.' That was his attitude. 
Artie Fadden was a human man. He understood men, particularly working class men. I have been in cities and towns in North Queensland when he has been present also. I have seen for myself the respect that working class men have shown him and the devotion and admiration that they had for him. In his day, Artie had been one of the boys. He had played football. Indeed, he was the first secretary of the North Queensland Rugby League. He was a boxer also. He told some funny stories about occasions when he had been pitted against some 'blow-in' from the south who had been a professional fighter and he had been given a hiding. He told stories about the days when he played with the black minstrels who were country people entertaining themselves in their own simple decent way. He participated in every phase of life in the community in which he lived. He contributed something. He gave friendship and looked for it. I am satisfied that Artie Fadden will be judged very mercifully and with much advantage to himself for the amount of friendship that he has given to other people, particularly those in the poorer sections of the community, for the understanding that he has given to people who sought advice of a professional character from him but could not afford to pay for that advice, and for his charity to very many worthy causes, through companies in which he was interested, as well as directly from his own pocket. The long term served by Artie Fadden in this Parliament was of advantage to this country which is the poorer because of his passing. 

 Senator MAUNSELL (Queensland)I wish to support the motion before the Senate. I was not actually associated with  Sir Arthur  Fadden, as  Senator Gair  was, in the period when he was a member of this Parliament. As a matter of fact, apart from meetings of the. Australian Country Party in Queensland, I did not have a great deal to do with  Sir Arthur  until the last few years and particularly since I have lived in Townsville where  Sir Arthur  Fadden had his business.  Sir Arthur  still visited Townsville for a few days every month. Fortunately, he stayed at my neighbour's house and I was able to see him quite often. It was always a pleasure to listen to his new jokes and to the old jokes. I can recall one dinner party that we had a few months ago at which  Sir Arthur  started telling jokes at 8 o'clock and at midnight he was still going. I had not heard any of those jokes before, and I have heard plenty of jokes in my time. The jokes were concerned mainly with his early days in Townsville. 

 Sir Arthur was a particular friend to me from the time I was elected to the Senate.  His  advice was always sound. It was not only the soundness of his advice but also the way in which he delivered it which meant that one seldom forgot that advice. 1 remember what he said to me at a party that was held in Brisbane on the night when my election to the Senate was declared. I think it was about 2 o'clock in the morning and  Sir Arthur  was on one side of me and Ted Maher on the other, both giving me advice. Artie said to me: 'Do you know anything about music, lad?' I said: 'I learnt music when I was a youngster. I have played everything from a mouth organ to a violin, but not very well'. He said: 'When you go to Canberra there are 2 notes which you have to remember - C sharp and B natural'. I have remembered that ever since. It certainly was very sound advice. On behalf of the Country Party in Queensland, of which he was a great stalwart, I extend our deepest sympathy to Lady Fadden and the members of his family. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it true that Thai officers have trained at the Australian Staff College since 1967? Is it true, as reported, that further admissions of Thais to the College have been refused on the ground that 'accommodation is inadequate'? If so, does this indicate a further step by the present Government to cast off Australia's traditional friends, and is it a move to destroy the South East Asia Treaty Organisation? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs any information for me in reply to the question that I asked him yesterday regarding the training of Thai officers in Australia? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for the Australian Capital Territory aware that a so-called women's embassy calling for support for abortion reform was set up yesterday on the lawns opposite Parliament House? ls the Minister further aware that the persons responsible for this eyesore say that the tent will remain in its present position until 10th May? Does the Minister agree that this action contravenes an existing Australian Capital Territory Ordinance? If so. will he indicate the steps, if any, which he proposes to take to ensure that the present law is obeyed and the tent is removed? 
 Mr Acting Deputy President- 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  I tell you at the outset that these amateur interjectors who are likely to come in and create a bit of noise in the course of my limited remarks, would be well advised to keep out, as anyone who knows me would agree. I rise readily,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  to support this resolution. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Byrne)  -  Senator Poyser,  I call you to order. 
I want to commend  Senator Hannan  for having given notice of this resolution and for having spoken to it in such an excellent manner. I think , the time  is  appropriate for public attention to be drawn to the Government's attitude and to its sympathy for the communists of North Vietnam at this time when the Vietcong and the North Vietnam Communists have failed even to observe the terms of the agreement for a cease fire. They have come here with blood still on their hands as a result of killing Australian soldiers who were in Vietnam supporting the South Vietnamese to hold their country and to defend themselves from the intrusion and the invasion by communists from North Vietnam. Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner we heard a speech from  Senator Wheeldon.  If it is any satisfaction to him I must confess that I had looked forward to my dinner, having had a light lunch, but he created such a state of nausea in my outfit that I was not able to eat anything. We were given the usual treatment from  Senator Wheeldon  of a lot of noise but no substance, a lot of noise and no logic. He went to Hanoi, undoubtedly at the request and at the expense of the communist outfit in North Vietnam. He told us about the horrors of war - those inescapable, indispensable effects of bombing. Does he think - he attempted to create this impression in the minds of the people listening to him today - that all the war took place in North Vietnam, that all the casualties were in North Vietnam, and that the only place where there was any destruction was North Vietnam? Jack Kane and I -  Senator Kane  andI-- 
It does not make any difference. We went to Vietnam and were there for 10 days. 
Yes, we went as soldiers. We were in the advance army of parliamentarians. I did not see the honourable senator there. 
No. John Curtin sent them to the islands north of Queensland at 18 years of age. Nephews of mine were called up at 18 years of age. You talk about 20-year- old kids. In the last war 18-year olds were called up and were dispatched to Milne Bay and other theatres of war with very little training. (Government senators interjecting) 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! Members of the Government are constantly interjecting. There is a running current of interjections.I ask honourable senators to desist. 
-I will not discuss at any length the question of why we were involved in the Vietnam war. The fact remains that no one has ever been able to confirm or prove that South Vietnam invaded or attempted to invade North Vietnam. North Vietnam was the aggressor. A democratically elected government of the United States of America, which has always been condemned, went to the aid-- 
Be quiet, you. Look after your discount store. The Government of the United States went to aid that country against the onslaught of the communists who were assisted by Red China and Russia. Yet these people of the Australian Labor Party who are supposed to be democrats and whoare allegedly anti-communist-- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Byrne)  - Order! I have drawn  Senator Poyser's  attention to the fact that there has been a constant stream of interjections, particularly from the honourable senator. He is persisting in interjecting with some sort of slogan.I would ask the honourable senator to desist, otherwise he might invite the anger of the Chair. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  -  Senator Willesee,I  note your observations. On two or three ocasions while you were speaking I called for silence, particularly from members of the Democratic Labor Party. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
The interjections on that occasion were not as persistent, continuous or repetitive as they have been while  Senator Gair  has been speaking. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - 
Come to your point of order please,  Senator. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - 
Would you mind stating your point of order. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - 
Are you speaking to  Senator Willesee's  point of order? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order!  Senator Poyser,  will you kindly resume your seat.  Senator Willesee  rose to a point of order. He stated his point of order and I indicated the attitude of the Chair. 1 think that closes the debate on the point of order. If you wish to rise to another point of order that is your right, but you cannot take the same point of order. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - 
Excuse me,  Senator Kane. Senator Poyser,  are you rising to another point of order? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTThen you are out of order. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - 
You said you were not rising to another point of order. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Poyser, I have heard your point of order. Will you kindly resume your seat.  Senator Willesee  rose to a point of order. Nobody else had risen to that point of order and 1 gave my decision on it. That closes the matter because I have given my ruling on it. 1 call  Senator Gair. 
In this regrettable war none of us can take up the stand that all the casualties, all the damage and all the bomb.ng took place in the North. When I was so rudely interrupted 1 was about to »ay that when  Senator Kane  and I were in South Vietnam and when we went out each day into the theatres of war we saw the effects of the raids of the Vietcong guerrillas. We saw how peasants had been robbed and raped and how they were left for dead. We saw the work of the guerrillas from North Vietnam. We visited hospitals in South Vietnam. 
I have been left with an unpleasant and indelibly sad impression of what I saw there. I saw men, women and children without arms and without legs. In hospitals in South Vietnam I saw in single beds 2 patients who had lost limbs, sight and were suffereing from injuries. Yet our friends opposite who are so ardently supporting the corns all the time wherever they are tell us that all the casualties were in North Vietnam. Were not the people in the South entitled to defend themselves. The North Vietnamese had the help of the Red Chinese and the Russians, but apparently we should have just surrendered to the corns at all times and adopted Australian Labor Party policy. The United States of America and Australia later came to the aid of South Vietnam. They went to the aid of South Vietnam to save this little country from being overrun by the communists. Had we not gone in there the position in South-East Asia would have been infinitely worse than it is today. Anyone who has studied this issue will know that the old domino theory was real. Just prior to his death General Eisenhower said: 'lt is as sure as day follows night'. The guerrillas were in Cambodia. Of course they were. Our friends,  Senator Bishop  and  Mr Bryant,  saw them entering Cambodia. So affected were they by the communist invasion of Cambodia that they sent to all of us lengthy and costly cables calling for arms. 
Does the honourable senator deny that  Mr Bryant  sent telegrams. 
Of course, he does not. The honourable senator is standing behind  Mr Bryant  because he has regard for some matters concerning himself. 
I received  Mr Bryant's  telegram. 
Do you repudiate that  Mr Bryant,  who is now a Minister, sent the lengthy telegram calling for arms. 
 Senator Bishop  will not hurt me. 
I may speak until 8.35 p.m. I have been robbed of another minute. The major part of this matter of urgency seeks to express disgust at a senior Minister of the Government entertaining these people who have the audacity and impudence to visit this country, no doubt at the invitation of somebody. Someone has said that they were invited privately. If they were invited privately, why is the Government put to the expense of entertaining them? Furthermore, are we not entitled to register a protest, having regard to the fact that more than 400 Australian men were killed in action in the Vietnam war and hundreds more were wounded and maimed in the service of this country? Hundreds of Australian familes were bereaved. Loved husbands, sons and brothers lost their lives in Vietnam. Yet, we find this new Labor Government welcoming these people and inviting them to join us, although they have failed to observe the terms of the ceasefire. Indeed, their record is rotten. They could not observe a 2-day truce in the course of this war. 
Yes. They are crawling for financial aid. Why do they not get it from Red China and Russia, which are their allies? The visit of this delegation follows, after an interval of only a few months, the visit by a group of alleged unionists who came to this country from North Vietnam. They were invited here and we saw them being entertained. We saw them being embraced and actually kissed by leaders of unions. They were passionately kissed as brothers. We saw Jack Devereaux whom I know more intimately than does any other honourable senator - he is the top man of the Amalgamated Engineering Union-- 
Yes, he is a good trade unionist. He was the best anti-com grouper that we had in Queensland, when he was there. And let him deny that he was. When the Queensland State Government, of which I was a member, had on its hands a strike-- 
. . . at the Ipswich workshops-- 
. . . and when my Premier said to me-- 
It is true and he cannot deny it. 
At that time he would not have been known in the Labor movement. 
There was a strike on,  Mr President-- 
Yes. 
I was saying-- 
I will detain the Senate for only a few moments. As the Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill is a money Bill I am permitted to speak on any subject. I have in my possession 21 statutory declarations signed last Sunday by certain Sydney residents. These statutory declarations deal mainly with the dawn raids which took place on the homes of Croatian people on 1st April 1973. I had the text of these declarations printed in a composite document. So that these declarations can be examined by other honourable senators. I will seek leave to table the 21 declarations and the composite document containing the text of each declaration. This action is in compliance with a request made this afternoon by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  When  Senator McManus  was speaking this afternoon he indicated that he had documents in connection with this matter and  Senator Murphy  said that he would be pleased if  Senator McManus  would let him have the documents. My Party is complying with his request and I seek leave to table the statutory declarations and the composite document containing the text of each declaration. 
(5.37&gt;- I want to inform the Senate that as far as the Australian Democratic Labor Party is concerned a free vote will be exercised by the members of that Party on this issue. For myself, I have no desire to cast a silent vote on this always controversial question. No subject matter has been discussed for a greater length of time than the question of the abolition of capital punishment. Queensland, which is the State that I represent in the Senate, was  the first State to abolish capital punishment back in  1922.  As a young man at that time, doubtless I accepted that decision as being a justifiable one. 
But I am required to confess that with the passing of the years and with the responsibility of being a member of a government and Premier and Chief Secretary of State, the many cases of planned, premeditated and cold blooded murder that came under my notice caused me to change my attitude on this question.  1  felt the need for the restoration of capital punishment, not with a desire for vengeance in my mind but with a desire to provide for proper retribution and to indicate to the public generally, to the citizens of our society, that they have a responsibility to observe the code by which they live. We are required to teach them their requirements to observe the law of the land and not to take into their own hands matters as serious as the taking of life. 
Arguments have been used that the provision of capital punishment on the statute books of any State is not a deterrent to murder. To a great degree that is true but, nevertheless, there is evidence that it is a deterrent in some cases. From memory I know of  2  cases in Queensland where the perpetrators of a murder brought their victims over the border from New South Wales into Queensland at a time when New South Wales had not abolished capital punishment. They murdered their victims in Queensland and were arrested and dealt with in that State. They admitted that they brought their victims into Queensland because there was no capital punishment in that State. So there are exceptions to the statement that capital punishment is not a deterrent.  1  am conscious of the fact that there are some mentally sick people who perform some ghastly, horrifying crimes, such as sex crimes particularly on young females as young as  18  months old. I am prepared to concede that those people are sick. In those cases I would not exercise the right to use capital punishment, but  I  would see that those people were not given freedom to perpetrate a second offence of that type. I would see that they were confined to a hospital for the insane and kept there. I would use capital punishment sparingly and only in cases of treason, the murder of a policeman or a prison warder and cold blooded premeditated murder. In Queensland a few years ago there was a case where a prison warder, who had a reputation for being a kindly, generous and tolerant man, was sitting at a desk and a prisoner, with no trace of any insanity except criminality and with no regard for the life of others, smashed down the prison warder  with  an iron bar. He murdered him and robbed a woman of a husband and a large family of its father.  I  do not think that case calls for any great mercy. 
Another case is very vivid in my mind. A man  barbered  one of the leading hotels in Cairns, north Queensland. All honourable senators know what the term  'barbered'  means: He went through the hotel and robbed it during the day. Amongst the things that he stole from the hotel was an all lines railway pass, the property of one of the guests of the hotel, a commercial traveller. Having got this pass this man booked himself on the southern mail train equipped with an iron bar. When the train was proceeding during the early hours of the morning he went through it, when the occupants of the sleeping berths were dead to the world in sleep, and he struck with intent to rob and kill. He killed  3  men and left the conductor of the train, who heard the disturbance, in a deplorable state for many years. He was nothing more than a cabbage. He had no power of recognition of his dear ones or his friends or relatives. As I say, he lived in that state for many years. The man who committed the crime jumped the train and succeeded in evading the police for some time, until he was apprehended in New South Wales masquerading as a female. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What is the name and address of the firm of Sydney solicitors which has acted for the firm or firms whichhave supplied 'Bally' poker machines to clubs in New South Wales. 
When the debate on the Death Penalty Abolition Bill 1973 was adjourned last Thursday evening. I was about to say that it is very wise for any government to retain capital punishment on its statute books. I repeat what I said that evening: Capital punishment should be administered sparingly. But in cases of premeditated, cold blooded murder I believe that capital punishment is justified. 
As the honourable senator should know, this is quite a legal matter. I said in the course of my remarks that some murders are committed by people who suffer badly from mental sickness. We read almost daily of horrifying and shocking cases of murder with a sex base that are perpetrated on children of tender years. I believe that in cases in which it is the opinion of psychiatrists that the perpetrator of the dirty deed was mentally sick, such people should be confined to and treated in an institution, not for any specific period, but until they are certified as being cured. If no certificate to that effect can be obtained, they should be kept there and not given an opportunity to repeat such a crime. There are many types of murders. Therefore, I think that there should be some degree of murder. I instance to honourable senators the case of 2 men who have an argument in an hotel bar or on a street. One may strike the other, knock him down and that person may die from a fractured skull or from some other cause. That would be manslaughter. I do not think that murder would be the intent. I feel that a classification of degrees of murder would simplify things a great deal. 
There are too many people today who place very little value on human life, lt is not because they are mentally sick but because they are undisciplined mentally and physically. They believe that if someone stands in their way of getting something to which they are not legally entitled they can just shoot him down. An increasing number of breaking and entering crimes are being perpetrated throughout Australia today. In most cases persons breaking into and entering a home, business, bank or any other premises are equipped with guns to shoot down anyone who may impede the carrying out of their act of robbery.  I  think that those cases definitely should attract the death penalty because there is an intent to murder, not only one person but many. I do not think that people committing such a crime are entitled to any consideration. Many people would cry for the perpetrators of such a crime but they appear to have very little sympathy for the relatives and friends of the unfortunate person who was murdered. 
As I said at the outset of my speech, I do not think that there is any subject matter that has been debated for so many years without the public being able to make up their minds about what they want. There is a definite tendency today, both in the United States and in the United Kingdom, for a reversion to capital punishment because of the increase in crime and because so many people in the community pay so little regard to human life. 
I can recall many cases in which murderers planned their deeds and went out to murder somebody for the sake of a few hundred dollars. One case involved a  Mrs Stephens  and her husband who conducted a surburban theatre. One Saturday night, after they had closed up and left for their home they drove into the garage, the doors of which were open - old fashioned garage doors, not modern garage doors - and behind each door was a fellow armed with a revolver. The husband drove the car in and parked it properly and his wife got out carrying an ordinary canvas banking bag containing the takings for the night. A fellow grabbed at the bag, the lady resisted, and he simply drew his revolver and shot her dead in her own backyard. Those fellows went there with a deliberate plan to steal that money and, in case there was any resistance, they were equipped to kill any person who stood in their way. There was no doubt about their guilt, because when the husband pursued them down the street they stood and fired at him. 
Such people are not entitled to any consideration or to any room in our society. When it is deliberate, planned, premeditated, coldblooded murder there is no case for mercy. That is my attitude. It is based principally on the experience I have had in government and information 1 have had at my disposal about some of these people. If people are to live in this society they must recognise the laws of the land and recognise that they have an obligation to their fellow man. Otherwise, they are not entitled to any consideration from the society in which they live. A good deal can be said for and against this proposition, I know. But the fact remains that we ought to keep in our statutes the provision for capital punishment. I think it is wise to have it there and to use it when it is considered necessary and the case justifies such an extreme process. I do not like the hanging method of capital punishment. I think consideration could be given to an alternative means of capital punishment. 
Sitting suspended from  5.44  to  8  p.m. 
 I present the following petition from 66 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That Australian citizens place great value on the sanctity of human life and the physical, mental and social welfare of mothers and children. 
That we are deeply concerned to preserve throughout Australia the law's protection of human life from the moment of conception. 
That if, as some argue, the unborn child at the time abortions are performed does not constitute human life, then justice and reason demand that anyone arguing thus has the onus of proof upon him and that this onus has not been discharged. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable House should not extend the laws governing abortion and will uphold the right to life of the unborn child. And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Petitions in identical terms were presented by  Senator Drake-Rrocknian  (3).  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson and  Senator Mulvihill. 
Petitions received. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: Is he aware that last Saturday represented the second anniversary of the tabling of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare relating to mentally and physically handicapped persons in Australia? Is the Minister in a position to state what plans the Government has for the implementation of any of the 85 recommendations contained in the report? Have any of the recommendations already been implemented? Is it not a fact that the Prime Minister has committed his Party to the implementation of all the recommendations? 
No.  Mr President,  pursuant to my contingent notice of motion, 1 move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent  Senator Gair  moving a motion relating to the order of business on the Notice Paper. 
T he  PRESIDENT- Senator Gair  has moved the contingent notice of motion standing in his name. Do you wish to address the Chair further on your motion,  Senator Gair? 
1 take this course,  Mr President,  really to suit the convenience of the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Murphy,  who I learn from the Press is to leave Australia in a few days to go to The Hague. 
No, 1 am not saying that. I do so out of consideration for  Senator Murphy,  in my characteristic solicitous manner. I am raising this question now so that we can proceed with the debate on the motion of which 1 gave notice yesterday. 
To put things in order, I now move: 
That intervening business be postponed until after consideration of General- Business, notice of motion No. 10, relating to the appointment of a select committee on the civil rights of migrant Australians. 
Yes. 1 move: 
That  so  much  of the  Standing Orders be suspended  as  would prevent  Senator Gair  moving a motion relating to the  order of business on  the  notice paper. 
Question put. 
1 move: 
That intervening business be postponed until after consideration of general business, notice of motion No. 10, relating to the appointment of a select committee on civil rights of migrant Australians. 
J do not expect that honourable senators would want me to read .he motion as I read it verbatim yesterday. It is very lengthy and reading it would take up the time of the Senate. 
The motion is No. 10. 
-I seek leave to amend the text of my motion which reads as follows: 
That a Select Committee of the Senate be appointed to inquire into and report upon the following matters: 
whether the civil rights of migrant Australians and, in particular, members of the Croatian community, have been infringed by: 
the unwarranted invasion of premises; 
the unwarranted seizure of documents or property; 
the unwarranted deprivation of liberty, privacy or good reputation; and, if so, what review or amendment of the law or administrative or judicial procedures is necessary or desirable; 
whether there has been or is intimidation or undue pressure applied to members of Australian migrant communities and, in particular, to members of the Australian Croatian community, Slovenian community, Macedonian community, Montenegran community and the Ukrainian community at the instance or in the interests of the Yugoslav Government or any other Government, and, in particular, whether any members of the Secret Police of another country have applied such intimidation or undue pressure or otherwise have been active among  members  of the migrant communities in Australia; 
the circumstances surrounding and relevant to the Attorney-General's actions in relation to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization in March 1973; and 
the problems and perils created for members of the Australian migrant community by the concept of dual nationality and appropriate measures which may be taken to eliminate them. 
That the Committee consist of seven Senators, three to be nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate and four other Senators; one to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, one to be nominated by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, one to be nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the Senate and one Independent  Senator to  be nominated by the Independent Senators. 
That the Committee proceed to the dispatch of business notwithstanding that all members have not been duly nominated and appointed and notwithstanding any vacancy. 
That the  Chairman  of the Committee be appointed by and from the members of the Committee. 
That the  Chairman  of the Committee may, from time to time, appoint another member of the Committee to be the Deputy-Chairman of the Committee, and that the member so appointed act as  Chairman  of the Committee at any time when there is no  Chairman  or the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the Committee. 
That, in the event of an equality of voting, the  Chairman,  or the Deputy-Chairman when acting as  Chairman,  shall have a casting vote. 
That the presence of three members of the Committee shall be necessary to constitute a meeting of the Committee for the exercise of its powers. 
That the Committee have power to send for and examine persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, to sit in public or in private, notwithstanding any prorogation of the Parliament, and have leave to report from time to time its proceedings and the evidence taken and such interim recommendations it may deem fit. 
That members of the public and representatives of the news media may attend and report any public session of the Committee unless the Committee otherwise orders. 
That the Committee be empowered to print from day to day such papers and evidence as may be ordered by it. A daily Hansard shall be published of such proceedings of the Committee as take place in public. 
That the Senate authorises the televising of public hearings of the Committee, at the discretion of the Committee, and under such rules as the Senate may adopt. 
That the Committee shall ensure that the operational methods of law enforcement agencies are protected from disclosure where that would be against the public interest. 
That the Committee shall observe the following rules for the protection of witnesses: 
witnesses shall be entitled to written particulars of the matters on which their evidence  is  sought; 
subject to the discretion of the Committee, witnesses shall be entitled to file written statements of the evidence; 
witnesses shall be supplied with a copy of this Resolution; 
witnesses may be accompanied by counsel or solicitor for the purposes of being advised by them as to their rights and, subject to the discretion of the Committee, be permitted to ask questions of other witnesses either themselves or through their counsel or solicitor; 
unless otherwise ordered by the Committee, television, radio and still and movie photography shall not be used at a Committee hearing while a witness is giving evidence; 
if the Committee determines that evidence or testimony at any hearing may tend to defame, degrade or incriminate any person the Committee may - 
receive such evidence or testimony in private session unless the person who may be defamed, degraded or incriminated requests the Committee to hear evidence having such tendency in public hearing; 
afford such person as far as possible an opportunity voluntarily to appear as a witness; and 
receive and dispose of requests from such person to subpoena additional witnesses; 
the Committee may strike out and forbid the publication of evidence or testimony having such character and which has been given in public hearing and which the Committee decides should- have been- received in private session: 
the Committee endeavour to avoid publication of in camera evidence unlessit is essential for the purpose of giving a proper report to the Senate; 
witnesses whose evidence is taken in camera shall be made aware that, notwithstanding that their evidence is taken in camera, it may be published to the Senate if the Committee decides that such publication is essential for the purpose of properly reporting to the Senate: 
witnesses shall be permitted to have access to the transcript of their evidence for the purpose of making correction of inaccuracies in the reporting of printing of evidence or correction of matters of fact which do not materially alter the sense of the answer; 
That except where the Committee by vote otherwise decides hearings shall be open to the public; 
That the Committee may ask for the appointment of legal counsel to assist the Committee. 
That the Committee report to the Senate on or before the last sitting of the Senate prior to 31st August 1973. 
That the foregoing provisions of this Resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders.  ] will set out the alterations which I desire to make. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator  Prowse)  - Is leave granted? 
I was about to do so. The alterations I desire to make are really minor. There are not many. The first amendment is to insert the words 'Serbian community' after the words 'Australian Croatian community' and before the words 'Slovenian community' which appear in paragraph 1 (b). The words to be inserted were inadvertently omitted from the typed copy whichI signed and laid on the table of the Senate yesterday. My second amendment is to leave out paragraphs 13 (d), 13 (h) and 15. 
If the honourable senator has a notice paper he will see the full motion of which I gave notice yesterday. We are leaving out paragraphs 13 (d), 13 (h) and 15. 
It is a pretty poor state of affairs when members of the Government-- 
I submit that the notice paper shows the notice of motion which I moved yesterday. These are only simple amendments. We are leaving out paragraphs 13 (d), 13 (h) and 15 entirely. If leave is refused-- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Georges,  are you raising a point of order? 
Then I think the honourable senator should be pleased about this. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The point of order has been considered.  Senator Gair  is following the customary practice of the Senate. No doubt at a later time he may have the amendments prepared but there is no standing order that would require him to circulate the amendments now at this stage. 
 Mr Deputy President,  it would appear that the only mistake I have made is to credit the members of the Government party with more ability than they are prepared to admit they have. If leave is refused, I will simply move amendments to cover these additions and deletions and the amendments will be circulated. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! When  Senator.- Gair  has completed his explanation I will put the motion that leave be granted. I call  Senator Gair. 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT-Order! My ruling stands that  Senator Gair  may complete his explanation. 
I. sought, leave to amend the motion. ;..... 
The  DEPUTY. PRESIDENT-  Order! I want the Senate to understand, the situation.  Senator Gair'  is. attempting- to .explain his amendments . tq., the Senate., I , trust that the Senate will allow .the explanation to continue.. 
I said in relation to the motion as ..it , appears on the .business sheet, notice of which I gave yesterday, that the alterations are simple and feW in number, and I have enumerated 'them. ":  
I have . read . them twice already.   , :i. .. 
Sentaor GAIR - I have so. 1 seek leave to make the alterations as set out .by me to the motion notice of which I gave yesterday. 
I present the following petition from  119  citizens  of  the Commonwealth..... : 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That Australian citizens place great value on the rights of individuals; 
That Australian citizens believe that abortion should be a matter for individual decision; 
That abortion should be removed from the realm of criminal law and be a matter for the women concerned and her medical attendants; 
That abortion is not a desirable form of birth control and that emphasis should be placed on education, better methods and wider use of contraception; 
That as education is advanced and better con traception becomes available the need for abortion will diminish  to  negligible proportions. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled will give support to the abortion Bill before the House of Representatives upholding the liberty and rights of individuals. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I rise to support the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  I had hoped that there would be a continuance of the debate on the proposed appointment of a Senate committee to examine the matter of civil rights of Australian migrants. It is true that the debate on that issue could have been concluded yesterday had it not been for the usual, excessive, inexcusable and deliberate interruption of the proceedings of the Senate. 
The figures given by the Leader of the Opposition are accurate: It took me 49 minutes to make a speech that normally would have' taken IS to 17 minutes. 
It is a pity about reading. I read too well for some honourable senators. 1 had hoped that there would be a resumption of that debate and that the matter would be disposed of. In the ordinary course of events tonight would be devoted to the discussion of General Business. Honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber made a lot of noise yesterday about the claim that I could have moved the motion 1 moved yesterday on a Thursday night. I now want a continuance of the debate tonight, but I am being frustrated in my endeavours. 1 propose to move an amendment to the motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. lt is in the form of an addition. 1 move: 
At  the end of motion add: ', except for General  Business Order  of  the Day No. 15, which will have precedence at 8 p.m.' 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Acting AttorneyGeneral. Did the 'Illawarra Mercury' newspaper of 27th March correctly report the Attorney-General when it claimed that at an Australian Labor Party victory dinner on 2nd March  Senator Murphy  told his audience that people should write to him if they wanted Australian Security Intelligence Organisation dossiers? Did  Senator Murphy  also say that people were entitled to this information since it was about them? If this report is correct, how many people have written to  Senator Murphy  seeking ASIO dossiers and how many such dossiers have been distributed to members of the public? 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting AttorneyGeneral. Further to my question yesterday concerning the statement in the 'Illawarra Mercury' newspaper of 27th March that  Senator Murphy  told an Australian Labor Party victory dinner at Port Kembla on 2nd March that people should write to him if they wanted Australian Security Intelligence Organisation dossiers, I again wish to raise this matter with the Minister. Will he urgently investigate how many such dossiers have been distributed to the public, especially in view of the fact that my office has since been in touch with the editorial office of the newspaper which believes the report to be accurate and to contain no errors? Further, the newspaper states that no ALP official in Wollongong or any member of  Senator Murphy's  staff has complained to it that any question of inaccurate reporting is involved. 
I ask a question of the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Was the primary purpose of  Dr Cairns's  visit to China the promotion of trade? Is it not a fact that much of  Dr Cairns's  time was spent in diplomatic talks with the Chinese Foreign Minister, Chi Peng-fei, Prince Sihanouk and the ambassadors to Peking of the Vietcong, North Vietnam and North Korea, and that  Dr Cairns  said in an Australian Broadcasting Commission broadcast that his visit was primarily political with trade incidental? Is it true that during most of the visit  Dr Cairns  was completely out of touch with the Australian Embassy in China and the Australian Ambassador to China,  Dr Stephen  Fitzgerald? Is it also true that  Dr 
Cairns refused to use the communications facilities offered by the Australian Embassy, preferring those provided by the Chinese Government? Will  Dr Cairns  report to Parliament in his capacity as Minister for Overseas Trade' and Minister for Secondary Industry or as our unofficial Minister for Foreign Affairs? 
-I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I ask it at the request of my colleague  Senator Byrne  who has had to return to Brisbane for a dental operation. The question arises from an on-site deputation to  Senator Byrne  last Monday from residents of the lower Nudgee area in Brisbane who live near the proposed extensions to the Brisbane Airport. Is the Minister aware of the very grave hardship being inflicted en residents in this area, including people who are small crop farmers, ex-servicemen  and  widows, by the delay by the Department of Transport in determining exactly the northern and western boundaries of the airport extensions? Is the Minister aware of the hardship which has resulted to these people as the land has not been acquired and therefore they cannot commence negotiations for compensation? Will the Minister indicate the projected boundaries and, if he does, will he make an immediate announcement of the proposed acquisitions? If at this point he cannot indicate what the boundaries will be will he announce to the Senate how long it will be before he can make such an announcement on the boundaries? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. On 15 and 16 May I asked 2 questions of  Senator Willesee  who was representing  Senator Murphy  while the latter was overseas. I asked  Senator Willesee  whether he would investigate a report in the 'Illawarra Mercury' of 27 March that on 2 March,  Senator Murphy  told an Australian Labor Party victory dinner at Port Kembla that people should write to him if they wanted Australian Security Intelligence Organisation dossiers. I also asked  Senator Willesee  whether he would investigate how many such dossiers had been distributed to the public.  Senator Willesee  replied that he would refer the matter for attention and make inquiries. I now ask: In view of the fact that  Mr John  Richardson, executive editor of the 'Illawarra Mercury' has confirmed the accuracy of his newspaper's report of  Senator Murphy's  remarks on 2 March, what has been the result of the promised inquiry into the distribution of ASIO dossiers by  Senator Murphy? 
I desire to direct a question without notice to the Attorney-General. Has the Minister yet had the opportunity of looking into the claim made in questions asked by me on 15 and 16 May and yesterday that he told an Australian Labor Party victory dinner at Port Kembla on 2 March that people should write to him if they wanted Australian Security Intelligence Organisation dossiers? Is the claim correct or not? Is the report in the 'Illawarra Mercury' wrong or right? 

 Senator MURPHYS thank  Senator Gair  for having raised the matter again. Yesterday I answered the latter part of his question as to whether any dossiers, as he called them, had been handed out. I said no, and that of course is the position. I cannot recall having made the statement to which the honourable senator has referred. I have asked the staff members including one who was with me and I have spoken to one of my colleagues who was at the dinner and I cannot find anyone who says that this was said by me. I have no recollection of making the statement. 
 According to the editor  it  was handed in. 
 Normally  I  would not support a gag or a guillotine except under very urgent circumstances.  I  was leader of a government in another place and  I  had a very excellent record. Seldom, if ever, did  I  apply the gag in the years that  I  occupied that position.  I  have shown here over the years that  I  am one who believes in the right of senators making speeches on the various subjects that come before the Senate. But  I  must confess that on the last couple of Bills we have dealt with there has been protracted debate - unnecessary debate and tedious repetition by speakers. The Opposition to some extent must accept the responsibility for the action taken by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  today. Yesterday in the debate on education grants we heard one senator speaking for about 35 minutes on libraries. I know that he is very interested in libraries. 
Yes. It was at 8 o'clock. It is true that the Grants Commission Bill was a very important Bill and I heard an excellent dissertation on it by  Senator Wright  today, but a lot of other speeches on that issue could not be regarded as being very pertinent to the contents of the Bill. There were offenders on both sides. I listened to  Senator Gietzelt  last night for a lengthy period and it was very difficult for me to discern just what he was getting at in the Bill. I have heard others deliver similar speeches. A repetition of material was engaged in by members of the Opposition. We have to be reasonable and exercise common sense. We do not want to rush away from the Senate without having discharged our responsibilities and duties in making a proper review. I want to do the job properly, reasonably and in an orderly fashion. 
I am not dealing with the duration; I am dealing with the principle. I will deal with the duration in my time and if I need  Senator Webster's  assistance I will ask for it, and that is not very likely. Having dealt with the first phase of this subject, let me say that I agree to some extent with  Senator Greenwood  on the duration of a debate on these subjects. It is true that the Leader of the Government circulated a list but there has been no consultation or discussion as to whether his estimation of the time that would be required for a Bill is correct or not - whether it is sufficient or insufficient. I think that we the leaders of parties should have been consulted on that aspect, at least. However, the Leader of the Government did say a little while ago that he did not wish to be dogmatic on these allotted times and that if the occasion arose and an extension of time in connection with the debate on any legislation was necessary, he was prepared to accept a motion or request to provide for an extension of time. 
I agree with other speakers in this debate that the allotment of 3 hours for the debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill could prove to be insufficient. So much publicity has been given to this very im portant Bill which is of concern not only to the parties in this Parliament but also to the Australian public as a whole because normally in industrial matters the public is the last to be considered. It is the employer or the employees union which gets the big headlines. Their interests and points of view are publicised, but the interests of the public are never given any consideration. After all, we represent in this place the members of the public and they are entitled to consideration in important matters such as this. I certainly will move for an extension of the 3 hours allotted for the debate on that Bill if the issue has not been adequately discussed in that time. Several other Bills on the notice paper relate to minor matters. Some Bills have been previously touched on and debated. I instance the Death Penalty Abolition Bill. Excluding the calculation by the Leader of the Government of times to be allotted with respect to certain Bills. I support the action taken to deal with the remaining business before the Senate in this session according to a proper, ordered pattern. Let us get down to that business and do it. If the time allotted is not sufficient to discuss any item of legislation, we have the numbers to increase the time allotted for debate. The Leader of the Government has indicated already that if we need additional time to debate a particular item he is prepared to agree to that additional time being made available. That being so, we are not bound strictly to these suggested times. They are only suggested times, I take it? 
That is true. If the motion is agreed to, the proposals become binding, but that does not stop anyone from moving an amendment seeking to increase the time for debate on a particular item. 
I say most definitely that my colleagues and I were exasperated with the attitude of some members of the Opposition in the debate dealing with the Grants Commission Bill and also on the legislation relating to grants to the States for education purposes. There was no necessity for the great deal of the debate which took place. Those matters could have been more adequately and more appropriately dealt with at other times. 
I do not see any reason why debate on any issue before the Senate cannot be confined to the principles of the Bill under consideration. I would like to see - I have said this here before - the Presiding Officer of the Senate have greater regard to relevant and tedious repetition by members of the Senate- 
I have said it before. I will say it again. I will not be interrupted by you. I have had experience as a Presiding Officer in a Parliament in which we did not permit member after member to rise and to repeat and to recite the same case and the same issues. If a case is put and it is supported by another honourable senator, that does not mean that all honourable senators must rise and repeat what they have heard from other speakers. Such action would certainly hold up the business of the Senate. Our aim and our responsibility is to ensure that that does not happen. Great responsibility rests with the Presiding Officer in the Senate. Honourable senators are allowed to do a world tour on some issues which come before the Senate from time to time. 
Some will go to China next week, I believe. I will not be detained here next week if I can help it while others are travelling to China and Russia at the expense of the public. My first duty is to the State of Queensland, which I represent in the Senate. I will devote my recess to renewing acquaintance with the people whom I represent, whether they vote for me or not. 
I concur. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I rise to indicate that the members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party are opposed to this Bill. The purpose of the Bill has been stated already by previous speakers. It aims to increase the number in the Senate by four, 2 senators to come from the Northern Territory and 2 senators from the Australian Capital Territory. The addition of 4 territorial senators would, I believe, upset the balance and the constitutional role of the Senate as a States House. I have indicated the stated purpose of the Bill. But the hidden reason is not so much a desire on the part of the Government to give greater representation to a section of the people of Australia. It is obvious that the true reason is a political one. It is a hope in the hearts of members of the Government to increase the number of senators in the belief that they can create a balance of power in the Senate to the Government's advantage. As we all know, the Senate is unquestionably the most important of all the Federal features of the Australian Constitution. At Federation it was devised to link together in unity a number of co-equal political communities under a common system of government. 
The Senate is not just a House of review. It is a chamber in which the States, considered as separate entities, are represented in such a way as to enable them to protect their constitutional rights against invasion and to advocate their peculiar and special interests. For this reason at Federation the original States were given equality of representation in one chamber of the Parliament so that they might effectively resist at the legislative stage any attempt to invade and violate their rights as States. We all know - it has been said repeatedly - that if a Senate system had not been devised we probably never would have had a Federation. That provision was made to protect the smaller States against the larger ones, and particularly the less populous States such as South Australia, Tasmania and Western Australia. It is a principle of Federation without which the Australian colonies would not have agreed to the compact. There was to be equality of Senate representation of the original States. Also, it was agreed that all proposed legislation was to have the assent of a majority of the senators of the States. This was done so that the 3 big States could not ride roughshod over he 3 smaller ones. 
It is interesting to note that only responsible Government colonies - not Crown colonies or territories were admitted as members of the Federal partnership. Therefore, the present Bill seeks to change the whole basis of our Federation. The proposed territorial senators, with full voting rights, would not be representatives of sovereign States and might well achieve a balance of power in the Senate as I suggested. That would destroy the principle of equal representation of the States and the principle that all proposed legislation requires the assent of a majority of the senators of the States. In other words, the Senate would cease to be a true States House. 
Surely the States that originally agreed to federate on the basis that the States rights would be safeguarded have every right to be consulted about this Bill which seeks to destroy their States House. Were they consulted? Of course not. They have not been consulted to my knowledge, anyhow, or to the knowledge of any other member of the Senate. I do not believe that they were consulted in any form. This suggests that this move is simply a way of the Whitlam Government to destroy the States, to have a Federal voice and to centralise all power and government activity in the Commonwealth capital, in one House of Parliament. The Labor Party makes no secret of the fact that part of its platform for years has been the abolition of the Senate, but it is conscious of the great difficulties confronting it in this connection. Not feeling confident about its chances of success in a referendum on the abolition of the Senate, it sets about to erode the Senate's power, influence and prestige. 
He has advocated openly the abolition of the Senate. 
That is a very pertinent interjection.  Senator Durack  said: 'But not in  Senator Keeffe's  lime'. I cite the example of a man, since dead, who was  President  of the Senate for not less than 8 years. He was a member of the Senate for a total of over 30 years. It was not until he retired that he advocated the abolition of the Senate. Surely the Government must be conscious of the fact that the people of Australia would not have a bar of any attempt to destroy the prestige of the Senate. The referendum in 1967 was an excellent example of that. The Government of the day held a referendum on whether the nexus between the Senate and the House of Representatives should be broken. The major political parties supported that proposal, with the exception of several Liberal parliamentarians of independent thought, several Country Party members and the Democratic Labor Party as a party, who took up the role of opponent of the Government's attempt to interfere with the prestige of the Senate. What was the result? The Government's proposal was defeated overwhelmingly. It was carried in one Stale, New South Wales, by a hatful of votes out of millions. All the other States rejected overwhelmingly the proposal that there should be any interference with the nexus between the Senate and the House of Representatives. 
This Bill is another snide attempt - the other attempt was not so snide, it was more open - to interfere with the prestige of the 
Senate in a different way. If carried, it would have the effect of breaking the nexus just as effectively. I assert what has been asserted by previous speakers. The Senate is the States House, and the Territories - the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory - can be represented adequately in the House of Representatives, which is the people's House. The Senate is the States House. If this Bill is passed, the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory will be represented in the Senate. But where will it end? Who knows? 1 do not have to repeat what has been said already. The other Territories, which have been named, will be entitled to representation in the Senate if the Bill is agreed to. 
Yes, and Christmas Island and many more. The destruction of our bicameral federal system would be complete. It would be destroyed completely. An American case was cited by  Senator Jessop  who led for the Opposition on this Bill. One last objection to the Bill is its proposal to tie the terms of the proposed Territorial senators to the life of the House of Representatives. This could easily lead to the tying of the terms of all senators to the life of the House of Representatives. This would destroy completely the Senate's present independence. The Bill, if carried, would strike a severe, perhaps a mortal, blow to Australia's federal system. It would further the grand Whitlam design to weaken and destroy the States and so concentrate all power in one Federal House whose electorates are suitably gerrymandered to perpetuate his power. 
For those reasons, which 1 consider to be good, sound and substantial reasons, the Democratic Labor Party will not support the Bill. We will oppose it. Why are members of the Australian Labor Party in Government so intent on destroying this edifice which was the conception of the fathers of Federation? Those great men worked tirelessly for years to get a federation of the States on the basis of equality of all States and of protection for the smaller States against the larger States. I know that some people, mainly in the big States, cannot understand why Tasmania and South Australia should have as many senators as have New South Wales, Victoria and perhaps my own Stale of Queensland. They cannot understand why the Premier of Tasmania and his Treasurer should have as much say at a Premiers Conference and a Loan Council meeting as have the representatives of the larger States. The reason, of course, is obvious. It came about because great men, big men, saw the need to protect the weak against the strong. It is for that reason that this country has been so successful, having regard to its age. I believe that our parliamentary system of government is a model for many other countries. 
In 1967 the people showed in a very decisive manner that they recognise, realise and appreciate fully the necessity to have a responsible Senate, a Senate made up of men who will have regard to the welfare of the States they represent, men who will act judiciously, honestly and responsibly in the decisions that they make on the issues which come before the Senate. The voters do not expect their representatives in the Senate to be the tools of outside influences. They do not expect them to be robots for central executives. I read in the newspaper this afternoon of a most humiliating incident. The Labor Premier of Western Australia is in London to join forces with the other State Premiers on a mission which will determine who has sovereignty over the submerged lands of the Australian continenal shelf.  Mr Tonkin  was informed on arrival in London that he has to withdraw from the delegation because the Australian Labor Party Executive in Western Australia has decided that he is not to take any part in this very important mission. Is that a sample of open government? Why not transfer the executive of this Government to the trades hall and be finished with it? Why not take it out of the atmosphere of Parliament altogether and take it into the halls of their dictators? They may as well be open about it instead of going on with this repeated dictatorship through their representatives in Parliament? Honourable senators can appreciate and I certainly can appreciate the humiliation that  Mr Tonkin  has suffered as a result of this action. What will the public think of him? He, a man who has been elected democratically by the people and by his Party as its leader, has been reduced to nothing. He accepts his responsibility as the Premier of Western Australia on a matter which he believes is of importance to the welfare of his State, yet on arrival in London he is told that Joe Chamberlain of the ALP or some other Pooh-Bah- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - Order! I would just like to point out that it is not  Senator Murphy's  place to complain about  Senator Webster.  If it is necessary I will do that, and I will ensure that I do it. I ask  Senator Gair  to keep as near as possible to the subject matter of the Bill and not to digress too far from it. 
I think my remarks were related to the Bill. I was referring to the influence of outside interests on the elected representatives of the people. The person to whom I referred - I know this because I was on the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party in 1955 - was responsible for the destruction of the Labor Party and the Labor movement in Australia because he placed himself over and above the elected representatives of the people on that Executive and in other places. He believed that he would be the big force. I was closer to the Labor movement at that time than  Senator Murphy  was. I had not heard of his name in the Labor movement at that time. The destruction of the Labor movement was based on the destruction of men who had been cradled in the Labor movement and who had fought in a reasonable and commonsense way - in a balanced way - for the advancement and the improvement of the social standards of the people. But that was not good enough. The rightwingers, as we were described, had to be thrown out because we were an impediment to the forces which wanted to destroy the Australian Labor Party and also to destroy Australia in the course of their machinations. 
I will content myself with those few observations. You can understand my feeling,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  as one who was cradled in the Labor movement and who saw the grand political edifice and the movement which had achieved so much destroyed by men who had not had the same experience but who were hell-bent on exercising their power, wherever they could get it and however they could get it, to take over the Labor movement. I hope that the people of Australia will awaken, to a greater measure than they are awake at the moment or were awake on 2 December, and will realise just what is taking place at the present time under the present Government, the attempts on all sides to centralise power in Canberra and attempts by gerrymander and by fixing the numerical strength of this Senate to gain complete power and domination over people in a free land. 
Members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party desire to be associated with the motion of condolence to the widow and relatives of the late Arthur Calwell. 
I am at a disadvantage inasmuch as it was not my privilege to have known the late gentleman. However my colleagues and I desire to be associated with the motion of condolence to his bereaved relatives. 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the 'Prime Minister. Is the Minister aware of a statement recently made by the New Zeal'and Labor Prime Minister,  Mr Kirk,  that New Zealand forces would remain in Singapore? Does the Minister agree with  Mr Kirk's  further assertion that the size of the forces was not important compared with the contribution that they would make to the political stability of the area? Are Australia's strategic interests so different from those of New Zealand as to justify total withdrawal of all Australian forces from the Five Power Agreement? 
 A Dorothy Dixer. 
It is still too early to be specific as to the extent to which this practice has been indulged in on this occasion. A very preliminary examination suggests that there has not been any large clearance of petroleum products. However, it also appears that there have been abnormal clearances of potable spirits of at least 4 weeks' demand and tobacco products of two to three weeks' demand. There is always a significant quantity of duty paid goods in the pipeline between manufacturers' bonds and retail outlets. Consequently, the retail price of those goods on which the excise has been incl, eased should not be affected for some time. To the extent that there were abnormal clearances of tobacco products and spirits, as I have indicated, there is no justification for any price increase for a considerable time. When the final information is available in a few days' time I will make it available to the Senate. 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Does the Minister recall that during the last election campaign the Australian Labor Party promised not to reduce defence spending below 3.5 per cent of the gross national product? Will the Minister agree that earlier this year the Prime Minister and he modified that promise by pledging that the defence provision in this year's Budget would be not less than 3.2 per cent of the gross national product? Does not the actual Budget defence vote fall short by 10 per cent of the Minister's own modified pledge? How many further election promises does the Government propose to break? Will the Minister indicate the approximate date when the Government plans the final elimination of the Australian defence structure? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Are a number of Aboriginal girls employed in the Commonwealth Public Service at Canberra to be given free travel from Canberra to their respective homes and return at Easter time. 
In addition to the customary Easter holidays are they to be granted leave on full pay on the Tuesday following Easter Monday and Thursday and Friday of the same week. 
If the answers to either (1) or (2) is in the affirmative, why are white girls of similar age and status in the Commonwealth Public Service not to receive such concessions. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the statement recently made by New Zealand's Labor Prime Minister,  Mr Kirk,  that New Zealand forces would remain in Singapore. 
2 ) Does the Prime Minister agree with  Mr Kirk  's further assertion that the size of the forces was not important compared to the contribution that they would make 'to the political stability of the area'. 
Are Australia's strategic interests so different from New Zealand 's as to justify the total withdrawal of all Australian forces from the Five Power Agreement. 
by leave- I desire to inform you,  Mr President,  and members of the Senate that on this day I have relinquished the position of Parliamentary Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, a position which I have occupied for the last 8 years. The road has not been an easy one. There were 2 members of my Party in the Senate from 1965 to 1968. During that time we were required to keep abreast of events and a great deal of hard work was done in studying documents and other material. I think that on occasions we succeeded in stealing the initiative from the official Opposition in those days, much to its chagrin. Our numbers later increased to 5, but this is still a small number among whom to spread the work load. Nevertheless, under the circumstances I believe that we have done a reasonably good job. We placed very high- this was almost our paramount objective- in our order of priorities the belief that we should conduct ourselves responsibly, with balance and common sense and at all times having regard to the welfare of Australia and its people. 

 Senator McManus, who has been my  deputy  over that period, has been selected unanimously to fill my position.  Senator Byrne  from Queensland has been elected  Deputy  Leader.  Senator Kane  has been selected Secretary and  Senator Little  will be the Whip of the Party, although he will still receive his present salary. In June I celebrated the 41st anniversary of my election to the Queensland Parliament. So I have had a good deal of experience and I hope that I have gathered some knowledge in my years in Parliament. If I have not I have no right to be here. I will continue to interest myself in the affairs of the nation and as soon as I am properly recovered I hope that I will regain the voice that I once possessed and let it be heard. 
I withdraw contingent notice of motion No. 6 standing in my name on the notice paper. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Is the Minister aware that under new regulations brought in by the present Government, people who wish to have their mail re-addressed, even temporarily, have to pay a special fee of $ 1 a month? Does the Minister realise that this new impost is a severe hardship on some people, particularly pensioners who might leave their homes for one or two months to live with the families of their sons or daughters for the school holidays, etc? Will the Minister ask his colleague to investigate the possibility of removing this re-address fee, which is a hardship on these people, from all needy groups of people in the community? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that there are severe shortages in the supply of spare parts for the 1973 model of the Australians' alleged own car, the Holden? Is he aware that these shortages are affecting in addition to owners of Holdens used for private purposes business sections of the community who use a Holden vehicle to deliver their products, such as bread and milk? Is he aware that items such as fan belts and caps for petrol tanks are unprocurable in Brisbane and that attempts to procure them from Sydney and Melbourne have been unsuccessful? What has caused this disruption in the supply of Holden spare parts? Has the Minister any idea when the shortages will be remedied? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move a motion in the terms which have been distributed to honourable senators. (The motion read as follows)- 
1 ) That, in view of the fact that  Mr Wilfred  Burchett has publicly stated that he is not opposed to a public investigation of his past activities, a Select Committee of the Senate be appointed to inquire into and report upon- 
whether or not  Mr Wilfred  Burchett, an Australian citizen, during the period of the conduct of the war in Korea in which Australian troops were in combat as part of an United Nations Force against the Military Forces of North Korea, did engage in activities likely to impede the successful conclusion of the conflict for Australia and/or in such activities as were likely to give aid and comfort to the enemies of Australia and thereby prejudice the interests of the Australian Nation, namely: 
personal participation in enemy interrogation of Australian servicemen held as prisoners of war, and 
devising and/or disseminating 'Germ Warfare' propaganda which was used against the interests and activities of the United Nations Force; 
whether at a time when the People's Republic of China and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics were giving actual military aid to the Forces of North Korea then engaged in hostilities against Australian troops in the field, Wilfred Burchett then had any professional relationship, remunerated or not, with either of those Governments: 
whether during the period of conflict between North Viet-Nam and South Viet-Nam, in which Australian troops were engaged, whether as advisers to the Military Forces of South VietNam or in actual conflict against the Forces of North Viet-Nam, Wilfred Burchett then had any professional relationship, whether remunerated or not, with the Government of North VietNam; 
whether at any time whatsoever Wilfred Burchett has had any professional relationships or not with the K.G.B. of the Soviet Union; 
whether, in the event that any or all of the above questions is or arc answered in the affirmative, such conduct by Wilfred Burchett, so established, constituted an offence against the Criminal Law of the Commonwealth; 
whether, in the event that question ( 1 ) (e) is answered in the affirmative, Wilfred Burchett is still punishable at law for any offence so constituted; 
whether, in the event that question (1 ) (e) is answered in the negative, the appropriate public law should be amended in necessary respects to provide that conduct of such nature by any person will in future constitute a breach of the Criminal Law of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
That the Select Committee consist of seven Senators, three to be nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate and four other Senators, two to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, one to be nominated by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, and one to be nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the Senate. 
That the Committee may proceed to the despatch of business notwithstanding that all members have not been appointed and notwithstanding any vacancy. 
That the Committee elect one of its members as Chairman. 
That the  Chairman  of the Committee may, from time to time, appoint another member of the Committee to be the Deputy-Chairman of the Committee, and that the member so appointed act as  Chairman  of the Committee at any time when there is no  Chairman  or the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the Committee. 
That, in the event of an equality of voting, the  Chairman,  or the Deputy-Chairman when acting as  Chairman,  shall have a casting vote. 
7 ) That the presence of three members of the Committee shall be necessary to constitute a meeting of the Committee for the exercise of its powers. 
That the Committee have power to send for and examine persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, to sit in open court or in private, notwithstanding any prorogation of the Parliament, and have leave to report from time to time its proceedings and the evidence taken and such interim recommendations as it may deem fit. 
That members of the public and representatives of the news media may attend and report any public session of the Committee unless the Committee otherwise orders. 
10) That the Committee be empowered to print from day to day such papers and evidence as may be ordered by it. A daily Hansard shall be published of such proceedings of the Committee as take place in public. 
That the Senate authorises the televising of public hearings of the Committee, at the discretion of the Committee, and under such rules as the Senate may adopt. 
12) That the Committee shall ensure that the operational methods of law enforcement agencies be protected from disclosure where that would be against the public interest. 
That the Committee report to the Senate on or before the last sitting of the Senate prior to 30 June 1 974. 
That the foregoing provisions of this Resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. When was the committee of inquiry into the Post Office established? Who are the members of the committee? What is their remuneration? Is it subject to tax? Is a time limit placed on the presentation of their report? When is the committee expected to present its report to Parliament? 
-Before I address myself to the provisions of the Bill before the Senate, I should like to say that I am grateful to  Senator Gietzelt  for having corrected some of his colleagues who expressed the view that what the Opposition was trying to do was to prevent the people of Australia from exercising their vote on this matter.  Senator Gietzelt  knows, as well as I and any other thinking person in the community, that irrespective of the results of this debate and irrespective of whether the Bill is passed or is rejected this question will go to the people in the form of a referendum. But to suggest, as some members of the Government have done in their speeches here tonight, that we are trying to prevent the people from having a say is wrong. I am grateful to  Senator Gietzelt  for correcting his colleagues in the false understanding of this matter. 
In my long political career in Queensland naturally I had a good deal to do with local government authorities, particularly during the period that I was Treasurer of the State. I have learned to appreciate very sincerely the great work that learned governments, in the main, do. I have learned with appreciation too that local governments form a very particular part of the government of Australia, notwithstanding the fact that the Constitution of this country makes no reference to local government at all. The Constitution speaks of the central governments- the Commonwealth Government- and the States, which proves that the local governments are the creation of the States. They function with the approval of the State governments. They are guided by the department which deals with local government matters in each State. Over the years the States have built up a very effective and efficient branch of government in their local government departments. The State Governments keep these councils directed and informed of the requirements. Councils, like individual human machines, vary in the degree of efficiency and in their operations. Some are not nearly so good as others. Some have a peculiar order of priorities and works that are urgently required are neglected for others that could be left in abeyance. In the main I speak of councils in the highest terms, but there is always a sick sister or two. I often feel that local government authorities would be more efficient if there were less party politics in our local councils. Often the political influence destroys a proper and conscientious discussion of the needs of a community. 
I could say many things about the activities of the Brisbane City Council, now and over a period of years, and they would not all be laudatory. 
I do not have to be anything of the kind. Do not taunt me or aggravate me or I may say something that I will - 
I would not regret it so much but it would be out of order because it would not be connected with the Bill. Local government bodies depend on rates for their revenue and the loans that State governments make available to them. They have a right that the State governments do not have under the present financial arrangement between the Commonwealth and the States; that is, with the approval of the Loan Council they can go on the loan market, a right which the States do not have today. When Loan Council meetings are held loan moneys are allocated to the States and there is provision for local government in the allocation. In my time in government we made available to local government the surplus profits of the State Government Insurance Office. When private companies were entering into competition and investing their money we were giving it to the local authorities at the minimum rate of interest. 
I am grateful to  Senator Wood  for that remark. He has had a long and very creditable record in the field of local government in the city and district of Mackay. We encouraged local government authorities by giving them heavy subsidies to sewer their districts and to provide electricity reticulation. We gave them big subsidies to help them to do that. Where people were dependent on kerosene lamps in many areas, for many years now they have had electricity. We have done everything to help. Whilst I am prepared to commend the Federal Government for intimating its willingness to help local government financially, without knowing what conditions are to be laid down I feel that the methods proposed and the planned manner of lending the money to local government are not correct. 
Direct to the local authorities. I think it is in the interests of local authorities and the Federal Government to make the loans through the State Department of Local Government. There would be a greater measure of efficiency and a more accurate recording of the financial position of local authorities than would follow direct contact between the Federal Government and the local authorities. I repeat that local authorities are the creation of State governments and not of the Federal Government. Whilst I commend the Federal Government for intimating its willingness to find money for local government I think it should be supplied through the State departments. 
-How could it? It is one that exists now. In the field of mining the Commonwealth Government is prepared to concede recognition that State Departments of Mines have a greater collection of data and knowledge of mining than the Commonwealth Government has because those departments have been in it since the States have been States. The same applies to local authorities. The State governments have had local authorities within their jurisdiction and they have a greater knowledge of the work of those bodies. 
The local government authority would apply to the Federal Government. It goes to the State and it is allocated to that particular local authority. Furthermore, the State would be in possession of information regarding every local authority. Some of them would not be worthy of financial assistance ahead of others. They could intimate to the Commonwealth that the money could be better spent, that greater value could be obtained if the money was directed to another local authority. 
It could be, but if there is to be an operation between the Commonwealth and the local authority to the exclusion of the State, how on earth can the State have any knowledge of the matter? The State would not be able to supply information unless asked for it. In the main my objection to the Bill is the proposed method of distribution of the money. I hope that it is not just an attempt to subvert the authority of State governments and an attempt to centralise further powers in Canberra. If it is, I deplore that motive. I would hate to think that the Commonwealth would be concerned about doing that when the State governments with all their knowledge and experience are better fitted to control local governments than the Commonwealth could hope to be. If the Commonwealth has the money to be made available to the local authorities, let it be done through the State departments. It probably would be found that it would work more satisfactorily and more efficiently and would provide greater benefit to the Commonwealth Government and the local authorities. 
I have listened with great interest to the debate which has ensued on this very important question of the transfer of powers on a reciprocal basis between the Commonwealth and the States. I have heard from  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Carrick  2 excellent speeches in opposition to the measure.  Senator Carrick  gave expression to many of my views, probably in better language than I could have used myself. But it was a startling revelation by  Senator Greenwood  when he said that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has misinformed the public of Australia at  a  Press conference with regard to the relationship between the Commonwealth and the States on this matter. It is a very wrong and an unexpected performance by a Prime Minister when giving out information to the Press to say that there had been a conference of State Premiers in conjunction with the Commonwealth at which an agreement more or less had been reached when that was not the position at  all.  I do not have to disclose my feelings on this as an Australian citizen who has been in political life for a period approaching 42 years as a good solid Laborite. I am a federalist, not a centralist. 
Forty-two years behind the times because I subscribed to the policies laid down by pioneers of the great Australian Labor movement before they were red-anted by the communists and other destroyers of good Labor principles. Of course Australia would never have advanced and progressed to the extent that it has if we had not been enunciating a principle of federalism. We, particularly in Queensland, which was a garrison State during the war, know the value of State government. We know what happened during those war years when our State was virtually overrun with armed forces, Australian and American, and when the major States such as Victoria saw no evidence at all of war. At that time the civilian population of Queensland was required to do without the things which people in other States could get quite freely. Is it any wonder that the public reject referendums when people talk about centralism? Is it any wonder that the Democratic Labor Party was successful, with the aid of a few odd members of the Liberal Party of Australia and the Australian Country Party, in defeating the referendums for the breaking of the nexus? When the ALP, the Liberals and the Country Party had their machinery operating to break the nexus the DLP, with the aid of a few such as  Senator Lillico, Senator Wood, Senator Wright  - 

 - Senator Prowse and others joined with us and we successfully defeated the resolution in all States with the exception of New South Wales where the Yes vote won by a handful of votes. Is it any wonder that all the referendums that have been put to the people have been rejected by the people because they did not want any disturbance in any major way of the existing constitutional rights of the States and the Commonwealth?  Senator Gietzelt,  who is not present in the chamber to hear what I have to say in reply to him, talked about the States not using the powers that they already enjoy. I asked him to enumerate the powers that they had failed to exercise and he mentioned the matter of prices. What is the history of prices? We had price control during the war years and everybody accepted it as they did the rationing of goods. After the war  Mr Chifley,  the then Prime Minister, submitted to the people of Australia a referendum on prices. What did the people do? They rejected it. 
No. They had had a bellyfull of bureaucracy during the time that they had price control. 
Yes- and only because of inactivity on the part of the honourable senator's Government. I happened to be Minister for Prices, amongst other things, in the Queensland Government following the defeat of the Chifley referendum. I made a conscientious attempt to control prices. But I found, as I have told the Senate before, that it was utterly impossible because of section 92 of the Constitution and because of interstate trade. 
That is not why 1 want centralism. I have admitted already that a central government can control a matter such as that better than 6 State governments with different attitudes. When 1 wanted to control the price of commodities produced in Queensland, there was an allegedly friendly Australian Labor Party Government in New South Wales that favoured decontrol of prices. The result was that our products from Queensland went over the border into New South Wales where they could be sold at any price. Our consumers in Queensland were left without, a position for which I received the blame because I endeavoured to control prices. But if that Labor Government in New South Wales had been as conscientious with regard to price control as I had been, there would have been no decontrol of prices in New South Wales. That Government would have worked in conformity and in unison with me. Only recently, the people of Australia had a second opportunity to deal with prices and wages. But what did they do with that opportunity? They threw it out because they did not have the confidence in the present Government to administer and to properly control prices and incomes. 

 Senator O'Byrne- They were confused again by that old goanna Bjelke-Petersen. 
Whatever name the honourable senator may call Premier Bjelke-Petersen or whatever the honourable senator may say about him, it does not become the honourable senator in the first instance, to speak of the Premier of a State in that way. Secondly 1 am sure that it will not upset him very much. At least he has sufficient stamina to stand up for the principles which he espouses. The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Constitution to enable an interchange of powers between the Australian Parliament and the State parliaments. That is a very laudable and attractive proposition. But let us know just what are the strings attaching to this proposal. Let us know just to what extent the States are prepared to go in the transfer of powers. The States have not been overanxious to refer powers. An honourable senator mentioned during the course of a speech today that over the years the States have referred powers on about 25 occasions, and most of those referrals were made during the war years. But I would like to know what powers the Commonwealth is likely to transfer to the States. I do not think that it is likely to transfer any powers to the States. I believe that even before this matter is submitted to the people we should have a clarification of what is likely to take place. 
Much has been said about  Mr Whitlam  's statements and his conference with State Premiers, with the exception of the Premier of Queensland, on this question of an interchange of powers. But that was only a cursory discussion. Even though I might be determined to uphold State rights, I have always been a realistic Australian. I have tried to do the thing which I believe to be in the best interests of Australia and the people as a whole. I was not hidebound by State boundaries or anything else. But I found that anything that emanated from the central Government always was indisputably slanted in favour of Victoria and New South Wales, disregarding Queensland and the outposts of Australia. 
South Australia is a suburb of Victoria. A small example of this is the matter of the closing hours for butchers shops which was determined on what suited Victoria. No regard was paid to the high temperatures or to any of the different circumstances that applied in Queensland or anywhere else. Whatever suited Victoria was invariably the Australia-wide rule. That was the type of thing to which I took exception on every occasion when it was warranted. 
I agree with the amendment. I think that there should be further discussion between the States and the Commonwealth on this very important matter. As a former Premier of Queensland, I warn State governments not to concede powers to the Commonwealth merely to relieve themselves of the odium or the responsibility of implementing some power that they possess. Any loss of sovereignty suffered by the States has been due to their readiness to avoid some responsibility and hand it over to somebody else. Even the transfer of taxation powers was a temporary measure originally. But it was to the credit of  Mr Forgan-Smith,  the Premier of Queensland at that time, that he always opposed it. In line with his thinking, I have always been opposed to it. At an Australian Labor Party Conference held in Brisbane in 1957 I took up that attitude and read a paper in support of the restoration of taxation powers to the States. The late Joe Cahill Premier of New South Wales was there. He read a paper in support of uniform taxation. Of course, he, like so many others, wanted to avoid the odium of collecting taxes. He wanted someone else to collect them, but he wanted to spend the money which had been collected on a very unfair basis. 
It is very easy to transfer powers that you do not want to somebody else and then to cry about not having them. We hear all this talk about the Commonwealth taking over the railways. I do not suppose that there is a State government in Australia that would not readily hand over its railways to the Commonwealth. But I warn State governments that every time they surrender control of these functions they are giving away their sovereignty. I have stated repeatedly that the day the State governments gave away their taxing powers they gave away their sovereignty. Their representatives, including me, came to Canberra like mendicants begging for a return of the tax collected. It did not belong to the Commonwealth. Some of it belonged to the taxpayers of Queensland, the State that I represented. I said to  Sir Arthur  Fadden on one occasion, with respect to loan moneys: 'You would think by your statements that you have been magnanimous and generous. You state that you have allocated so much loan money to Queensland and so much to other States. That is not a gift. That is money that you are empowered to collect from the market that is available to you and distribute it amongst the States. The States have to repay it plus interest. So what credit is due to you?' None at all. The people of Queensland have to repay the loans plus interest. There is a lot of ballyhoo talked about the Commonwealth, about what it does and about the money it spends on education, hospitals or anything else. From where does the money come? It comes from the people of the States. Probably, over the years they have received a lot less than they should have received. So I say that while this Bill which seeks to amend the Constitution and to enable an interchange of powers between the Australian Parliament and the State parliaments is indisputably attractive in its text, it is something that has to be examined very carefully and there must be unanimity between the States and the Commonwealth before a decision is made. It is quite natural that at the Constitutional Convention in Sydney the Premiers said to the Prime Minister: 'That is a very good idea. You might have some powers that you could give to us, and vice versa'. That is a natural reaction to such a submission. But let us know where we are going. Let us have unanimity amongst the States. I repeat that some leaders of State governments are prepared to sacrifice and to surrender any power which they think might cause them to lose votes, instead of having the courage and determination to preserve the sovereignty of the States which they are charged to control. 
I have no objection to people who want to be centralists. When I charge  Mr Whitlam  with being a centralist I do not mean that he is any different from  Mr Chifley  or  Sir Robert  Menzies, who I believe regarded the States as an incubus on the parliamentary system of government. 
They agree with me. However, as a representative of Queensland I will be fighting to the bitter end to preserve the sovereignty, rights and powers of Queensland. 
The honourable senator would want to give away the power of Queensland to a central power. He is not conversant with what took place during the war years. He knows absolutely nothing about it. 
He is said to have no knowledge of that subject either. But do not distract me in my concluding remarks on this matter. It is important enough to warrant further consideration, and the Party for which I speak will support the amendment. The speeches of  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Carrick  expressed my views very thoroughly and fully. I was not at all impressed by the apologia of  Senator Gietzelt.  He knows as well as I do that there are no great powers that the States would want from the Commonwealth, unless in respect of something that the Commonwealth wanted the States to implement for it and had to confer the power on the States for that reason. As honourable senators know, I have had a lot of experience in these matters. I very seriously warn the States to hang on to what they have. Otherwise the people in the States will suffer in the ultimate. 
