
 -Mr Deputy Speaker, it is my privilege and pleasure to participate in this debate on the proposed Address-in-Reply to  His Excellency  the Governor-General at the opening of Parliament. It is with pleasure that I do this as the new member for the Division of Calare, representing the National Country Party in this coalition Government. I am very pleased to support the motion proposed by the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  and ably seconded by the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite).  Before going any further may I congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on attaining your high office. I ask you to convey my congratulations to the  Speaker  of the House for his election to the Speakership, with the high office and responsibility that he has in this Thirtieth Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia. I wish furthermore to carry an expression of allegiance from the electors of Calare to  Her  Majesty the Queen as well as their congratulations to the  Speaker.  I think that under his guidance we can look forward to a long period of orderly and responsible debate. I also would like to congratulate previous speakers, none the least being the honourable members for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  and Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  Honourable members who have made their maiden speeches are now entitled to interject. I suppose that warrants some form of congratulations. At the same time may I commiserate with those who cannot interject during maiden speeches such as mine, even though at times it must cause them extreme frustration. 
Before I go any further in my contribution to the debate on the proposed Address-in-Reply I would like very sincerely to pay credit to my predecessor,  Mr John  England. He represented my electorate for 15 years. As one of the 8 members who represent the same Party as their predecessors amongst the 38 new members I am most honoured, and I hope that I will be able to continue with the ability, sincerity and integrity which my predecessor displayed. He had a distinguished record before he retired, culminating in serving for 3 years as the National Country Party Whip. I believe that there will be many honourable members in this place and people outside it among the staff of Parliament House who will remember John England with great respect and affection. I wish him and his wife well in their retirement from politics. I am sure that colleagues in this House thank him for his able and dedicated service not only to Calare but also to the nation. 
In this address I would like to confine myself to some of the issues that relate particularly to the Division of Calare and to concentrate on some of the issues affecting agriculture and decentralisation. The Division of Calare encompasses much of what is known as central western New South Wales. The geographic and demographic centre of the electorate is Orange. It includes other substantial rural cities and towns such as Parkes, Forbes, Mudgee and Wellington. It lies inland from the Great Dividing Range, much of it between 2 great rivers, the Macquarie and the Lachlan. The electorate consists primarily of high tablelands dominated by Mount Canobolas and extends westwards through plains country typical of much of New South Wales. Calare and its adjacent electorate, represented by my colleague the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard),  include some of the most historically significant areas in Australia. It contains some of the centres of earliest settlement after the crossing of the Blue Mountains in 1813. 
I think it may be worth while to reflect briefly on the significance of that geographical barrier to settlement and development in this country. It took 10 years to find a reasonable route across the Blue Mountains. As we know, this was achieved by Blaxland, Lawson and Wentworth some 25 years after the colonisation of Port Jackson. However, it was not very agreeable terrain and it was obvious that it was easier to settle both southwards and northwards. Therefore we saw early colonisation in areas such as Camden and the lower reaches of the Hunter Valley. Port Jackson was an ideal, sheltered deep sea port and with the rapid expansion of railways- bearing in mind that this country was settled and developed after the Industrial Revolution- Sydney became the hub of a quite sophisticated transport system. Therefore I think there was little encouragement for centres of population and growth to develop inland from Sydney and its associated coastal centres. 
Today this is reflected in what I believe is a very serious imbalance of population and productivity. More than 60 per cent of the population of New South Wales is in Sydney and something of the order of 80 per cent is in the 3 major metropolitan coastal centres. Nearly 95 per cent of the population growth of New South Wales is in these 3 major metropolitan centres. I believe that this is a national problem and I will return to it later in my address. 
The Division of Calare represents a diversity of rural industries ranging from fruit-growing, irrigation, forestry, prime lamb and beef production, wool production and, of course, a considerable area of cropping. In fact within a 1 50 kilometre radius of Orange the value of rural production is higher than most other areas of Australia, or higher. However I would like to reiterate that the problems of farmers have been grave indeed. I notice that my colleague the honourable member for Prospect, who believes that this is not the case, has left the chamber. I must remind him at some time about the realities of the man on the land and the rural industries in general. 
Costs have become completely exorbitant. They have been rising at a greater rate than comparable costs for inputs in other areas of industry. Labor, both quality and quantity, is extremely short and we have been beset for years with fluctuating markets and returns. There is a very serious decline in profitability and a very serious concomitant increase in indebtedness. One of the more serious problems in my opinion is the scarcity of young people who see a rewarding and secure future in agriculture. Many able, energetic, industrious, intelligent and ambitious young people are not going back into agriculture. It is rapidly becoming an old people's game. The average age of workers in agriculture is over 50. The average age of non-rural workers is approximately 20 years younger. Previously I was principal of a college of advanced education in the country. That has led me to believe that the problem of young people not going into agriculture is a long term problem of grave consequence. 
I welcome the initiatives suggested by this Government to devise schemes and means by which we can encourage the right sort of young people, with training and experience, to see a rewarding and secure future in agriculture. If we do not encourage them, I believe that in 25 years time the industry will be in desperate need of such people to lead not only as producers but also as spokesmen for their respective industries. I welcome proposals for orderly and stabilised marketing, measures to stimulate production and investment, measures to provide finance appropriate to the needs and conditions of rural industry. 1 also welcome considerations regarding protection and tariff policy because for many years rural industry has competed on world markets and has allowed fledgeling, growing secondary industries to develop behind a protective tariff wall. I believe that this imbalance needs to be rectified at this stage because rural industries are, competitively, in a very difficult situation at the moment. 
Before I depart from the scenario of agriculture in the division of Calare I wish to make one point to this all male House. That is that I believe that women in rural areas have had a very significant role to play. I believe they can play an even more significant role. They are a most important resource in the country. I believe they can play a valuable role in upgrading the standard of business management on farms and in rural areas. Whether we like it or not, there is very good evidence that in the country at least, women have attained higher levels of education than their husbands and are more receptive, more responsive and are better equipped to undergo further training than their husbands. It is true. 
Calare is not all agriculture by any means; it is not all farms and farmers. Orange is a semiindustralised centre, with major industries, including domestic appliances, and food and fibre processing. It is a rapidly developing centre for administration, both Commonwealth and State. It is a professional centre. It has major developments in health, transport and education. The electorate also has considerable potential for tourism and recreation. Some honourable members will be aware of ventures such as the Lachlan Vintage Village at Forbes and the historic villages of Hill End and Gulgong which, I believe, will play a significant role in future. We are close to Sydney. We are close to centres of urban population. I think we must recognise that there will be pressures for land use, particularly in recreational pressures, impinging on other traditional uses of land. This is an adjustment which I believe we must recognise and for which we must provide. Nevertheless, all in the garden is far from rosy. 
We have problems similar to those facing other rural electorates. I refer to the lack of employment opportunities for the young, for women, particularly those who wish to return to the work force, lack of mobility in jobs, lack of post-school educational facilities, inadequate specialist services, communication costs, which are quite disastrous particularly for small business, the remoteness from centres of administration and, in some cases, without exaggeration, the survival of some of the smaller centres in these rural electorates. The previous Government did a most successful job of completely killing private enterprise, especially in the country. I refer particularly to small business, whether it is in towns or on farms. Record inflation cannot be coped with as easily in the country as it can in other areas. We cannot pass it on as easily. In many cases we cannot pass it on at all. Unemployment has been particularly serious, for reasons which I mentioned previously. 
I think one of the most disastrous things that happened was the gradual change in attitude, particularly of our young people- attitudes towards work, initiative, responsibility and service. I refer to service to the public, giving instead of taking. Some of the principles which I think our forebears pioneered, fought for and died for, were in grave danger of disappearing. 
I return to the problem of redressing the imbalance of population and productivity. I believe this is a problem not only for the division of Calare but also for the nation. There is a very large concentration of people and productivity in the coastal cities. Fortunately, in New South Wales, this fact has been recognised for some time. We have the most innovative schemes in Australia for ensuring that decentralisation and devolution of responsibility can be effected. The New South Wales Department of Decentralisation and Development has looked at 3 areas of assistance. Firstly, it seeks to assist those towns and centres which may be stagnating by providing incentives and measures to restore an equilibrium. Secondly, it seeks to look at regional development and to attempt to re-organise regional administration and planning. Thirdly, as most of us will know, it seeks to encourage the development of centres of growth. 
Bathurst-Orange is one of those centres. Its establishment was announced in 1972. What has happened? I believe that much has been achieved already in a relatively short time, without a very great expenditure of funds. A strong program of home building is occurring in close association with private industry. That, I think, is one of the most important points that should be made. Decentralisation and the establishment of growth centres must be in close association with private industry. We have encouragement for new industries service industries and manufacturing industries to be brought into a centre such as ours. We have had major initiatives for decentralising the work of government authorities, particularly the Central Mapping Authority and, recently, the State Soil Conservation Service. I believe this is a bold and decisive move. 
On the other hand there have been some criticisms of growth centres. I wish to refer briefly to them firstly, there was the national population inquiry the Borrie report which indicated that our projected population would be much lower than we anticipated. However, I believe the problems of the cities are so serious now that they warrant the establishment of growth centres. One thing which must be taken into consideration is the increased mobility of people. People do not necessarily wish to live in Sydney or Melbourne. They are completely fed up with the pollution, congestion and sociological problems which exist and which are growing in our major cities. However, I believe we must not lose sight of the concept of dispersed decentralisation. Many centres, upon the expenditure of a relatively small amount of money, could progress quite adequately. I think it would be unwise to confine all our efforts solely to newly founded growth centres. I think we must be very careful that where land is acquired, in many cases highly productive agricultural land, we must do it as kindly and as sympathetically as possible at a price which is completely satisfactory to the families concerned. 
I welcome these decentralisation initiatives. I hope, in the present climate of budget restraint, where undoubtedly we must control inflation, unemployment and the national indebtedness, that we can still look forward to the longer term and support decentralisation measures. I think we must regard them in the same light as we regard defence. I believe that we must relate the two. Unless we develop and populate this nation, with its great resources and its strategic potential in the world, we may be inviting other people to come and do it for us. 
In conclusion may I say how pleased and honoured I am to be participating in this Parliament, in a government which will undoubtedly restore this country to its proper place in the world, and do it according to the basic principles in which we believe a government which I believe will lead this nation successfully into the 2 1st century. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and relates to the near doubling of bulk postage rates for newspapers under the previous Government, and in particular its serious effect on local and provincial newspapers. Many such newspapers have lost 30 per cent to 40 per cent of their subscriptions. This is causing concern for the viability of newspapers which are often a very significant employer in country centres, and it is also causing concern for local businesses and advertisers as well as for rural residents who rely on their provincial Press for information on local issues and interests. Is the Minister aware of the seriousness of this situation? Will he consider reducing these disastrous bulk postage rates introduced by the previous Government? 
-In my speech during the debate on the AddressinReply, my maiden speech, I mentioned my serious concern about the imbalance of population and productivity in Australia, one of the most centralised countries of the world. I mentioned some facts and figures. For example, in New South Wales over 60 per cent of the population is concentrated in Sydney and over 80 per cent in concentrated in the 3 major metropolitan areas on the coast. Furthermore I mentioned that over 95 per cent of the increase in population is occurring in those burgeoning and increasingly undesirable centres of population. Those areas also are the centre of productivity. 
I think we well realise that we need a balanced program of decentralisation and development, not only in our outer metropolitan areas but in our country areas as well. I remind members of the the Opposition that it was the New South Wales Government and its Department of Decentralisation and Development which brought forward many welcome initiatives, most successful initiatives in the field of decentralisation. They were brought forward under a LiberalCountry Party Coalition Government. Victoria also has a very sound record in developing a decentralisation program. 
This subject needs to be approached on 3 fronts. We should not concentrate solely and completely on growth centres. Firstly, we should maintain or, in some cases, restore equilibrium to country centres and towns which are declining in population and productivity. Secondly, we must rationalise the administration of government through a program of regionalisation such as has happened most successfully in New South Wales in many areas of administration such as education. Thirdly there is the creation of growth centres, the theory being that where we have a substantial input of funds we develop rapidly to a situation of self-generating growth. We are faced with the problems that the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  pointed out, problems of keeping young people in country towns and cities, of providing realistic employment opportunities, of transport, of communications and of post secondary education facilities. Decentralisation must be effective in order to alleviate these problems. 
However, I believe it is unwise to consider growth centres as the sole linchpin of our decentralisation effort. Looking at the estimates of the former Department of Urban and Regional Development for 1975-76, 1 think it is significant to realise the massive increase in public expenditure on urban and regional development. Between 1972-73 and 1975-76 it increased from $143m to $730m and most of that increase was on urban development, urban renewal, urban sewerage and water, urban housing and things like the National Estate. Of that $730m only $50m went to growth centres that were not on the seaboard- Albury-Wodonga, BathurstOrange and Monarto in South Australia. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood)  should look very seriously at the expenditure commitments that may be entered into on such a long term basis if we try to follow through the pattern of the expenditure proposals of the previous Government. 
Under the previous Government we saw excesses of spending on a multitude of feasibility studies and surveys; we saw a lack of consultation with people who were to be directly affected by growth centre proposals; we saw enormous increases in commitments on land purchases, as was just mentioned by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  We had a multitude of planners' dreams and consultants springing up from all over the place, and we had a bureaucratic expansion of commissions and authorities. I note that the honourable member for Corio referred to the Geelong Regional Development Authority as a substantial bureaucracy, or what would become a substantial bureaucracy. 
One of the things that concerns me about growth centre programs is the enormous cost of administering them and the rapid increase in bureaucratic empires that are associated with them. Under the previous Government we saw situations which were quite unusual and quite anomalous. On the one hand the previous Government would establish a commission such as the Cities Commission and then would find that it was not working correctly and would have to dismantle it, as was done with other commissions. We have seen some debacles associated with growth centre programs. I refer directly to the new city of Monarto which was ill-judged, ill-timed and illconceived. A large area of land was purchased and subsequently the scheme turned out to be a white elephant because the only way it could be populated was by the coercion of public servants. As a result I believe that Monarto is a monument to the hasty and ill-conceived programs of growth centre development upon which the previous Government embarked. 
This Government is committed to decentralisation but I believe it must be approached responsibly and cautiously. The Government should make sure that it is convinced that particular projects will have a realistic cost benefit result and that we will not squander public resources which we can ill afford at this time because of the economic situation we have inherited from the previous Government. I believe we must still consider the concepts of dispersed decentralisation as against solely selective decentralisation. I have seen many small factories in small country towns operating in a very viable fashion and making a substantial contribution to the economy of those towns. The Opposition, when in government, lost sight of the main secret of success in decentralisation. The most successful decentralisation ventures result from close cooperation between local government, farsighted, aggressive and innovative local government, and private industry, associated with a certain input from the public sector through sensible and rational loan support. 
We must create the right sort of environment for private industry to see a future in decentralisation, in setting up industries in country areas as well as in outer metropolitan areas. The last 3 years have not been conducive in any way whatsoever to providing those conditions to make private industry look at the possibilities of decentralising their operations. I object strongly to the idea that the only way in which we can decentralise is to create artificial very costly new cities, cities in which we are not sure that people will want to live, and which can be populated only by the forced relocation of public servants. I do not necessarily want to see  mini-Canberras  springing up all over this great country of ours. 
Growth centres are only part of our decentralisation policy. We are committed to decentralisation but it is important to see growth centres in an overall perspective. We must be very careful to make sure that projects and programs are justifiable, can be supported and are definitely conducive to an effective co-operation and close relationships between the public sector, local government, private industry and individuals. That is the only way in which effective decentralisation is going to be achieved in this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The discussion is now concluded. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence. In view of the huge losses of sheep from blowfly strike that will occur in the aftermath of the disastrous floods in northwest New South Wales unless shearing teams can be immediately transported to this area, will the Minister reconsider making appropriate Service aircraft, such as helicopters and short take-off and landing aircraft which are presently operating in the area, available for this purpose. Does the Minister agree that it is equally as important to save sheep from blowfly strike as it is to save them from starvation and drowning? Is the Minister aware that such a move could save hundreds of thousands of sheep in the area affected? Will the Government now, by approving the use of such aircraft, complement the New South Wales Government's support in covering 75 per cent of the cost of moving shearing teams by aircraft? 
I preface my question to the Minister for Primary Industry by reminding honourable members of the drastic effects that the strike by storemen and packers is having on woolgrowers' liquidity, on their ability to pay tax, interest and other commitments, on Australia's export earnings and on the principles of wage indexation. The dispute is based reportedly on the following demands: A reduction in wool bale weights; an $11.50 weekly wage rise; a 35 hour working week in wool dumping areas; additional sick pay and - 
I do not wish to go over many of the aspects of this Bill which have been referred to by other speakers. I welcome this Bill and some of the changes in it which again have been mentioned by previous speakers. I remind the House that education as a Commonwealth commitment is very big business. It is 10 per cent of total Budget outlays. At the 1975-76 figure of $l,908m it is larger than the defence outlay and is nearly as large as the Medibank outlay, or what is predicted will shortly be the Medibank outlay. There has been a 3-fold increase in allocations to schools, as mentioned in the Budget Speech of the then Treasurer last year. I would like to quote 2 segments of that speech. He proudly referred to the fact that in the first full year of office of the previous Government expenditure on education almost doubled, and in the next year it almost doubled again. He further drew attention to this record spending when he said: 
The remarkable quadrupling of the total education expenditure figures in just over 2 years has been only part of the record. Benefits in relation to the quality of education will continue to flow on a long term basis from the machinery we have established and the programs we have fostered. 
I believe that education is not solely a function of pouring unlimited amounts of money into this sector. I cannot agree with the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  who referred to the increase in the money supply that has been made available for education as being the sole attribute of the program. Let us examine some of the claims in the Budget Speech last year. Rather succinctly, the then Treasurer said: 
We have decided to abandon the triennial system and revert to an annual basis of funding. 
I think that was a most unfortunate move. It exhibited a rather typical lack of consultation between the Government at that time and education authorities, schools, staffs, students and administrators. It was somewhat reminiscent of the decision taken by the Prime Minister at that time who decided suddenly that the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education would be amalgamated. I remember being at a conference shortly after that decision had been taken. One of the most surprised people at that conference, it appeared to me, was the then Minister for Education, the honourable member for Fremantle. This decision to abandon the triennial program, as my colleague the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  pointed out, was an admission of the excessive program that the previous Government undertook, of the rapid inflation and of the problems that followed. That Government really said: 'We cannot afford to undertake a 3-year commitment in such a large expenditure area'. This stop-start type of policy created enormous problems. Contracts had to be suspended. Planning and development, both for new buildings and new courses, was thrown into chaos. 
I make a strong plea that we seriously consider at the earliest possible opportunity the restoration of triennial funding, bearing in mind the economic situation with which we must deal at the moment. The Treasurer at that time also mentioned the pronounced increases in expenditure on the school sector. It was certainly most welcome to see the amount of money made available, but it was not necessarily welcome to see how poorly it was managed. There was the centralist policy. We were bound up with red tape. We had to put on additional people, not only in the schools but also in the colleges, the universities and the State Public Service to record the statistics. We had duplication of effort. Unfortunately both proposed amendments to this Bill revert to that centralist policy which I think we should be very keen to avoid. One of the things that eventuated was the rigidity with which funds were administered and tied up. We had a ridiculous and anomalous situation in which 1 -teacher schools with 15 children could easily buy a 10-listening post audio-instruction unit, colour television monitors or closed circuit television when there was no money to install an extra toilet or to repair a leaking roof in a shelter shed. We had a situation in which we provided carpets to schools with no floors. 
I applaud the flexibility in this Bill- the flexibility to move funds within States and between States and, most importantly, of being able to move funds from capital programs to recurrent programs. I think there have been many instances in which we have seen a great need to be able to do that. One of the problems that I think was engendered was that the parent and citizen associations of the schools were given no incentive to support and assist their schools because it was so easy to obtain money or equipment. In many cases the equipment was not needed or was unduly expensive. The associations would quite willingly and enthusiastically have found money for that equipment. 
While I am referring to the subject of schools, I make the point that I was very pleased to see that the Schools Commission, in its triennial report for 1976-78, made considerable mention of the needs and demands of country education, particularly as they relate to the philosophy of equality of opportunity. The Commission recognised the disadvantages of travel and living in the country. It recognised that small country schools have particular problems and that the staff in those schools have problems, particularly with housing, isolation and often being inexperienced. It recognised many of the situations in country areas where achievement levels are low, tertiary entry rates are low and career opportunities and employment opportunities often restrict the aspirations of students. 
I welcome the assistance which was given at that time- that assistance is being carried on by this Bill- particularly in such areas as the assistance for isolated children scheme,  per capita  grants and capital grants for teaching, library and laboratory facilities. But there is still a very serious problem in the non-government school sector, particularly in country areas. We must not forget that the non-government school sector accounts for 20 per cent of primary enrolments and 24 per cent of secondary enrolments. Many children in country areas have no option but to leave home to go to primary or secondary school. At the primary level they certainly receive some assistance with correspondence courses, but the situation becomes far more acute at the higher levels of secondary schooling. Students have the option of hostel accommodation, private lodging or boarding schools. 
The problems of country boarding schools are acute indeed. The capacity of parents to pay fees has declined enormously with the economic decline, particularly in the beef and wool industries. There has been a colossal escalation in wages and salaries. In fact, many country schools have gone out of business and others will go out of business either because they have to price themselves out of business or because they cannot meet their debts. The result is that children leave school early and strike problems of unemployment or their parents are forced to move. In many cases families are split up. My parents-in- law were a good case in point. My mother-in-law had to leave her home for many years to live in a town so that the children could go to school daily. There are many situations like this, where parents even are living in caravans in order to allow their children to go to school. 
I am not talking about the wealthy nongovernment schools. Incidentally, I am not too sure that there are any wealthy non-government schools left. Certainly some may have resources and bequests, but the recurrent or operating costs are becoming very high and these schools have no hidden support as many of the government schools have. For example, they do not have support for workers compensation or long service leave and they do not have government purchasing, insurance, printing and cleaning contracts. What is happening is that many of the nongovernment schools are dropping their boarding component. I believe that this has particularly severe implications for education in the country. The Catholic boarding schools also are facing an extremely acute situation. In my electorate is one of the many Marist Brothers colleges- the Red Bend College at Forbes. It draws students from Queensland right through to the Victorian border and out to Broken Hill and Tibooburra. I saw there recently that in a room measuring some 40 feet by 50 feet 37 third formers were accommodated in bunks. They had 4 wash basins, 2 showers, one toilet and one small area in which to look at a television set. In the corner was a tiny cubicle where one of the brothers slept. There are many situations like that in the country- particularly in the Catholic schools, which I think are in acute need of support. I would like to believe that the Government will give due recognition to the need for boarding and accommodation facilities when it next considers allocations for schools: 
I would like to make some mention of teachers colleges. We have seen a major increase in the number of teachers being trained and coming on to the market. I welcome this. I also welcome the move to longer, more professional courses, particularly special teacher education courses. With some reservations, I welcome the increased pay and conditions which the teaching profession has been able to achieve. However, I have some serious doubts that the quality of teaching and the quality of education in our schools have improved. We have been inundated with a multitude of audiovisual gadgets which in some cases have contributed greatly to education and in other cases have not. School leavers appear to be no better off, if not worse off, in their command of language, literacy, numeracy, basic communication skills and basic skills in learning. We have the rather anomalous situation of colleges and universities providing remedial 
English courses and bridging courses in communication and learning skills to try to make up the deficiency which apparently originates in our school system. 
Professor Barcan from the Faculty of Education at the University of Newcastle, in a recent issue of  Quadrant,  expressed serious doubts that our educational standards in schools have increased. He ventured to suggest that they have declined. He also pointed out the large proportion of teachers with little experience and he pointed out certain aspects of dissatisfaction with the school system among members of the teaching profession. I cannot agree with some of the attitudes taken by the teaching profession. I believe that its members are doing a lot of damage to their professional image- an image of which I thought they should be proud- by their attitude, their dress, their approach to their students and their relationship with their students. It is a serious situation when the professionalism of teachers is being looked upon with severe doubt by the public at large. I do not believe that the public at large has had an increasing respect for the teaching profession as a result of either the previous Government's policies or the vast amount of money that has been poured into education, and teacher education in particular. In fact one State Minister, a colleague of mine, tells me he regards his portfolio of education as being one of Minister for industrial relations. 
The previous Government also was proud of its record in providing free tertiary education, abolishing fees and taking over the full financial responsibility for tertiary education. I believe that this action again has brought about an attitude that everything is on the government. There were inequalities of opportunity amongst tertiary students, and I believe that the schemes brought in did something to rectify that situation. But one of the problems which arose from them was that we saw a certain pampered elite of young people who believed that they could do anything they liked and who sought government handouts for everything. The students at the Riverina College of Advanced Education are on strike at the moment over travel allowances. Students are demanding free subscriptions to unions, student representative councils and even sports unions; they are requiring free child minding facilities; and so it goes on. I do not believe that it is healthy to engender this attitude either in school leavers or in people undertaking tertiary education when they are about to achieve a qualification which I regard as a privilege- I may be old fashioned- rather than as a sacrosanct right. 
We have seen increased academic salaries. I agree that there are many dedicated, hard working people in the profession, both in schools and in tertiary institutions. However, there are many who are typical of the clock watchers, people who are not prepared to work after hours, people who are critics but not contributors and people who go down to the poisoned waterhole- the corner pub- and criticise the system, criticise other staff, criticise students and criticise the public, but never in my experience criticise themselves. Particularly in the tertiary area, exorbitant demands for wages and salaries have been made. People at the professorial level expect to be paid a base salary of $32,000 a year, and a lecturer- not even a senior lecturer- expects to be paid a salary of $20,000 a year. I know of many instances, as will other members, in which people holding professorial positions have minute departments, relatively small budgets, only a handful of postgraduate students, and they have not taught for years. I do not believe that the level of their responsibility, or their standing in the community for that matter, demands such a salary- a salary which, I might add, the Academic Salaries Tribunal saw fit not to grant. Salaries are in fact killing education at all levels. In universities and colleges salaries comprise 80 per cent to 85 per cent of the total recurrent budgets, and in schools some 90 per cent. In many schools, such as those disadvantaged schools in the country about which I was talking previously, salaries represent 95 per cent of their total recurrent budgets. Salaries and inflation are causing great strains on our educational system. 
I support this Bill. It continues the program initiated by the previous Government. It provides some flexibility and transferability. It unties the grants which in many cases were stifling the State administrations. The Bill will make a start on reducing overlap and duplication. It also will make a start on restoring State rights and responsibilities. I agree with the provisions dealing with and the ideas behind community involvement, parental participation and a much closer identification with local issues and needs of schools. But in my opinion education funding is not a sacred cow. The education honeymoon and the open chequebook situation must be looked at very carefully. All sectors of education, whether they comprise administrators, staff, students or State governments for that matter, must act responsibly. They must contribute to the system and they must work towards a planned and rational development of education at all levels. I support the Bill. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government intend to have the Australian Assistance Plan continue in principle. 
If so, will full funding, administrative and capitation grants continue for regions in 1 976-77. 
If not, will some funding of regions be forthcoming to enable the minimum administrative requirements for the plan to continue in 1976-77. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What is the estimated cost per kilometre of the standard gauge railway from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. 
Who is responsible for constructing the line, and what funds are allocated for this purpose in 1975-76. 
My question is addressed to the  Deputy  Prime Minister. In view of the continuing depressed state of the beef industry and the concern of people in that industry, can he indicate what progress has been made in obtaining export contracts for Australian beef? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Can he identify the conditions under which claims for RED Scheme projects, particularly those involving wage escalations, will be considered for settlement. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the very serious situation regarding the spread of blackberries in many areas, and how increasingly difficult and costly it is becoming to control effectively blackberries by herbicidal treatments. 
Can the Minister detail what research programs are being undertaken on alternative forms of blackberry control in Australia. 
Do the biological control methods developed in Chile have any applicability in Australia. 
If so, is any developmental research on this method being undertaken in Australia. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
-Yes it will be good. This is one of the few times I agree with the Opposition. I rise to speak as one of those members who has been presented with such dire warnings from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  that the Government's growth centre policy will be electorally disastrous for members in electorates such as Macquarie and Calare. I suggest that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition inform himself of the attitudes in those electorates. I assure him that I have not received one letter since I have been a member telling me how electorally important it is that a growth centre be established in the Bathurst-Orange area, or one telling me how disastrous it will be if the policies of the previous Government are not followed to the final letter as laid down. However, I have had a large number of letters expressing great concern about inflation, unemployment, duplication, wastage and centralism- so many of the aspects of the disastrous situation that we inherited on 1 3 December. 
I was also intrigued with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition's reference to the fact that only one member of the National Country Party was in the House while he was making his speech. I took considerable interest to see how many members of the Opposition were in the House when the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition rose to speak and when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  rose to speak on what I thought they had put forward as a matter of public importance. In fact only one member of the Opposition apart from those who were speaking in the debate was in his seat in the chamber. By the time the Leader of the Opposition was half way through his speech some other members had trickled in. I ask: Is this indicative of the fact that this matter is not a matter of public importance? Is it indicative of the fact that in the view of their colleagues the Leader and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition are not worth listening to? Is it indicative of the fact that the major initiatives so proudly upheld by the Department of Urban and Regional Development, including the growth centres, no longer are of any consequence? 
I give full marks to the persistence of the Opposition in raising this issue, which is a similar issue to the one raised on 17 March concerning the failure to announce a policy on growth centres. My contribution at that time pointed out the desperate need for decentralisation in Australia and that there is far too much concentration of population and productivity in the metropolitan areas and on the seaboard of this country.  (Quorum formed).  As I was saying, I support the idea of growth centres as one form of decentralisation but not necessarily as the only form of decentralisation. I would point out that there have been some examples in my opinion of maladministration, bad planning, insufficient investigation as to the most effective form of decentralisation and in particular the most effective form of establishing growth centres. I point to the figures that the previous Government specified for the growth centre of Monarto in South Australia. The figures are interesting. In 1973-74, $4.5m was allocated; in 1974-75, $5.4m was allocated and in 1975-76, barely half a million dollars was allocated. What happened? The  Chairman  of the Monarto Development Corporation has reputedly claimed that he is resigning because he has nothing to do. A large area of land has been acquired on which it seems unlikely that any major growth centre development will occur for many years. 
I believe that these are the sorts of mistakes that we should avoid and I also believe that we must consider other forms of decentralisation in association with growth centres. Let us also look at just how important was this pet development of growth centres of the previous Administration. In fact a measly 8.2 per cent of the total allocation in the Department of Urban and Regional Development budget was allocated for this purpose and there was virtually a nil allocation to any other forms of decentralisation. The previous Administration did nothing for decentralisation in the broader terms except to try to stifle and kill rural, regional and private industry to the extent that there was no incentive for them to leave the major metropolitan centres to go into the regional areas. I commend the statement by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development,  Senator Greenwood,  for what I believe is a balanced and rational dissertation on this Government's present attitude towards growth centres. I remind honourable members in the Opposition that it is not the Treasury which makes the decisions; it is the Cabinet and those on this side of the Parliament. 
I also remind honourable members that the Minister made a strong point of saying that decentralisation, including growth centres, must be a combined effort and a co-operative effort between local government and private industry. Until private industry sees some prospect in this country, it will be impossible, in my opinion, to achieve decentralisation solely through publicly funded and supported growth centres. I have examples where on a small scale private industry in my electorate has made substantial progress. 
A small assembly factory in Wellington is now employing a substantial number of people after being in operation for a very short period of time. In Orange the city council, in co-operation with private industry, a large construction company, is providing an office development which will provide over 500 places for office workers. All it is asking government to do is to provide guaranteed tenancy either with new departments such as the State has done with the Soil Conservation Service or with a rationalisation of departments and agencies that are already within that city. This type of development is worthy of wholehearted support. 
Whilst selective decentralisation is a relatively new experiment in this country, it is one that should be perservered with. I am aware of the colossal economic restraints under which we are now working. I am aware of the dangers of committing ourselves to long term programs of expenditure, but I believe also that this Government will take a balanced, rational perspective not only on growth centres but on decentralisation measures right across the board. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the present status and purpose of the Commonwealth Foreign Investment Committee. 
Does the committee have significant powers through the exchange control mechanism to direct foreign companies to establish operations in Australia away from the major centres of Sydney and Melbourne. 
Can the committee be developed as a major vehicle for national decentralisation in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the accelerated office building program initiated in 1 975 continue: if so: what projects und"er this program arc currently being considered. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the advanced state of planning for office development that has been achieved by the Orange City Council in association with private sponsors. 
If so. will the Minister consider the possibility of rationalising Commonwealth office space requirements in Orange in association with the City Council's planned development. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is he concerned that for some years now statistics have shown that farmers are an ageing and numerically declining sector in our community? Is he aware that very few young people or their parents see a viable and secure future in farming? Can he give any indication of progress towards providing incentives to young people to go into farming, either as owner operators or as career managers? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Bearing in mind the need for restraint in public expenditure and the provisions in both the Postal Services Act and the Telecommunications Act, whereby the Government is required to make good any discrepancy between the revenue from tariffs and the operating costs, can the Minister assure the House that both Commissions have been required to abide by their operating charter which relates to the provision of efficient services at rates and charges as low as practicable? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) Is a career in farm management, either as an owneroperator or as an employed manager, recognised as an appropriate occupation for training under the NEAT Scheme. 
Are courses in farm management offered by agricultural colleges recognised as appropriate retraining courses for persons wishing to enter the rural industry. 
How many applications for farm management training under the NEAT Scheme were (a) received and (b) rejected in 1974, 1975 and 1976, and what were the main reasons for rejection. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Transport concerning funding for rural local roads in New South Wales. Can the 
Minister indicate whether the New South Wales Government will abide by his request that the additional $ 11.3m granted be used for rural roads? In view of the very serious deterioration of rural local roads can he indicate the proportion of that amount which he considers should be used for rural local roads? 
-Tonight I should like to draw the attention of the House to the effects of wage rises in rural industry. I shall cite 2 examples. The first is an instance of an 18^-year-old boy to whom I spoke recently. He was working in an abattoir. After an in-service training course of 3 weeks or so he went to the meat boning floor of that abattoir.  His  base wage was $196 per week. Overtime of $20 or $30 brought his total wage to about $210 to $220 a week. For the last 4 months the average working time in that abattoir was 32 hours a week. Yet that 1 8  Vi  -year-old boy complained to me very strongly about how underpaid he was for what he regarded as strenuous work requiring long hours. 
I cannot repeat it in this venerable chamber. Another example is the effect of unemployment benefit on the availability of casual labour, particularly in intensive agriculture industries such as horticulture. The federal award wage for a station hand with 2 years experience or more who is capable of undertaking the tasks required of him is $1 12.50 
Eer week. One man sees fit- I can hardly blame im- to apply for unemployment benefit and obtain $68.50 a week as a married man. The allowance for his 3 children brings his total unemployment benefit to $9 1 a week. I put it to the House that there is little incentive for that man to go out and look for employment when, in fact, by working he is getting an advantage of only $20 a week from which he has to account for his travelling time and travelling costs. 
The more serious situation, I think, is the attitude that has been engendered in so many people towards work, towards productivity. There is a very serious mentality problem in this regard. I recently spoke to some school leavers who were convinced that they should be eligible for unemployment benefit immediately they left school if they could not get jobs. In fact, some advocated that they should be eligible for unemployment benefits during the school holidays between school terms. We have one of the highest average wages in the world. We have had one of the highest increases in wage rises and there is very little to show for it in productivity. In fact, in many industries, productivity is declining. We have out-priced ourselves from world markets because of this mentality and attitude engendered and supported so much by the previous Administration. Labour in agriculture is virtually a dying concept not only in terms of its availability but also in terms of its quality. The labour intensive industries, for example, the horticultural industries, are in dire straits from the point of view of getting suitable labour. I believe that we have a vast job ahead of us to try to counter this attitude and this cash hand-out mentality that has developed over the last 3 years. 
I think that the previous  speaker-  the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)-  brought a most enlightening and entertaining vaudeville element into this debate. I understand from most impeccable sources that he is suffering from the disability of having one crushed leg. I think that we should recognise that the excruciating pain from which he is suffering may have clouded his vision somewhat as to the substance of this Bill and the substance of this debate. I have noticed in standing order 60 that, by the indulgence of the House, an honourable member who is unable conveniently to stand by reason of sickness or infirmity may be permitted to speak while sitting. At one stage I was so filled with compassion that I nearly moved that that concession be granted to the honourable member. 
I think it is pertinent and relevant that I should return to the substance of the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill. I support the Bill and oppose the amendment. The Bill gives effect to the allocation of a total of $452m to the States under the Loan Council program for 1976-77. It represents an interest free non-repayable grant covering a third of the Loan Council program for 1976-77. It represents an interest free nonrepayable grant covering a third of the Loan Council program, being in total $ 1,356m for the current financial year. The Loan Council program is a major source of funds for capital works in the States. It provides assistance against debt charges and non-revenue producing works, such as schools. As such, in spite of what some previous speakers have said, I do consider it to be a significant contributor to State finances. The Bill also provides the States with the opportunity freely to apply these grants as they choose, which is unlike the situation under the previous Administration in relation to which there were substantial strings and disabilities attached to such grants. 
The Bill is indeed consistent with our federalism policy, the most significant component of which is Stage 1 of the tax sharing formula, whereby an increase of 2 1 per cent on last year's allocation has been made in this Budget. This is one of the most significant developments that have occurred in Commonwealth-State relations since Federation. It provides a guaranteed base for funding for the States and alleviates the undignified scramble and hassle over funds that we have seen regularly over the years at Premiers Conferences. The States will in fact receive $93m more than they did in 1975-76 under the former Government's formula, including the increased betterment factor, which would have been 3 per cent. Overall, the allocations to the States under the tax sharing formula represent 33.6 per cent of the personal income tax collections. That is a highly significant figure. It is the largest proportion of tax collections in the Budget. I would agree wholeheartedly with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  on the vicious principle. In fact, the vicious principle is embodied in stage 2 of the tax sharing formula about which he said- or his mentor said- that those who pay should also have to collect. I think we can compliment the NSW Premier,  Mr Wran.  Rather we should have been able to bring that to his notice during his pre-election campaign. 
Another component of the federalism formula is the provision of specific purpose payments under section 96 grants. These cover, of course, a wide variety of areas such as education, health, homes for the aged, housing, industry assistance, etc. There has been over recent years a very substantial increase in special purpose grants. In 1974-75 this increase amounted to about 90 per cent and in 1975-76 about 40 per cent. However, under our federalism arrangements, these extremely forward looking and most significant arrangements, it is not the Government's policy to dictate to the States in the minute detail that we saw under the previous Administration. We believe that there has been excessive duplication and wastage. It is relevant to go back to the Prime Minister's statement at the June 1973 Premiers Conference. He said: 
From now on we will expect to be involved in the planning of the function in which we are financially involved. We believe that it would be irresponsible for the national Government to content itself with simply providing funds without being involved in the process by which priorities are met and by which expenditures are planned and by which standards are met. 
However, it went a lot further than that. It went a lot further than simply being involved in the process by which priorities are met. In fact, we saw a situation developing in which the Australian Government in Canberra did all in its power to remove many of the sovereign and constitutional powers of the States as part of an insidious campaign, a declared campaign, to destroy the functions and powers of the States. The centralisation of government power in Canberra can be gauged by examining the following 4 matters: the Labor Government's control over revenue raising resources, especially income tax; its control and tying up of Federal grants for a variety of purposes; its takeover of traditional areas of State responsibility; and its moves under the guise of regionalism to discount the power and rightful responsibilities of the States. 
There has been some criticism by various commentators and the States of the 5 per cent increase in the Loan Council program of 1976-77. It is very easy to make the Commonwealth the continual whipping post of the States, which continually scream and look readily to the Commonwealth for excuses for their own inefficiencies or their own inadequacies. The States must accept responsibility for economic recovery and reduction in inflation, in partnership with the Commonwealth. We have heardand I indeed welcome- statements by the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  that he is prepared to give the Budget a go in the interests of both New South Wales and Australia. We have seen Commonwealth outlays to the States increase in 1975-76 by 30 per cent, compared with an increase in other Budget outlays of 17 per cent. The annual growth rate in the States in 1 975-76 was in excess of 20 per cent, far in excess of Commonwealth growth rates. In fact, it is somewhat ironic that many of those States that are complaining bitterly now are the ones which during the recent election campaign made wild statements as to their financial position. This does not line up with the tenor of the arguments they are putting now. 
Another major platform of this Government's federalism policy, and a unique and innovative platform, is the direct funding of local government. This is in fact the first time that local government has direct access to the central tax pool. The allocation in this financial year of $140m is 75 per cent higher than it was in the previous year, when $80m was allocated. The significant factor is that these grants are untied. This level of funding is equivalent to about 1.6 per cent of personal income tax collections. This figure is not as high as the Australian Council of Local Government Associations would like to see; nevertheless it relates to about 20 per cent of rate revenue collections. It more than covers the rate of inflation. It is hoped that this will allow local government rates to be held and stabilised to some extent. As I said earlier, this is an untied funding allocation, unlike many of the allocations by the previous Government. Under the previous Government we went through an extraordinary situation of finding so many different schemes under which funds could be obtained from the Commonwealth Government. There was the Area Improvement Program, the Australian Assistance Plan, the Program of Capital Assistance for Leisure Facilities, the Regional Employment Development scheme, the Regional Organisations Assistance Program and a host of others. No wonder some enterprising journalists decided to publish a book on how to get money out of the government. Possibly the publishers will have large stocks of the book which they cannot sell at the moment. 
The Commonwealth has undertaken to borrow on behalf of local government and also to grant directly to local government and so by-pass the States. Of course, this was so under the previous Government. Honourable members will remember that this was put to a referendum in 1 974 and was lost. I think it was indicative of the creeping centralism and the desire by the previous Government to take over most of the functions of the States and certainly many of the functions of local government. I wonder how long it would have been before the Commonwealth Government would have been looking at how it could become involved in garbage collection, licensing dogs or some other minute detail that is traditionally and responsibly the role of local government. 
A further aspect of the federalism policy is the creation of an advisory council for intergovernmental relations. It is this council which will ensure ready co-operation and collaboration between the 3 tiers of government. It will pay due recognition to the importance and the role of local government in the 3 -tiered system. Regrettably, I believe that local government possibly will not be as well represented on this advisory council as it should be. Of the total of 19 members on that council, local government will have three. I believe the Premiers should pay due regard to this and allow a higher representation, either directly or indirectly through State representatives of local government. A further point of concern is that apparently the Premiers at the last Premiers Conference were not particularly in agreement with the idea that local government be allowed independently to initiate items for the agenda of the council for intergovernmental relations and thought that initiatives would have to come through the Premiers Conference. If this is so I deplore it, as it is in fact downgrading the rightful role, responsibility and representation of local government on that council. 
I think it is worthwhile to pause and to consider some of the problems of local government, particularly the problems that have arisen in rural areas and for rural councils. The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  brought to the attention of the House just recently the terrific difficulties that local government is facing in relation to its capacity to raise rate revenue from people who have been extremely hard hit by the current rural economic situation. He also pointed out present injustices whereby many people utilising local government facilities do not have to pay one cent towards rate revenue. I believe that a new system of rating must be examined and introduced as a matter of some urgency, particularly for rural councils. The expectations of the community in relation to local government have risen enormously. New fields have been opened up, whether they be in the provision of welfare, social services or paramedical services, or in the field of recreation. Local government, of course, has a major role to play in road construction and road maintenance. In New South Wales particularly that has become more significant since in many areas railway stations have been closed and railway spur lines and networks shut off. The funding for rural local roads is in a desperate situation, and it is a matter that I believe should be canvassed further in this Parliament. To conclude, I believe that the provisions of the Bill before the House constitute an integral component of our federalism approach. The Bill complements the tax sharing facility to the States and the facility of specific purpose grants. I therefore wholeheartedly reject the amendment and support the Bill in its entirety. 
-I rise to support the Budget and to oppose the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  This is the first Budget brought down by this Government. It is a budget that keeps faith with the electorate. It is a budget that upholds the undertakings made by the Government to the electorate. It is a budget for recovery and confidence and, above all, it is a budget that is responsible. It indicates that this Government is prepared to exercise restraint, honesty and competence in its economic management. It is a budget which has been received very well by the media. It has been received very well by the people in my electorate. With a great sigh of relief many have said to me: 'Thank goodness, now we can settle down to real restoration of the economy and sanity in the nation '. I have not received one serious complaint in my electoral office as a result of this Government's Budget. 
A certain period has elapsed since the Budget was presented and I would have imagined that if people were concerned about it they would have come forward immediately. I should like to congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Cabinet. I should also like to give due appreciation to the Treasury and officers of other departments that have been responsible for framing the Budget. The Budget confirms the judgment of the Australian people. On 13 December they overwhelmingly denied the Labor Government in an unprecedented swing away from socialism and its grandiose reforms, away from economic incompetence, away from deceitful dealings and away from big brother government. This Government has a record majority of 55 seats. This majority was brought home only too well in a recent division in this House- a division which I might add was brought about by the Opposition but the Opposition could muster no more than 1 8 members, which is half its strength. Despite the overwhelming vote of the Australian people and the electoral massacre of the Labor Party, the Leader of the Opposition has displayed unparalleled effrontery, stubbornness and incredible arrogance. The Leader of the Opposition blamed his Government's defeat on a temporary aberration. He blamed it on Australia's geographical isolation. In the  National Times  this week an interviewer asked  Mr Whitlam: 
Am I correct in assuming then that you don't interpret the defeat as amounting to the electorate 's rejection of the Labor Government 's programs? 
The Leader of the Opposition, with his characteristic modesty, said: 
In no way whatsoever. The people were only just beginning to see the benefits of those programs. I interpret the result of last December as a one-off verdict flowing from 2 factors: One, the election took place half-way through our term. Secondly, Australia's isolation from comparable countries enabled conservatives to assert that Australia's economic difficulties were exceptional and due to local factors alone. 
I find that statement incredible. It is incredible in that I believe the Leader of the Opposition implicitly believes it himself. Likewise, in his reply to the Budget and in his speech today, the Leader of the Opposition showed no recognition of any of the follies that his Government perpetrated. He showed not the slightest doubt about his policies, his programs, his manner of government or the manner of his leadership. He exhibits a backward-looking vision of grandeur with grandiloquent rhetoric, dire and unsubstantiated predictions of disaster and business bashing. The Leader of the Opposition having presided over the Government which got it all wrong in the first place and produced the mess from which we are now emerging, can gain few friends from the inflated pretence that he had just started to get it right at the end and that the attempt of the Treasurer to produce a solution at long last can bring only disaster. The great weakness of the Leader of the Opposition 's speech on the Budget was its failure to recognise that the Budget tried to do what the coalition parties were elected to do- to fix up the economy, to cut government spending and reduce taxes. In the debate on the matter of public importance this morning the Leader of the Opposition claimed that all promises had been broken by this Government. He displayed sheer effrontery to claim that the Prime Minister and this Government had deceived the people of Australia and that they had squandered and abused the trust given to this Government in its enormous electoral mandate. What arrant nonsense! Does he expect the Australian people to believe that? Does he expect the Australian people to believe that he can lead the Opposition back to government? Does he expect them to accept that he would do it all over again if his party were returned to government? 
Let us look briefly at the record of the Labor Government. Let us examine what the Leader of the Opposition asks us to accept again. First, I refer to the enormously inflationary deficit that contributed so greatly to the increased interest rates which we have experienced. In 1973-74 the deficit was $290m. In 1974-75 it was $2,567m and in 1975-76 there was a budgeted deficit of $2,800m. It was soon realised and recognised that that deficit figure would be far exceeded partly due to the excessive expenditure on aspects such as unemployment. In fact, the deficit outlook for 1975-76 was more like $4,500m. It was this new government's unenviable task to try to correct that, which it has done by a review of spending and by sensible cutbacks in Public Service growth. The result has been that for the first time since 1968-69 outlays were lower than budgeted. The deficit has been held to $3,585m and in 1976-77 it is expectd that the deficit will be reduced further to $2,608m. Let us look at Government expenditure overall. In 1974-75 we saw an enormous increase of 46 per cent in Government expenditure; in 1975-76 the figure was 22 per cent and I am pleased to see that in 1976-77 through sensible policies this Government will be able to hold Government expenditure to an 11.3 per cent increase. This is a remarkable achievement in 9 months. It will allow the private sector to recover- that sector which employs 75 per cent of the work force. 
Let us turn to inflation, probably the greatest problem that Australia has seen in its history. When Labor came to power the inflation rate was of the order of 4Vi per cent a year, when it went out it was of the order of 14 per cent a year. What were the results? Savings and the capacity to save were seriously eroded. Persons such as the aged person, pensioners, the unemployed and those on fixed incomes were seriously affected by inflation. Industries which could not pass on costs, particularly rural industries, also were seriously affected. I should like to remind this House of the words of  Sir John  Crawford, that most eminent of Australia's agricultural economists, who recently reminded us that inflation is the No. 1 problem for our rural industries. This Budget will reduce inflation by the middle of next year to below 10 per cent. That in itself is a remarkable achievement. 
Inflation has been fueled by uncontrolled and unrealistic wage rises- wages and wage claims that are out of all proportion to productivity. Some honourable members no doubt will have seen the recent publication by the Institute of Public Affairs. It shows that in the last 3 years wages for process workers in Australia more than doubled, that our wages are among the highest in the world and that our labour costs over the 3 years between 1972 and 1975 have increased at an annual rate far in excess of that in most other countries. For example, the increase in hourly labour rates in the United States of America has been less than one per cent; in Canada the rate increased by 4 per cent; in Japan by 20 per cent and in Australia by 26 per cent. But we must also balance this with the increase in productivity. Again Australia's record has been dismal. In Japan average productivity increase per year has been over this period of time of the order of 10 per cent. Australia's has been a dismal 2V4 per cent. Australia was in grave danger of not surviving in a competitive world; it was in grave danger of not being able to earn foreign exchange through exports and it was in grave danger of not being able to extract the foreign capital and investment that are so essential for the development of our national resources. 
Let us look at business. Under Labor 'profit' became a dirty word. Labor recognised that the private sector employed 75 per cent of the work force and yet it perpetuated its time honoured pastime of business bashing. Profits create investment, expansion and more jobs. Profits do go to workers. It is a fallacy to say that only wages go to workers and profits go to businessmen. Many wage earners of course have investments in shares and receive dividends- or at least they did prior to Labor corning to office. Wage earners have insurance policies and contribute to superannuation funds. These companies and funds in turn are the biggest investors in company shares. So their dividends determine the viability of the funds and the size of bonuses and pensions that they are able to pass on to contributors. Let us not forget that companies also pay tax- in fact at a rate of 42 per cent- and that shareholders also pay tax on their dividends. This in turn provides a major component of government revenue so that government can provide services in the areas of education, health and welfare and the other multitude of services that a government is expected to provide. Company profits are retained to expand plant and equipment, to provide jobs, to increase productivity and to provide the basis for improvement in our standard of living. 
The sooner unions realise this the better. We have seen a period of continual disputes, whether it be on the waterfront, in the transport industries or in the communication services. I believe that these disputes are largely counterproductive, not only to national productivity and hence to jobs and wages, but also to the unionists. We only have to look at the recent situation where one caravan manufacturing company stood down 800 workers as a result of not being able, due to the waterfront dispute, to get its inputs and requirements to keep going. 
Union disputes and industrial unrest have extremely grave consequences for our export industries. Australia will survive economically only if it has strong and viable export industries, which are primarily the agricultural export industries and those involving minerals and energy resources. Yet at this time we have great difficulty in competing on world markets because of our internal cost structures and because we cannot guarantee to supply our exports reliably. In fact, we cannot guarantee even to get our exports onto the wharves or onto the ships so they can go to the importing countries. Only today Japan has said that it cannot necessarily guarantee to continue to rely upon Australia as a source of meat or wool, primarily due to industrial disputes and union activity. We now see a union threatening on a political basis to place a black ban on New Zealand trade- a trade which is very much in our favour and a trade with one of our great allies and one of our major trading partners. 
The rural sector is extremely hard pressed. Farm incomes are below the minimum wage, let alone coming anywhere near the average wage. The rural sector has been very hard hit by interest rates and has been crippled by high input costs, mainly as a result of inflation. Wage costs have increased enormously and now labour in agriculture is becoming a thing of the past. Product prices, due to both unstable markets and our own high internal cost-price structure, have been such that we have not been able to compete adequately on world markets. Coupled with this we have been through a period of disastrous drought, particularly in the southern areas. I quote again from the  National Times  article to which I referred earlier. The Leader of the Opposition was asked: 
Is there a need for the Labor Party to revise its attitude towards the rural sector and country areas generally? 
The Leader of the Opposition was reported to have replied: 
No. The Labor Party has been basically right in its attitude to rural industry. 
The Labor Party was so basically right that it no longer has a representative in a major rural electorate. It was so basically right that it has only one member in each of the great rural States of Queensland and Western Australia. It is not even represented in Tasmania and the Northern Territory. So much for Labor's policy being basically right for rural industry. 
This Budget will restore Australia to its rightful place in world trade. It will restore confidence to the private sector. It will encourage investment in and the development of our national resources and it will protect low income familes, the aged, the pensioners and the disabled. It will provide incentives to individuals through reduced taxation and through a wide variety of other measures. It will provide incentives to business, small and large alike. Despite the dire predictions of the Opposition, it will restore employment. It is somewhat ironic that the Opposition has a new found concern for unemployment. Its regime saw unemployment rise threefold to 330 000 people. 
This figure would have been even higher if we had allowed for those employed under the illconceived, poorly administered and highly extravagant Regional Employment Development scheme. I believe that this Government has achieved remarkable results in a short 9 months. It will ensure that this country again becomes the sort of country that our forebears worked and fought for, a country that we can be proud to be part of and a country that we can proudly hand over to the next generation. I reject the amendment moved by the Opposition. I support the Bill wholeheartedly. 
Is the Treasurer aware of the claim made by the New South Wales Local Government Association and the Shires Association of New South Wales that the Commonwealth contribution to local government in that State has shown a massive net decrease totalling $60m from 1975-76 to 1976-77? Are these 2 local government bodies in New South Wales justified in making this claim? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is the Minister aware that an Australian company, in conjunction with the Iranian Government, has announced contracts to supply 75 000 tonnes of sheep carcasses to the Middle East over the next 5 years and a minimum of 3 million live wether sheep a year? Do these contracts indicate a substantial potential market for Australia's primary produce in Iran and other Middle East countries? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Transport. I do so as the member of this House representing the area where undoubtedly the best apples in the world are grown. For the information of honorable members who may not know where that is, it is Orange in New South Wales. Is the Minister aware that Tasmanian apples can be quite satisfactorily shipped to mainland markets as dry cargo rather than refrigerated cargo? Can he assure the House that Tasmanian apple growers will not enjoy a competitive advantage by shipping apples to Sydney, Melbourne or Brisbane under the freight equalisation arrangements as they may apply to dry cargo space? 
-In speaking to the appropriations for the Department of Science I would like to make some comments on some of the areas for which those appropriations are sought, the first being the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The CSIRO, of course, has enjoyed very many notable achievements in its long history in this country and has provided enormous benefit not only to rural industry but also to many other sectors of industry in this country. Many people attempt to apply a cost-benefit type of analysis to the CSIRO which I think is unfair to the Organisation. One example of work carried out by the CSIRO is the development and application of the myxomatosis virus in the control of rabbits. It is easily seen that it is almost impossible to apply a value to the benefit that has accrued to the whole nation in respect of the work carried out by the CSIRO in this area. However, I support the Government's announcement that there will be an inquiry to cover the general philosophy, organisation and management structure of the Organisation, the efficiency of its research programs and its revenue raising potential. There is a need for continual review of institutions such as the CSIRO. I think it can generally be acceded that many sacred cows sometimes do become infertile and need to be culled. 
The appropriation also covers the Institute of Marine Science and particularly the new research vessel which has been commissioned for 1977-78 and the completion of laboratories in North Queensland in 1977. The Bureau of Meteorology, of course, is an organisation of specific interest to a person such as myself representing a rural electorate. Australia is a continent that is extremely vulnerable, in terms both of commerce and of its very livelihood, to weather conditions. Only in the last weekend we saw the disastrous effect that weather conditions can have in Canberra and Queanbeyan. 
I am pleased to see that Australia is participating in the global atmospheric research program, the so-called GARP program, which will involve the establishment of a satellite receiving station for the GARP satellite. Mention is also made of the Landsat program, which is an off-shoot of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration program in America. I would like to make a comment on this program because in my opinion it has particular relevance to rural industry. The United States has invited other countries to participate in the Landsat program. Participation in the program has been offered to Australia but to date Australia has not yet committed itself to providing a satellite receiving station. A Landsat satellite continuously scans the earth providing data on resources and the environment. Its products are extremely useful in resource evaluation, management, disaster assessment and mapping. A colossal amount of information can be gained from the Landsat program in respect of agriculture. This information has been used to scan continuously the state of crop growth in most countries. By this method some countries have gained, in my opinion, a pecuniary advantage by finding market outlets for their crops. 
The Landsat project, through its infra-red photography, can assess on a very large scale the metabolic status of many crops throughout the world. It can identify disease. It can also predict yields. I think these are matters that should be of particular interest to my colleagues the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  and the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  We should use this program to advantage to make sure that we can compete with the other major grain exporting countries that have this information. For the sake, I understand, of some Sim to $1.5m Australia could participate in that program. Further enormous benefit would be gained by the use of information in the areas of flood control, the placement of roads and the placement of water storages. Anyone who has seen the Landsat photographs of the Gulf country in Queensland during a time of flood would realise the enormous potential benefit of subscribing to that program. 
The appropriations also provide moneys for the shared commitment with the United Kingdom of the construction and operation of the Anglo-Australian telescope at Coonabarabran in New South Wales. I point out to honourable members that the CSIRO radiotelescope at Parkes in my electorate has become notable only in the last week for some leading investigations and research findings of world importance. I am referring particularly, of course, to the recently discerned quasar. It is interesting to speculate that in many cases the Parkes radio-telescope is operating on the fringe limits of observation as the bodies the operators wish to observe are moving away faster than the speed of light so that it is not possible to detect them. 
I would like to spend some time discussing the broader subject of Antarctica. Australia has a long and illustrious history both in exploration and in research in that continent, but many consider now that Australia's role in Antarctica is at the cross-roads. The appropriations provide for a holding situation as far as Australia's commitment to Antarctica is concerned. The appropriations cover a level of research activity in Antarctica which will be similar to that in the previous financial year. More importantly, the Government has instituted studies of Australia's longterm policy options in Antarctica as a necessary prelude to determining the level and nature of and arrangements for future programs. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  mentioned in his speech the move, now ratified, of the headquarters of the Antarctic Division to Hobart. I also mention that the Government has produced a green paper titled Towards New Perspectives for Australian Scientific Research in Antarctica'. Our policy in respect of Antarctica is at the cross-roads because many conditions and agreements under which Australia was a signatory to the 1959 treaty are now under challenge. These agreements related to territorial claims. They related to the basis on which research was conducted. They related to exploitation and the use of the Antarctic continent for both strategic and commercial purposes. Nations such as Sri Lanka have already challenged Australia's entitlement and territorial claims in the United Nations. A Russian base, Leningradskaya, has recently been completed within the Australian sector. Many nations are moving through research and actual operation to abort the provisions of the treaty in a number of areas. I shall refer to these briefly in the limited time available. Firstly, the resources of Antarctica are enormous. We have to look at Antarctica in terms of its potential for providing protein for the world. Antarctica has an enormous potential for this through its resources of krill the little shrimp that live in the Antarctica and sub-Antarctic waters. They are the shrimp on which the whale population thrived prior to being killed out. 
Yes. It has been estimated that an annual production of 200 million to 300 million tonnes could be supplied from this source. It is notable that a number of countries, particularly West Germany, Russia, Japan and Poland are doing oceanographic surveys of the size of krill resources in Antarctica. 
Other resources in the Antarctic which I do not have time to canvass at length include minerals and energy resources. Hydrocarbons have been found within the Antarctic continent and on the shores around it. Minerals such as iron and manganese have been found. Coal also has been found. We have to look at the ice itself as a potential resource, particularly in view of the fact that two-thirds of the world's fresh water is locked up in the continental ice cap. We have to look at the inherent dangers of not understanding fully the  status quo  of the ice cap in Antarctica. I refer, of course, to the possibility of climatic change causing an increase in the melt rate. This would, of course, have enormous implications for life as we know it in our seaboard countries. I think it is not sensational to speculate on what could happen in that continent if nuclear waste were to be stored there. I think we should look at the enormous value and benefit that we can obtain by participating effectively and strongly in the Antarctica program and providing the necessary finance grappling with some of the problems of transport.  1  refer particularly to the question whether we should build Antarctic vessels with our own resources. We should examine in very close detail what Australia's role, policy and commitment will be in the light of some of the challenges and changes that will face us in the near future as far as our involvement in the Antarctic continent is concerned. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say which non-Communist countries require persons receiving unemployment benefits to work on public projects providing they are physically capable. 
Are any of these countries signatories to the International Labour Organisation agreements which apparently prevent Australia from instituting such a scheme. 
3 ) What are the legal or other restrictions that prevent the enforced work of physically able persons receiving unemployment benefits in Austrafia 
I support the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill and the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill. I will not waste time by commenting on the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  These Bills provide for a major initiative- an initiative unique in the history of this country. They provide for an effective role- a constitutional rolefor the States and an effective and responsible role for local government under the 3-tier system of government in this country. These Bills provide the means by which this Government will be able to support a proper distribution of the powers and functions of government between those 3 spheres so that government may be responsive to the needs and preferences of the community and of individuals. Such a system of government can benefit from the input of local knowledge and talent and provide protection against the excessive concentration of power. 
The centralist philosophy of the former Whitlam Government was, of course, directly contrary to this philosophy in that it was the declared ambition of that Government to destroy the States. By the use of blatant or insidious means it sought to further its own centralist philosophy- to the detriment not only of the States but also of local government. Some minutes ago the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)-  I quote him as best I remember him -said that no policy has met with such universal resentment and condemnation as the new federalism policy of the Fraser Government. I believe that that quote is best applied to his record and to the record of his Government. I ask: If the Australian Labor Party's concept of federalism was so effective, where is its representation in this chamber from Queensland? It has only one representative. How many representatives does it have from Western Australia? Only one. How many representatives does it have from Tasmania? None. There are 36 tired old men sitting on the Opposition benches in this chamber. 
Where is the Labor Party's representation of the truly non-metropolitan areas- those electorates that are not dominated by a large mining or industrial centre? It has none. Where is its representation on the Canberra committee- the committee that has been appointed by the various local government organisations in the States to represent their views in this Parliament? It does not have any representation and it never has had any representation on that committee. It always has been people from the conservative side of politics- from the Liberal National Country Party side of this House- whom the local government organisations in the States have seen fit to invite to become their representatives in the Federal Parliament. 
Last night the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  had the temerity to say that Labor will be returned for its co-operative federalism. I only say that it was returned for its co-operative federalism- returned to the Opposition benches. That is where it will be kept for its co-operative federalism. 
Until its members all die out. Returning to these Bills I say firstly that the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill is most significant in that it provides for the provision of $643m in the current year- 1976-77- which is 2 1 per cent more than was provided in 1975-76 and which in fact represents an increase of $89m on what would have been given under the previous Government's formula. This, of course, is the first stage of the federalism approach- the second being that of providing the capacity to the States to impose their own surcharges or to grant their own rebates. This Bill guarantees that a set percentage-33.6 per centof the net personal income tax will be returned to the States. It provides that no less than that available in previous years will be available in absolute terms. 
The second Bill gives effect to the local government policy of this Government, which indicates that it has a very deep and genuine desire to give local government a real measure of independence and flexibility and to make it a genuine partner in our overall federal system. This Bill gives effect to the policy whereby untied grants to local government have been increased by 75 per cent from the grants of the previous year. It gives effect to a policy whereby, for the first time in our history, grants to local government are tied to a level of personal income tax. That level happens to be 1.52 per cent. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has indicated that he regards that as a minimum figure. 
The Bill gaurantees that local government will receive no less than it has received in previous years. It provides a  per capita  component that is set at a rninimum of 30 per cent and it gives the States the opportunity to provide their own flexibility, to provide their own knowledge and to provide an equalisation component of the balance. The States and the State grants commissions are being given the power to be flexible. We totally oppose the concept that the fount of all knowledge and wisdom lies in Canberra, as the previous Government considered to be the case. The Bill also provides for payments to the States to be made in a single, lump sum form. This will assist local government greatly in that it will avoid the need for bridging finance and will relieve local government of some of its liquidity problems. 
Let us look at some of the criticism of the legislation that was beaten up by the media last weekend and that has been very actively held to and grabbed by the Opposition. We have seen statements in the media that a major disputation is looming, that the new federalism policy is a sham and that the New South Wales Premier has called upon New South Wales senators to vote against the legislation. We have seen the federalism policy called unsympathetic and unnecessarily restrictive. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  said that the Prime Minister will have no defence to the criticism from the States which will inevitably follow. I think that the  Australian Financial Review  yesterday summed up the situation more accurately when, at the beginning of its article on the federalism policy, it stated: 
As is often the case, the outraged reaction by the State governments against the form of the Commonwealth legislation on income tax sharing with the States and local government is mainly a sham. The Prime Minister pointed out that it is not intended to be a devious ploy. 
I refer to clause 5 of the legislation whereby a surcharge or rebate may be introduced by regulation. The Treasurer announced in his second reading speech that it would be introduced after proper consultation with the States. I suggest that the commentators and maybe the Premiers themselves should have taken firm notice of the statement by the Treasurer that consultation would be effected before any regulation was used to vary rebates or surcharges on taxation. The Prime Minister has pointed out that in fact this was a safeguard for the States so that if any changes were effected, particularly any rebates were effected, it would not mean that the proportion going to the States would decline. I believe that this has been accepted by the Premiers, contrary to the rantings and ravings of the Leader of the Opposition. I ask him: Where have criticisms appeared in the Press of today and yesterday since the Prime Minister made his explanation on Tuesday. I have checked with the metropolitan dailies of every major capital city in this nation- the  Australian,  the  Australian Financial Review  and the  Canberra Times- and  have not seen one mention of continued resentment or of the dire predictions that the Premiers were supposed to be going to continue with as to the supposed sham and disaster of the Fraser federalism policy. They have accepted the explanation. 
I heard a lone voice from the back benches of the Opposition. I heard the rabbit once again. They have accepted the explanation. Over the weekend and earlier this week there was supposed to be such an issue. Where is the issue now? The Prime Minister has, of course, explained the matter most succinctly and, I believe, to the satisfaction of every State government and local councils of this Commonwealth. The supposed veto in the local government legislation by the Commonwealth of recommendations of the State grants commissions again is an issue that has been explained. The legislation supports the principle that local government should be able to put its case directly to the grants commissions, that hearings should be held in public, that the evidence of local government bodies on finances should be made public. 
There should be due recognition of the funds that the Commonwealth provides. I refer to the announcement by the New South Wales Minister for Local Government on the allocations to various local government councils and point out that that announcement gave no indication whatsoever as to the proportion of money that came from the Commonwealth and the proportion of money that came from the State. In fact, well in excess of 90 per cent of those funds going to local government municipalities and shires came from the Commonwealth. I believe that if it is 90 per cent, members of this Parliament, whether they occupy the Government benches or the Opposition benches, should explain to their electors that this basically and primarily is Commonwealth money. 
Of course. I am a reasonable man, like my colleague who represents the Darling Downs. I turn to other claims made by local government organisations which I think are worth canvassing in this House. Claims have been made, and they have been made by members of the Opposition, that the totality of funding to local government this year compared with that of last year has declined from $274m to $195m, a decrease of 28.8 per cent. The honourable member for Reid referred to the decline as being 30 per cent. I believe that is a complete misconception. Admittedly the people who made this comment have said that the reduction is due to the phasing out of the Regional Employment Development scheme and, further, that the RED scheme was discontinued by the Whitlam Government. I believe that is the major reason it can be claimed that the overall quantum of funds for local government has been reduced this year from that of last year. Who in his right mind would want to include the RED scheme as a normal type of funding process for local government? The RED scheme provided assistance of a temporary non-recurring nature. It was a patch up job to cover the disastrous unemployment that occurred during the Labor Government's regime. 
Further criticisms are explained in terms of gross arithmetical errors and in the fact that some of the figures used are not correct. It has been claimed that the Area Improvement Program represents $611 ,000. In fact that is not so. It represents $6,000,111. People who make these criticisms should first check their facts and figures. I believe it is totally erroneous to include moneys allocated under schemes like the RED scheme, the Capital Assistance for Leisure Facilities scheme, the Area Improvement Program scheme, the XYZ scheme, and whatever else they were called, as an argument that funds for local government have been disastrously cut within a period of 2 years. 
The Prime Minister and the Treasurer have called on local government to cut its cloth wherever possible, as the Commonwealth and the State governments have had to do, as part of a responsible approach to economic recovery in this country. Nevertheless in some cases councils have increased their rates. In fact in some States they have gone up 20 per cent. We know of some councils which have been extravagant, particularly in providing buildings and facilities for their staff. I believe all honourable members can call to mind instances of shires or municipalities with relatively low rate incomes which have tremendous problems with roads and in providing services, which have been very extravagant in their building programs. I know also that there are many shires and municipalities which have made a very brave and conscientious effort to cut their operating costs and contain their expenditure. 
This Government has provided very significant increases under the tax sharing formula for untied general revenue grants. Some shires in my electorate have had increases of up to 200 per cent. They average over 90 per cent and the shires are very grateful. It is interesting to note that some shires have said that they will make an effort to cut their rates by up to 10 per cent in spite of some of the enormous problems that they have. They have to face problems resulting from the changing requirements and expectations of the community as to what local government should be doing. There are demands for social and welfare services. They also have enormous problems because of the system of rating under which many of them have to operate. In some local authority areas a large proportion of the population does not contribute to rate revenues yet it uses the facilities that local government provides. Some areas have severe flooding problems. I immediately think of a shire in my electorate, the Gemalong Shire, which has survived a very serious flood for the fourth time. The last 3 floods in that shire required expenditure of nearly $lm to restore roadworks and bridges alone. Some municipalities have problems with sewerage. 
I close by referring to the major problem which I believe exists for local government, particularly in country areas, and that is the problem of roads. The Labor Government's total disregard for people outside the major metropolitan centres is best shown by the way it treated roads and road funds for local government councils. 
Prior to the introduction of the Roads Grants Act in 1974 by the Labor Government we had the old Commonwealth Aid Roads Act which provided S per cent escalation for grants within its program. That figure of 5 per cent is out of date now because of the current inflation rate which we inherited from the previous Administration. Nevertheless the previous Government very effectively implemented the new Act in 1 974 and it resulted in a disastrous decline in funds for local government, particularly for rural arterial and rural local roads. I have some figures which are worth mentioning. In New South Wales the total allocations for rural arterial roads in the past 3 years were as follows: 1973-74, $ 13.7m; 1974-75, $11.2m; 1975-76, $9.7m. For rural local roads the figures were as follows: 1973-74, $21.6m; 1974-75, $15.5m; 1975-76, $14m. 
I have just come from a meeting of municipal bodies in Victoria where the situation is even more disastrous than in New South Wales. I was talking to one of the shire councillors in the area of the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King).  The decline in road financing imposed by the previous Labor Government has been disastrous for rural local roads and rural arterial roads. That Government looked after only the major metropolitan centres. 
The electoral record of the Opposition certainly did not justify the marvellous record the Opposition is claiming for country areas. This happened at a time when inflation, particularly in regard to road building, is running at very high levels of between 20 per cent and 25 per cent. This Government has taken on the task of repairing the terrific damage done by the Labor Government as far as road funds are concerned. We have a long way to go but at least we have supplemented the previous Labor Government's Budget of 1975-76 by $64m. We have provided further supplementary finance of $36m for the current financial year. It is interesting to reflect also on the fact that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and the Prime Minister requested that these additional funds- $ 1 1.3m in the case of New South Wales- be allocated to local government for rural road building. However the Minister for Transport in New South Wales was very loath to accede to that request. I believe we are facing problems of great significance so far as road funding is concerned. I refer to employment, alleviating the problem of the rundown of plant and equipment owned by local shires, and decentralisation. These Bills provide a base for a unique system of federalism. They reaffirm the constitutional fabric of this country, protect the sovereignty of the States and allow local government to be a completely effective partner in our federal system. I support the Bills and reject the amendment. 
The Minister for Transport will recall only too well that the New South Wales Minister for Transport did not abide by the Commonwealth's request that the additional $ 11.3m recently made available to that State be used for local government road works with special emphasis on rural local roads. I ask the Minister Has he received any notification from the New South Wales Minister that he will abide by the Commonwealth's request or is the New South Wales Government still the only State government yet to make up its mind on this issue? 
-The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  made some play of the fact that he was not given sufficient opportunity to address the House on these education Bills. I would point out to the House and to those persons listening that the Opposition was given a very clear opportunity to object to these 8 Bills being debated cognately. There was not a murmur from them. I should also point out to the House and to those listening that when the speakers' list was drawn up the Opposition could find only 2 speakers. Since then it has found the honourable for Wills, and I understand that it is now trying to find yet another  speaker  to take part in this debate. So much for the claim that the Opposition is being denied the opportunity to debate these Bills. 
The 8 Bills are most significant and indicate clearly the support that the Commonwealth Government is providing for secondary and post-secondary education. Within that context of post-secondary education I include apprenticeship education, to which my friend the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  referred. At the outset I want to say that I think there are enormous problems in apprenticeship training when one considers the situation that has occurred with the wages explosion and the level of wages being paid to young people. I have found it very difficult to persuade an 18V4 year old to take up an apprenticeship, to be indentured for a long period of time, when that 18 'A year old can go and work in an abattoir in my electorate for a base wage of $196 a week, with an additional $20 to $30 a week in overtime, and effectively doing some 32 hours work in that week. That is a sad reflection on the state of the economy and on the situation in which we found ourselves when we took office last December. 
This Government is committed to education and these Bills amply demonstrate that commitment. Contrary to the criticism- criticism often ill informed or in some cases purposefully orchestrated, I believe- there has been no cutback in education funding by this Government compared to the previous Government's funding. The cutback occurred in 1976, and I point out very clearly that this current year's funding resulted from the previous Labor Government's Budget, the 1975-76 Hayden Budget, when the Labor Government suddenly realised that its extravagant education programs, its multifarious programs, its wasteful programs, could no longer e financed. The cutbacks came between 1975 and 1976, and in fact this Government has restored and increased the level of education expenditure over and above that of last year. Previously we had the luxurious, wanton and wasteful programs which were instituted by the previous Government. I find it quite remarkable that a small country school can be battling to survive because it has perhaps 14 children, and if it drops below that number it will be closed. It has one teacher, it has very poor toilets, playing fields and recreational facilities, and yet it has a multitude of electronic equipment, closed circuit television and the like. This sort of thing has done untold damage to parents and friends associations which were working for the smaller schools. It destroyed any incentive they had to raise funds for the benefit of the school, and I believe that that sort of thing is an example of the wasteful programs which were set up. 
In relation to the post-secondary education sector, I have had some first hand experience with some of the difficulties involved in trying to plan, to budget and to administer within the rigid programs established by the previous Government. There was a situation, which has now been rectified, where it was almost impossible to substitute between recurrent funding and capital funding. For example, if one could make savings in the current funded areas through salaries or through the employment of part time staff and one wished to use that saving for a capital purpose, it could not be done. The matter had to be referred to Canberra for decision because of the rigidity with which the programs were implemented. For example, there was no prospect of being able to carry over finance from one triennium to the next, or in some cases within years of triennia, and there was in fact no incentive for good housekeeping within the education system. 
What was the situation when this Government took office? Inflation was running at record levels which threatened the real values of recurrent and capital programs in the education sector. Unemployment was at a level of 300 000 people, 40 per cent of whom were young people under the age of 21 years. A decision was made in August 1975 by the Whitlam Government to cut the programs of the 4 education commissions for the calendar year 1976 by a total of $ 105m compared with the allocation for the 1975 calendar year. That is where the cutback came. The Whitlam Government set aside the principle of triennial funding' and planning, and that was disastrous from the point of view of any logical and well designed program for educational development, both in  terms of  physical facilities and in terms of course-planning and programming. We did not know if we could appoint staff. In relation to staff appointments, anybody who has been involved in this area will know that there is a long lead time between the first indication that additional staff are needed, through the process of advertising, selection and appointment, to the time when the member of staff first takes up the appointment as an effective member of the operation. 
The Australian Universities Commission and the Australian Commission on Advanced Education were amalgamated, and I sympathise with the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  who was at that time the Minister for Education. He is a man for whom I have some regard, and a man who was genuine in his efforts to provide a high level of quality education for this country. But he was so often thwarted in his efforts to do that by his own Prime Minister. The classic example of that is when the Prime Minister declared that the 2 tertiary commissions would be amalgamated. I doubt if the Minister for Education was properly consulted on that decision. We also saw the freezing of students' allowances by the Whitlam Government even though no changes had been made since 1 January 1975 and the allowances at that time were based on June 1 974 values. 
I think that we also saw a substantial change in attitudes of young people towards work, towards examinations, towards pass rates and towards the whole education system. There seemed to be an attitude developing that as long as they attended or in fact were enrolled there was no real necessity for them to perform in order to take a qualification, in order to have some right to bear that qualification and to use it. We saw extraordinary attitudes developing, where in the free hand-out society students believed that they should have their student representative council fees paid for them by the government. They even believed that their Australian Union of Students' subscriptions should be paid by the government. Everything had to be free. They thought that they deserved it, that it was their right and entitlement and that they did not have to contribute for anything. 
I should like to refer to the accusations of the cutback in the expenditure programs of the 4 major educational areas. Reference can be made to the recent speech of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in the Senate in which he made it quite clear that compared to allocations made in 1976 as a result of the Hayden Budget the allocations for education programs in 1977 in all cases have increased giving a total of $ 1,537m for 1977 compared to $l,490m for the 1976 program and honourable members will recall that that was a cutback of $ 105m on 1975, the previous year. 
What has been done since this Government took office besides making increased allocations to the 4 education areas? Firstly I applaud the inquiry that has been instituted by this Government into the whole sector of post-secondary education, and secondary education for that matter, as it relates to the needs and demands of the workforce. I believe that we have tended to become too academic, too out of touch and too unrealistic as to what the workplace demands. I think that we have been in danger of overeducation too many and leaving a great hiatus at the lower levels of post-secondary education, particularly as my colleague the honourable member for Franklin mentioned, at the apprenticeship levels and at the technical and further education levels. I think that as a result of this many people who graduated with postgraduate degrees or undertook research have found it very difficult to find meaningful employment and, in some cases, any employment, within the workforce. I recall some of my colleagues at university who were not game to face visits by people representing the industrial organisations that financed their post-graduate scholarships. They in fact found an excuse to not be there because they were not prepared to be publicly scrutinised as to the value of the scholarships they held in relation to the work that they were meant to be doing and the contribution they were meant to be making to industry or the university. 
What else has been done? This Government, as I mentioned before, has restored education funding. It has provided for an increase in real moneys to universities by 2 per cent, to colleges by 5 per cent and to the technical and further education area by 7 per cent. This is very commendable at a time of such extreme economic difficulties and the need for severe economic restraint. The principle of a rolling triennium has been reintroduced. This will allow institutions and States effectively to forward plan and effectively to administer their programs. Only recently in October this year the Government announced substantial increases in all 10 different categories of students' allowances amounting in total to an additional $50m a year in expenditure. This was an issue that was mooted far and wide in the Press as indicative of how much this Government had cut back education funding. In fact it is this Government, rather than the previous Government, that has restored student allowances. 
In addition, the Government is committed to undertaking an investigation into the coordination and rationalisation of a number of our institutions. I think that these matters need some examination. I make reference to the college sector where there has been an escalation of what I would call 'academic respectability'. There has been great pressure to increase the length of courses, to upgrade courses, to go for higher and higher degress, to push associate diploma courses to diploma and degree course levels, and to make application for more postgraduate and graduate diploma courses. Staff believe that they are entitled to be called 'professor', make substantial demands for sabbatical leave entitlements, and increase the basic theoretical content of many of their courses. In so doing I believe they lose sight of the original function, purpose and role for which colleges of advanced education were originally established. 
I think that examination needs to be conducted of the college and technical education sectors of education. There needs to be a clear definition of the roles of colleges  vis-a-vis  the roles of technical and further education institutions. If there cannot be a clear definition of these roles let us accept the fact that there may need to be some overlap at the interface between the two. Why is it necessary to compartmentalise institutions into tertiary versus non-tertiary or tertiary versus sub-tertiary? One of the results of doing this is that we have in this country probably the most inadequate provisions for the transferability of students between one sector and another of the post-secondary education system. I think that through doing this we also basically deny opportunities to so many young school leavers who may have left school for a variety of circumstances which in many cases are beyond their control and who have not gained their higher school certificate. In many other countries there are ways and means and opportunities for people such as those who do not have full secondary qualifications, to acquire those qualifications in later life and to follow through to achieve the level of post-secondary education that they desire or that suits them best. 
I think that also has implications for the way in which we select applicants for our institutions. Personally I believe strongly that we should insist that students who seek to attend universities and colleges should do so only after waiting for a period after leaving school. They should have a period of life and work experience so that they can enter the institutions as more motivated students and probably more able to undertake and succeed in their courses. 
There would be many members of this House who would recall how successful returned servicemen from World War II were in completing university courses. Those servicemen were described by one professor at Sydney University, with whom I remember discussing this subject, as by far the best students, the most motivated students and the most contributing students of whom he had ever taught. Look at the record of some of our adult students who have entered institutions such as the University of New England through external studies programs. They have entered the university with provisional matriculation and have graduated as university medallists. I can think of one extraordinary case in which a husband and wife were both university medallists in the one year. So let us look not only at the selection of our students with a view possibly to getting more motivated students and with a view to reducing first year wastages and the like but let us look also at some of our learning processes. I think that these are the sorts of things we can do with more motivated and more experienced students. Let us try to accept that the learning process is not simply one of communication from staff to students. Let us look at the situation where students might be able to learn from each other. Let us look at the situation where staff might learn from students. Let us look at the situation where students might learn from the practitioners of arts, crafts or professions, the people who have to survive or die by their ability to conduct their profession or their craft. 
I mentioned earlier the rationalisation that is necessary, I believe, in some areas. We see, for example, a university, a college of advanced education and one or more technical and further education institutions in the one centre. This may or may not be a regional centre. I think there is a great need to look at this dispassionately and intelligently to see whether there cannot be a much greater degree of co-operation and interrelationship amongst the 3 sectors. At the same time I think there are dangers in assuming that because an institution is bigger it is better or because an institution is bigger it is cheaper to operate. Each institution has to be regarded on the basis of its own merits, the particular philosophy that it might have developed, its reputation or its particular specialty. 
I make mention of the Katherine Rural Training College to which the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  referred. How on earth could one apply a criteria of this sort to the establishment of that type of institution. Katherine is a relatively small settlement. The student draw in the whole of the Northern Territory is relatively small. At the same time there is a necessity to provide that type of post-secondary educational facility. Since I have had some association with that rural training college I make a plea to this Government that before it proceeds to establish the college there is an examination of the role, function and purpose for which this college should be established. In the initial stages of planning it was considered that this college might provide training facilities for people to work in the pastoral zone and in the rural industries as rural labour or as rural managers. Of course it then became clear that this college might become basically a training college for Aborigines. I think that also is a worthy motive. But let us be quite clear on its purpose before we embark on it. 
-It is interesting to me that speakers from the Opposition side seem to have a rather narrow view of what constitutes a regional centre. We have heard pleas made for Newcastle, Whyalla, Geelong, Yallourn, Maryborough and Queenstown. I have not heard any comments about other centres that may be the hub of great areas of agricultural production or other forms of production in this country. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  made no mention of the sort of places which I would have thought should be included as regional centres and which in his own State might be Ballarat or Benalla, or even the Bacchus Marshes and the Benambras. This Government's policy is to secure the survival and development - 
In Victoria near Omeo. I thought that the honourable member might know. 
That is right, and in my opinion 2 people are important- just as important as the 100 000 or so who live in Geelong. I think that is one of the greatest problems that the honourable member's Government had; it adopted the view that people living in small country areas and in isolated areas were not to be worried about. Our Government's proposition is to secure the survival of the development and progress of regional centres and of the smaller centres surrounding regional centres on which they are dependent, contrary to the previous Government's declared policy of strangulation and destruction in almost every area of government for these regional centres and those other smaller centres. This destruction came about through the unbridled inflation which was allowed to develop under the previous Government. I agree with the honourable member for Corio when he says that regional centres are some of the first to be hit by problems in the economy. Surely to goodness this is what we saw during the term of the previous Government. We saw inflation having a disastrous effect on rural industry, escalating costs out of all proportion; inflation having a disastrous effect on the small business sector which is so important in regional centres. We see small business going to the wallindeed much of it has already gone to the wall- in regional centres. This is happening also in our country industries. 
It is interesting to note that the honourable member for Corio mentioned the Australian Industries Development Association report. He used that report to imply that manufacturing industry was the basis of all regional centres. That again I think is an indication of what the 
Labor Party regards as regional centres. But there are some regional centres that do have a manufacturing sector. What a disastrous situation we had when tariff cuts were introduced in the previous Government's regime. I ask honourable members who represent areas where there are clothing factories or other industrial factories to see what has happened to the viability of these enterprises. Unemployment, of course, hits country areas and regional centres more particularly and earlier than larger areas. 
We have the great problem of young people not being able to find employment in regional centres and having to go to cities from where they seldom return. It was during the previous regime that the greatest incidence of and increase in unemployment occurred. I cannot agree with the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  that the panacea to all these problems of employment is to resurrect that extravagant, ill-administered, ill-conceived and totally ridiculous Regional Employment Development scheme. I can find very few local government councils, for example, in my area that would agree that the RED scheme is the solution to unemployment in regional centres. We are committed to providing schemes which provide relocation opportunities and retraining opportunities. Above all we intend to encourage and we have encouraged people to help themselves. This philosophy is strange to the Opposition. 
Let us look at local government. This is an area in which there has been a wide variety of schemes, such as the handouts, which tied local government to the centralist philosophies of the previous Government. Again this Government is committed to ensuring that local government becomes a viable and meaningful third tier of government. Of course the Government has made significant contributions in untied grants to ensure that this aim can be carried out. It has allowed local government also to make its own decisions instead of imposing them from Canberra. That is what local government surely is all about. The people should be able to elect their representatives who know best the local problems and requirements. I cannot pass from local government without referring to roads. If there ever was a program totally pitched against regional centres and the areas that rely on them it was the Jones program that slashed rural road funding. The present New South Wales Government is perpetuating many of those attitudes. 
The honourable member for Robertson says: 'Thank God for that'. Does he say thank God for the fact that passenger fares have been cut by 20 per cent and rail freights have been increased by 7 per cent? Passenger fares were cut at a net cost of $ 10m. The 7 per cent increase in freight rates gave a net return of $ 1 6m. In other words, those people who have virtually no recourse or alternative, such as the wheat growers who cannot shift their produce in any way other than by rail, are subsidising city commuters to the tune of at least $6m. 
The New South Wales Government is not even prepared to support the regional and country areas in their local roads programs. The New South Wales Government says that there is no legislation to provide for the support. It says that since there is not legislation it cannot support those areas. I think that is another kick in the teeth to the country people. Let me refer to another decision of the present New South Wales Government. It has legislated to peg rates without any consultation whatsoever with the local government associations and organisations. The policy is directly contrary to the wishes of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations. I could go on and outline areas in the field of post and telecommunications where this Government is recognising the disabilities of distance and isolation. It has provided concessions for the installation limits on telephone lines. 
I would like to close my speech, however, by referring to the policies on decentralisation and regional development that were put forward so strongly by the previous Government as being so successful. All honourable members will recall the noise made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  about how disastrous this Government's decentralisation and growth centre program would be, how it would be scrapped and how it would be abandoned. He said, for example, this afternoon that the Government dismantled the program of Public Service relocation. I assure the honourable member that the present Government has not overlooked that need to carefully consider where government activities should be located so as to provide tertiary employment outside metropolitan areas. This Government retained the committee set up by the previous Government to review the location of governmental activities. This has continued. I trust that this type of approach to decentralisation will be part of our overall decentralisation policy. 
I refer now to the rather pathetic bleatings in the Press statement of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition issued on 7 November following the statement of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  on growth centres. After all the huffing and puffing that went on prior to that, all the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition could say was contained in one page. He said that there was not enough money, that we were intimidating the States and that we had forgone our representation on the development corporations particularly those in New South Wales. It is high time that a careful review was made of moneys going to growth centres. Growth centres are not the only form of decentralisation. I am pleased to say that this Government is looking at additional forms of decentralisation in co-operation with the States. This Government looks to a real, meaningful and co-operative form of federalism. Why should Canberra stick its fingers into the corporations' affairs by telling them what they should do from here? Why on earth should we have representation on the development corporations of Bathurst-Orange or Macarthur? We have no wish whatsoever to subscribe to the centralist philosophies of the previous Government which could not in fact mind its own business and had to interfere with both State and local governments and in fact with individuals' own affairs. This Government is prepared to support State schemes on decentralisation 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion has now concluded. 
-It is likely that I am the last speaker in this debate and I am very conscious that there are other issues on the notice paper of this House, particularly the debate on the defence statement. Therefore somewhat reluctantly I shall make my remarks brief. This issue of roads is an extremely important one and I look forward at some other time in this House to speaking at greater length on the critical situation of roads, particularly the situation we must face up to in future. 
I think honourable members would be well aware that there has been a change in the administration of road grants funding by the Commonwealth. Under the previous Act, the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act, there was an inbuilt multiplier effect of, I think, 5 per cent which provided a continuing basis on which local government and the State governments could ensure that road funding was forthcoming. That Act cut out in 1973-74 when a new Act was instituted to take effect from 1974-75. Whilst it is worth noting that Federal road funding throughout Australia continued to increase at what could be called a satisfactory rate, and total road funding for a State like New South Wales also continued to increase at what would be considered a satisfactory rate- it kept pace with inflation- I draw to the attention of the House the fact that this was not the case with some road categories. 
It certainly was not the case with rural road categories, both rural arterial roads and rural local roads. In fact with the implementation of the new legislation by the previous Government funding for the 2 rural categories headed for a disastrous decline. That decline was even more seriously reflected in rural local road funding than in rural arterial road funding. If honourable members could see these graphs that I have here they would see that there was quite a dramatic turn-around in funding. In fact there was not only a very real decline; it fell well below the level that it would have been if the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act had been continued and its 5 per cent increment had been continued. This is yet another example of the attitude of the previous Government and the previous Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  I could hardly regard his performance today as being honourable. It was indicative of his Party's attitude towards the plight of people in rural areas. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Did the Minister hear the lead item this morning on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio program  AM  which referred to the alleged deepening gloom over devaluation? Is it an acceptable standard of reporting and broadcasting by the ABC to base reports such as this on unnamed people who '. . . are at the very top in Australia's business, banking, economic and industrial circles and who were not willing to be identified for fear that the authority of their positions would further endanger the present tenuous state of the economy'? 
I rise to speak on some aspects of the Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill 1977. There are 2 major amendments on which I wish to speak. The first is the provision in the Bill for a distinction between large non-metropolitan electoral divisions of above 5000 square kilometres and metropolitan divisions under 5000 square kilometres. The provision is that no large division shall have an enrolment at the time of redistribution greater than the enrolment in smaller divisions, those under 5000 square kilometres. It thus ensures adequate representation for people of geographically large divisions. The second provision is the requirement that a redistribution shall be held, firstly, when 25 per cent of divisions have an enrolment exceeding the quota tolerance, of plus or minus 10 per cent, secondly, when the Governor-General sees fit to call a redistribution or, thirdly, if these two do not apply, at intervals of not less than 7 years. 
First of all I would like to discuss the area distinction with which the Opposition is so concerned and which it sees as a devious ploy, a gerrymander, in favour of the rural bias. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  used the expression 'an iniquitous blot'. 1 think he might have meant 'plot'. He talked about the percentage of the vote obtained by the 3 major parties and the percentage of seats held in the House as a result of that vote. Time and time again, like so many of his colleagues, he ignores the fact that not all parties contest all seats. If he were to recognise that fact, he could not make the claim he did. This is part of the folklore rhetoric that so often surrounds this argument on the Commonwealth Electoral Act and redistributions. 
The Opposition has claimed that in the past the 20 per cent tolerance has given a heavy bias towards rural areas. I admit that there is a grave discrepancy between country and city seats at the moment, but this is not the fault of the tolerance. This is brought about largely because of population changes between the States and infrequency of redistributions that have occurred over recent years. For example, the last was some 9 years ago. Let us look at this claim. In the 4 redistributions in 1955, 1962, 1968 and the last one in 1974-75 in 6 States, therefore giving 24 opportunities for redistribution- there were in fact only 3 occasions when the 10 per cent tolerance was exceeded. The metropolitan divisions in Tasmania in 1955 were plus 12 per cent, and in 1962 plus 10.2 per cent. In Western Australia the non-metropolitan divisions were minus 11.1 per cent in 1 968. 1 would point out that the mean variance in New South Wales over those 4 distributions spanning some 20 years for metropolitan divisions was plus 2.44 per cent and for nonmetropolitan divisions minus 3.48 per cent, giving a total variance of under 6 per cent between country and city electorates. How does that line up with the wild claims of a 40 per cent variation between country and city electorates? Over 4 distributions over 20 years the total variation in New South Wales, the State with which I am familiar, was less than 6 per cent. 
If we take individual seats, of course we find extremes. Even so, in New South Wales on only one occasion since 1948 has any division got anywhere near 20 per cent, and that was the division of Darling. In 1968 the variation in that case was minus 18.6 per cent. 
Of course Labor holds that seat. The other seat I would like to discuss, one which in my opinion should be well and truly over the tolerance, is the seat of Kalgoorlie. It has consistently had a variation of over 15 per cent. Why not have up to a 20 per cent variance for geographically large electorates, particularly a very large one like Kalgoorlie. which has an area of over 2 million square kilometres. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  pointed out clearly the extreme difficulties of servicing that electorate. In his maiden speech early last year he said: 
The electorate I represent is the biggest electorate in the world. It covers approximately 880 000 square miles or ninetenths of Western Australia or one-third of the Australian continent. Its shores are washed by three of the world's oceans and its eastern boundary is the entire eastern border of Western Australia. Some other honourable members have spoken of the vast size of their electorates and the large number of people they represent. In this geographically largest electorate there live approximately 180 000 or 190 000 people of whom only about 57 000 are on the electoral roll. I think that this is the highest ratio of people to electors in any electorate in Australia. Whilst not all of them are on the electoral roll they represent 1 80 000 problems. 
City members complain about people not on the roll or ineligible to vote whom they have to serve. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie pointed out the nigh impossibility of adequately representing large areas. I quote the honourable member as reported in the  West Australian  on  2  June 1976 under the heading 'Kalgoorlie Electorate Too Big says MHR'. It states: 
The size of the Kalgoorlie electorate may warrant dissection, the sitting member  Mr M.  Cotter said. He said that the Kalgoorlie electorate was such a huge size that no member of Parliament could do it justice. It was physically impossible to give the people the same quality of representation as people in city electorates experienced.  Mr Cotter  said people e metropolitan and smaller country seats had a far greater opportunity to see and speak to their Federal people than the people in the Kalgoorlie electorate. The electors had to rely on infrequent visits from their representative. 
I could not imagine why members representing large city electorates would wish any further area or enrolment imposed upon them. My colleagues the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  Maranoa (Corbett) and Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  would, I am sure, agree with those sentiments, and to a lesser extent I would agree with them about my own electorate of Calare, which is not a large electorate compared with theirs. In these areas one cannot afford the luxury of living outside the electorate. One has to move house to contest an election or even to seek preselection. One has to move again with redistribution. One has to maintain an office in the electoratenot in a nice air-conditioned building in a 
Commonwealth office block in a capital city where the constituents have to go to the member and the member does not go to the constituents. 
I would like to correct the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  and  Senator McLaren.  They have said that of the 4 large electorates in South Australia only one member resides in his electorate and that is the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis).  But they have failed to point out that Grey is one of only two out of a total of 47 large electorates which is represented by the Australian Labor Party. 
They have only two of the large electorates. I would point out to honourable members and  Senator McLaren  that if they do their calculations and look at enrolments and representation in large electorates in which the members have offices or reside they will see that in New South Wales of a total of fourteen 100 
Eer cent reside in their electorates and twelve ave offices in their electorates. In Victoria out of a total of 10 nine reside in their electorates and eight have offices in their electorates. In Queensland the score is 100 per cent on both accounts. In fact 92 per cent of members representing large electorates reside in their electorates, so hogwash to the claim that on account of Grey alone the Labor Party better represents large electorates. In some cases where members do not reside in their electorate they reside or they have offices in major cities very close by. A particular case in point is Launceston. 
I do not wish to canvass in great detail or at any great length the problems of distance, isolation, communications and transport, except to bring forward a few examples. My colleague the honourable member for Leichhardt has an electorate where there is a town of something like 5000 people with no roads whatever to it, many towns and constituents with no telephones whatever, no television- that is an absolute luxuryand in many cases no mail services and no air services. In other large electorates there are very good air services. Most roads in Leichhardt are very poor in the dry season and absolutely impassable in the wet season, and that situation does not apply only to the large electorate of Leichhardt. The honourable member for Hughes gave a bleeding heart speech about the grave social problems involved in dealing with inner city suburban electorates. Yet I understand that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  does not even require a car to service his electorate. In fact I understand that he has never even driven one. In some of the electorates which have an area of about  Vh  miles by 3 miles and some 55 000 to 60 000 people one could service the electorate by jogging around it before breakfast. 
Another factor to be considered is how many city electorates have a very significant number of State members? How many have the situation which applies in Kalgoorlie, where there are 17 State members? How many have 10, 15 or 20 local government organisations? How many have 5, 10 or 15 newspapers or other media outlets? How many electorates really consist of the rich graziers whom the Labor Party is so keen to denigrate? That myth of the rich grazier! They seem to forget that farmers represent the new poor in this country. My own electorate is 60 per cent urban in provincial towns or cities. When will the Labor Party recognise that the contribution these large electorates make is very significant to the national wealth in terms of both agriculture and mining? How many Labor members would like to spend some time with the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  driving his 50 000 miles per annum? I am sure the honourable member would make an offer to take them around, and they would suddenly realise the amount of time wasted in simply driving around the larger electorates. 
The honourable member for Burke pointed out that in his opinion the duties of a member were, firstly, to cast a vote on behalf of his constituents and, secondly, to interview constituents personally. He said that he recognised the need for better facilities in terms of allowances and staff for members adequately to service large electorates. But I wonder if that could be done. I wonder how effective the better facilities and allowances would be, and again I quote the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. On 2 May he was reported in the  Sunday Telegraph  as saying that in the first 4 months of his new parliamentary year he had expended more than half of his electoral allowance. He pointed out that he could drive 2500 kilometres in a straight line in several directions without leaving the electorate. 
The tolerance principle has been accepted in Australia since Federation, and it has been accepted in many other countries. We should look at New Zealand, where enrolments range from 16 000 to 2 1 000 people, a differential of 35 per cent. We should look at Britain, where in the election following the redistribution in 1974 their constituencies ranged from 22 000 to 96 000 people, a differential of between 400 per cent and 500 per cent. In Canada, a country very similar to Australia geographically, their electorates range from 7500 to 80 000 people. Representation means far more than the right to mark a ballot paper. It means the right to be adequately and fully consulted in discussing problems and in marshalling ideas. It means the right to be able, without undue difficulty, to talk to one's member. It means the right of proper communication with those who sit in Parliament. That right is in a large measure denied to many members who represent large country electorates. It is a right for which country people need to be protected to a degree, but only to a limited degree, under the existing law. Members of the National Country Party would be failing in their duty if they did not fight with all their power to protect the limited rights of country people and to secure for country people something approaching the equality of representation to which they are entitled as Australian citizens. 
Let us look at the sacred academic argument of one vote, one value. This, of- course, is an impossible ideal to achieve, and I challenge members on the Opposition benches to name one country where it has been achieved in terms of their euphemistically named ideal of electoral justice. 
And I presume Communist China. How can one accept one vote, one value as a philosophy when one looks at the quotas on the enrolments based on the December 1976 figures. The quota for South Australia is 71 850, for Tasmania 52 000, for the Northern Territory 40 000. How ridiculous it is to talk about electoral justice. Secondly, the Constitution provides for an original State to have a certain number of members and thereby the Constitution denies electoral justice. Senate representation varies from 300 000 people in New South Wales, 59 000 people in the Aus.tralian Capital Territory, 50 000 people in Tasmania, and 20 000 people in the Northern Territory. Equality of representation is a fine ideal but it is not attainable in such a huge, dispersed, sparsely populated country as this. 
The anomaly of territorial representation is something which I think needs to be brought up. The population in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory is not to be counted when determining the size of the House of Representatives, and I think there is merit in the argument put by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  If the territorial population is eligible to vote, to pay taxes, and we presume soon to vote at referenda, surely it is consistent that it be included in determining the size of the House of Representatives. How strange is it that the size of the House of Representatives will soon be reduced to 123 members, only 2 more than it had 30 years ago, in spite of the enormous increase in population during that time. 
Concern has been expressed by the Opposition that by having an area differentiation country divisions will be tied to the fastest growing city divisions, but I point out that that is not mathematically possible. It is not mathematically possible to have a fast growing city seat held at minus 7 per cent or minus 8 per cent or even minus 9 per cent, as has been suggested, and still provide in New South Wales, for example, for the enrolments required in the remaining 14 divisions over 5000 kilometres. Let us be factual in our discussions. Let us see through all the rhetoric that is associated with so much of the ballyhoo about electoral representation. In practice, the real variances are more likely to be what they were in the past and, as far as metropolitan seats are concerned, that was up to plus 3 per cent and for non-metropolitan seats down to minus 4 per cent, a total of 6 per cent to 8 per cent. They could, of course, be the same. I believe it is totally justifiable that larger nonmetropolitan seats are not greater in enrolment than city seats. What a ridiculous situation it was with the Labor redistribution in 1974-75 that the largest division in Victoria, the division of Mallee, had the largest enrolment in that State. What about the proposed division of Flynn in Queensland, where there was one division extending from Camooweal or Mt Isa down to Birdsville and across to the outskirts of Toowoomba, stretching 1700 kilometres in a straight line. Not all of that is spinifex, sandhills or camels. Most of it consists of many settlements, some big, some small, and an area like that is quite impossible to serve. 
Finally, the second proposition that has caused concern is that a redistribution shall not be held more frequently than every 7 years, if the other 2 provision do not apply. The leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  expressed some concern about that. I ask him: Does he not recognise that there is a completely different ball game? One quarter of the divisions have to be out of kilter by 10 per cent and immediately a redistribution has to be called for that State. The Governor-General- the Opposition's friendcan call a redistribution as be sees fit. I believe that that is a perfectly reasonable proposition, and so is the provision to ensure that disabilities encountered by country people in obtaining a reasonable degree of representation are minimised. 
It is an honour and a privilege for me to rise to second the motion that the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen be agreed to. It is also a pleasure to support this motion which has been moved by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom),  a new member of this Parliament who has gained wide respect from members of this House. In seconding this motion I note that this is the third Commonwealth Parliament which  Her  Majesty has opened and that there have been only these 3 occasions in our history when a reigning monarch has opened our Parliament. It is therefore a most historic and significant occasion. When  Her  Majesty first opened the Parliament in 1954, some 23 years ago, the then Prime Minister,  Mr Menzies,  in moving the Address-in-Reply said: 
. we of the Great British family are privileged to live in unity under a young and lovely Queen, a great Queen to-day but one who is bound to be greater and greater as the years move on. 
How prophetic the Prime Minister was on that occasion. We now have the pleasure of  Her  Majesty's presence in her silver jubilee year.  Her  Majesty also opened the Commonwealth Parliament in 1974 and I have noted the AddressinReply speeches on that occasion. It was with more than passing interest that I observed that the seconder to the motion on that occasion was the honourable member for Diamond Valley, whose surname, as honourable members will recall, was McKenzie. I sincerely trust that in seconding the Address-in-Reply in 1 977 1 am not destined for the electoral demise that my namesake experienced at the subsequent election. 

 Mr Speaker, may I take this opportunity of extending to  Her  Majesty the expressions of loyalty and good will of the people of Australia and particularly those people in the central western region of New South Wales.  Her  Majesty will recall her visit to the city of Orange in April 1 970 and I assure her that her gracious presence on that occasion is remembered with affection by the people of that city. 
Australia is, in my view, approaching a most significant and potentially difficult period in its short history. We see many divisions in our people and in our society. We have conflicts between employer and employee, between governments and trade unions, between the Commonwealth government and State governments, between technologists and artisans, between young people and their parents and between country and city, to name but a few. We have been through periods of rapid expansion in our industrial and manufacturing capacity, of rapid population and immigration growth, of stock market booms, of unprecedented minerals and resource discoveries and of significant recognition by the world community and, in particular, by many of our Asian neighbours. We have also, in more recent times, discovered that many of our traditional values and beliefs are under challenge. The strength of our family unit is being eroded and our national spirit and identity and endeavour appear to be waning. We are in danger of becoming a complacent, insular, selfsatisfied and satiated society. We are also becoming a welfare orientated hand-out society. It has been said on many occasions that we as Australians are an 'I am all right Jack' nation. I believe that a new dimension can now be added to that. We now say: 'If I am not all right Jack, you have got to bail me out'. Jack, of course, means the government, the taxpayer, the employer or our fellow Australians -anybody but ourselves. Where is our independence, our initiative, our capacity for tightening our belts and working our way out of our economic difficulties? The welfare philosophy is making huge demands on our budgets, on our national finances and on our prospects for economic recovery. Our demands for higher and higher wages, shorter working hours, extended annual leave and all the other provisions are only exacerbating the twin national problems of inflation and unemployment. I remind this House of the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  concerning excessive wage demands when, as Prime Minister, he addressed the Australian Young Labor Conference in January 1975. He said: 
The fact is that wage claims in the last twelve months have so greatly reduced the profitability of employers that they have ceased to employ as many as they used to employ. Now this is the fact, you can't make people employ. And while things are as unprofitable as they are now: That is as long as wage and salary claims take up so much of the take and reduce profits so much as they are, then there is going to be great unemployment in Australia. We may lament it, we may condemn the situation but you have got to face the situation. The simple fact is that every excessive increase in incomes for one man takes a job from another man. 

 - Mr Whitlam said that. On the same occasion, with regard to wages and inflation, he said: 
There is no point in going over the history of inflation. I don't say that the inflation at the time that we came in or even in 1973 was due- let alone primarily due- to wage increases and claims. But it is indubitably primarily and almost solely due to wage increases and claims today. 
In January this year I was fortunate enough to visit Japan and China as a guest of those countries' respective governments. It was a most rewarding and valuable experience and I am sure my colleagues who visited those countries would join me in expressing appreciation to those who were responsible for hosting us. I only wish more Australians had a similar opportunity so that they too could gain some understanding of where Australia stands in the Japanese and Chinese perspectives. I remember only too well viewing a map of the world at Peking University. The projection was centred on those longitudes that cover China and which, of course, include Australia. The Americas were represented as a disproportionately small strip squeezed into the right hand margin of that map with Europe and Africa treated likewise on the left hand margin of the map. One wonders what those students of the English language in China conclude when they see their country with 900 million people, a quarter of the world's population, and they compare it to Australia, a country of somewhat similar size with 13 million people. I wonder also what they would think if other criteria, such as the rate of population growth or resources or energy consumption per head of population were superimposed on that map of the world in Peking University. I wonder also what Japanese students think when they look at our energy resources, both of fossil fuels and uranium, when they know that they have virtually no internal sources of energy themselves and that their country has to import 98 per cent of her oil requirements. 
The  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  recently returned from Japan and made some scurrilous claims which, in my opinion, need to be refuted. Firstly, he said that the Japanese automotive worker was paid more than a worker in Australia. This, I believe, was an attempt to justify the wage levels of the Australian automotive industry.  Mr Hawke  conceded that Japanese productivity was higher but he did not give us the full picture. He did not say, having visited the Tochigi plant of Nissan, which we also visited, that Japan was producing as much in one plant as was our whole automotive industry- 30 000 motor vehicles a month. He did not say that wages consisted of a base wage, plus 2 half-yearly bonuses- bonuses which are dependent upon the productivity and profitability of the company. He did not say that wages contributed to health, sickness, accident and unemployment insurance. He did not talk about the capacity for work of the Japanese people. They work 6 days a week, 8 hours a day with 10 minutes off twice a day out of their own time and 40 minutes for lunch out of the company's time. They receive virtually negligible holidays. Also he did not draw our attention to the levels of protection in our own Australian automotive industry. 

 Mr Hawke was also at pains to play down the problems of industrial relations as they might affect Australia's reputation as a supplier and a trading partner. Yet he told the Japanese that companies in Japan which were considering setting up operations in Australia or investing in Australia should consult the trade union movement before doing so. No wonder Japanese businessmen are concerned as to who is running Australia. I believe that the Government must convince our trading partners that the unions are not going to destroy our trading capacity. 

 Mr Hawke conferred with the  President  of the Confederation of Japanese Automotive Workers Unions, as indeed did our Party. He did not talk about the harmonious relations that exist between companies and labour unions. He did not talk about the concern of unions for the financial and competitive position of their companies. He did not talk about how unions voluntarily forego their bonuses in order to assist their employers and their companies in the event of difficult circumstances, such as those which were created during the strike of the Storemen and Packers Union of Australia which withheld wool supplies for mills in Japan, which nearly closed some mills, and which, of course, put what are supposed to be its own colleagues out of work in Japan. He did not talk about the policy of Japanese companies of life time employment- a very good, sound mutual relationship between labour unions and company management- and the near absence of industrial strikes, demarcation disputes or bans, let alone employees having a day off when the weather gets too hot. 

 Mr Hawke accused the Australian Government of using the unions as a smokescreen and a scapegoat. But his assurances were hardly convincing to the hard headed Japanese. The greatest single problem in Australia- Japan relationsJapan is our greatest trading partner- is in the area of industrial unrest and disputation. We were told by the Confederation of Japanese Industry- Keidanren- that what it was looking for in its trading partners, and especially in Australia, was stability, reliability and predictability. How can we expect Japan to sign a contract when it does not know whether in fact the commodity it is purchasing will even be delivered to the wharf, whether it can use its own ships to transport that commodity, or whether it will take delivery and, if so, when it will take delivery? Industry in Japan is most efficient, but at the same time it operates on relatively small margins. Consequently time is a very important and critical component of those operations. 
They would not know what strikes are. Japan is looking towards many countries for the supply of her raw materials. Those of us in Australia who believe that we have some hold over Japan because of the resources that we have and that they are obliged to purchase from us need to think twice. We have already seen, following the industrial disputes and the unreliability that has occurred in the Western Australian iron ore fields, that Japan is not only looking to other suppliers but also is actively supporting them and investing in those countries. The amount of Japanese money that is going into Brazil and Mexico in the development of iron ore mining is very significant. 
In summary, I think Japan is really dependent on Australia for only 3 basic commodities: The first is wool, the second is coal, and the third is access to fishing grounds. Otherwise I believe that unless we can assure supply and be a reliable trading partner Japan will pass us by in relation to the other commodities that we have to offer. Unfortunately I do not believe that we can ever compete with Japanese industry. I refer to its automotive industries, its steel industries, its ship building industries, its nuclear power generation, and its consumer goods industries. Japanese technological expertise and capacity are vast. The personal capacity of the Japanese to work, their attitude to work and productivity, their ability to work for themselves as well as their company and their nation- it reminds me of the old saying that they are all employees of one company called Japan Incorporated- and their nationalism and pride in their own achievement and their country's achievement make that nation one from which I think we can take some lessons. As has been the case in the past, Australia's trading future will continue to be in our raw materials and our resources, both in the minerals and energy field and in our great agricultural industries. Australians generally must recognise the importance of those industries. We must recognise the need to be a reliable supplier. We must recognise the need to establish mutual relations of trust and co-operation with the Asian countries with whom we share this region. 
I have dwelt on Japan at some length because I believe it has some very significant messages for Australia and for the direction in which we might be heading. We as Australians must recognise our apathy, complacency and indolence. We must recognise that we enjoy a standard of living that we may not deserve. We must recognise that work' is not a dirty word. Furthermore, we must realise in which direction our future lies, both strategically and economically, in the world. In my view, we need a confirmation of our national identity. We need a rekindling of the Australian spirit that pioneered this great nation- that spirit which has carried us through recession and prosperity war and peace, conflict and consensus, and which has managed to get us even through the period when we have had Labor governments. 

 Her Majesty's visit to Australia, her opening of Parliament yesterday and our participation in the celebration of the silver jubilee of her reign provide an opportunity for us as Australians frankly and honestly to examine ourselves, our country and the direction in which we should be heading. It also provides us with the opportunity to reflect on our traditions and our history and to re-affirm our allegience to the monarchy which has served us so well. Finally, this occasion gives us the opportunity to congratulate our Queen of Australia on her 25 th year of accession to the throne, to welcome her and to wish her and her family health and happiness.  Mr Speaker,  I second the motion. 
Can the Minister for Health indicate whether Australia faces any risk of an outbreak of blue tongue virus, which would have dire consequences for the sheep industry? What quarantine and veterinary precautions have been taken to guard against this disease? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that air traffic controllers have been directed to stop work for 12 hours tomorrow to consider a proposal that the national stoppage be extended for 7 days if their claims are not met? Do their claims include a 36 per cent increase in their wages award? Is it true that air traffic controllers command salaries of up to $ 1 8,500 per annum, including shift penalties and allowances, for a 35-hour working week? Will the stoppage cause serious losses for airlines and inconvenience to the air travelling public particularly in Victoria and Queensland on the eve of the school holidays? What measures are being taken to avert this stoppage? If the Minister has the power to stand down air traffic controllers who stop work, will he do so, if necessary, to ensure that the Australian travelling public is not held to ransom by minority militant action such as this? 
Does the Minister for Transport recall that in answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Wilmot on 28 April he said that he considered it unlikely that the south bound component of the freight equalisation scheme to Tasmania would include fresh fruit and vegetables? Can the Minister explain why he believes that those commodities would be excluded from the scheme whilst Tasmanian growers of fruit and vegetables can benefit under the north bound provisions of the scheme? Does the Minister realise that he could be denying the people of Tasmania access to high quality, nutritious fruit such as apples grown in premier mainland fruit growing areas in the electorates of Calare, Hume, Maranoa, New England, Mitchell, Macquarie and many others? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) How many pensioners reside within the electoral division of Calare. 
) Of these, how many are ( a ) age pensioners, ( b ) invalid pensioners, ( c ) wives, ( d ) widows, showing a breakdown between classes A, Band C, and (e) supporting mothers. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) Is it the policy of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to appoint Field Survey staff by advertising vacant positions for open competition both within and outside the Public Service. 
What qualifications are considered desirable for Field Staff and does the Bureau consider that substantial contact with farmers is an essential prerequisite for such positions. 
Was the recent appointment to the position of Field Officer Grade 1, Third Division, Projects Economics Section No. 1542 made in accordance with the Bureau's policy concerning Field Staff appointments. 
Does the Minister for Post and Telecommunications recall that following his release of the report on the introduction of a citizen band radio service in Australia in January, on a number of occasions since he has indicated that a decision would be made on the future of citizen band radio within the next two or three weeks? Is the Minister aware of the rapidly increasing illegal use of citizen band radio and of the desirable and undesirable purposes for which CB radio is presently being used? Is the Minister in a position to report any progress towards the legalisation and control of citizen band radio? 
-Many times we have heard from the Opposition, education institutions, teachers and academic staff organisations dire predictions about what will happen to education funding and expenditure. I recall that not so long ago  Senator Wriedt  in the Senate predicted that the whole concept of cost supplementation would shortly be abandoned by the Government, but here we are now examining 4 Bills which are in fact cost supplementation Bills for the 4 main areas of education. Let us look at these Bills very briefly. They are normal machinery Bills which provide for supplementary grants for increasing costs and for general agreements with various education commissions and bodies within the States. The Bills cover 4 areas- advanced education, schools, technical and further education and universities. In regard to advanced education there are 2 amendments to the 2 main Acts to provide, in accordance with policy, supplementary grants totalling $ 1 5.6m. This is to cover increases which have occurred in the 1976 and 1977 programs. The supplementary grants for the 1976 program comprise $2.8m for recurrent expenditure supplementation and $ 1.49m for capital expenditure supplementation. 
Opportunity has been taken to revise schedules and also to include a number of intraprogram transfers of funds, which within the advanced education sector were a difficulty with which many colleges had to live. The difficulty occurred when there was a provision of total funding divided between capital expenditure and recurrent expenditure and it was not possible to make a transfer between those 2 areas of expenditure although one might have had a good opportunity to finance a capital need from recurrent expenditure or vice versa. During the regime of the previous Government this was extremely difficult, if not well nigh impossible. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has stated that he will consider such transfer. I applaud that because it will lead to a much better utilisation of funds and resources. 
One of the other 3 Bills with which we are dealing in this cognate debate refers to assistance to schools, both government and nongovernment. The funds appropriated represents an increase of $3.3.m over the allocation under the existing Acts covering the 1 976 program. The adjustments of grants for the 1977 program for cost increases will involve an additional appropriation of $ 10.9m. The technical and further education area will receive cost supplementation to the December 1976 price levels so that the real value of grants approved by the Government in the light of now known variations in costs will be maintained- The additional amount in respect of the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Act 1974 is $700,000. An additional $2.7m is being provided in the 1977 program and further supplementary grants and amendments have been foreshadowed by the Minister as necessary information becomes available on the movement of costs in 1977. The last Bill refers to universities. Again cost supplementation will apply in respect of both 1976 and 1977. This cost supplementation will ensure that real values of grants are maintained. The additional amounts to be paid to the States, again on the basis of December quarter 1976 costs, for operating expenses and building expenses in 1976 is $7.3m, of which $5.3m is for operating expenditure and $2m for building projects. 
I must agree in part with the comment made by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that there is not much heart to be had from those figures for capital supplementation; but I point out that in many areas, one of which I have just mentioned- the university area- there has been a very rapid expansion of building projects and capital programs. In my opinion it is an area which can afford to have some restraint imposed on its capital programs; but not likewise, however, the technical and further education area. This Government has committed itself very clearly to the expansion and stimulation of the technical and further education area. Of course, there have been many criticisms- most of them unfounded- of this Government's intention with regard to education. Time and time again we have heard dire predictions which have not come to fruition. The Government has maintained the real level of contributions to all sectors of education and in the technical and further education sector has provided for a very significant increase in spite of the present economic circumstances in which we still find ourselves after taking office in 1 975. 
There has been speculation and criticism that there has been a retreat by the Commonwealth Government. This was raised only recently in the other chamber. In fact, the only reduction in education spending by a Federal government over the last few years was by the Whitlam Government towards the end of its period of office. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith did say rather apologetically: 'We were rather sorry; we could not give everything asked for in 1976'. Let us see what did happen in the 1975 Budget, following a period of excessive expansion in most areas of education. I had some first-hand experience of this. It became rather embarrassing to have to spend the funds that were being foisted on some sectors of education for projects that were not always viable or justifiable. 
It could not be called underprivileged with its representation in the Federal Parliament. There were great difficulties in spending this money which in many cases was thrown around. I had direct experience of making applications for grants for particular institutionsI was on the council of one institutionand being told that the applications were not of sufficient magnitude and that the State or Commonwealth body knew better what our needs were. We were told that we had been too conservative. We were told that we should have doubled the amount sought in one instance. The previous Government, whilst it was rather lavish with its education spending, nevertheless needs to be commended to some extent. It took some real and significant initiatives but it got into such a lot of trouble. Towards the end of this period of very rapid expansion in education we saw in the last Budget of the Labor Party in August 1975 a massive and unique cutback in the 4 education commissions totalling $ 105m. 
Not only did the Government do that, but also, as far as I know without the consent of the Minister responsible, the Prime Minister of the time determined that he would amalgamate two of the advisory commissions in the tertiary education sector. I recall that the then Minister for Education expressed some considerable public surprise that the Prime Minister had decided off his own bat that he would interfere with the commissions and amalgamate two of them. Not only did we see a record cutback in education totalling $ 105m but we also saw the sorry record of other reductions. Funds for the universities commissions were reduced by $21m. Funds for colleges of advanced education were reduced by $32m. For technical and further education, the pet baby of the Labor Party, funds were reduced y $9m which was a significant proportion of the total amount. For schools, funds were reduced by a total of $43 m. Incredibly, the Government confirmed a decision to cut back school building capital by $85m in that Budget. 
That is the record of the Labor Party. That is the record which is being held up as an example to us by the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  The retreat by the Labor Party in August 1975 is unparalleled by any federal government in history. Further, it threw aside the whole concept of triennial funding in one fell swoop. That was the only way in which any real progress, proper administration and management of tertiary education could be effected. The Labor Party threw the whole system into absolute chaos. This Government has restored that principle on a better basis still. The rolling triennial program gives a much better opportunity for forward planning and annual updating of the forward 3-year programs. Other harsh measures by the previous Government included the freeze on student allowances even though those allowances were set at the June 1974 cost of living index. Now, some of the Labor Party's spokesmen refer to those periods and say what a marvellous record the Labor Government had, how reliable it was and how well aware it was of the needs of education. This Government has very responsibly assessed its commitments to education. It has given a positive statement of commitment. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said: 
We certainly do not envisage any immediate changes to the present arrangements. Neither is there any attempt by the Commonwealth to retreat from its present position in which education is regarded as an area of substantial commitment, nor to reduce its overall financial contribution. 
Some concern was expressed by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for KingsfordSmith, that the States might have to take over some of the funding responsibility that presently is provided by the Commonwealth. I do not see that as any major national disaster. In most areas of education the States had the original responsibility. States like New South Wales are crying poor but, at the same time, their economic and budgetary situations appear to be very healthy indeed. They are not prepared to admit that they have received a bonanza in the contributions they have received from the Commonwealth under the tax sharing formula. I am not worried that the States might have to chip in a bit more than they did before. I think it is highly desirable that they do. 
Furthermore, when he introduced the programs in the Senate on 4 November last year the Minister for Education said that unlike the cuts and reductions in the past by the Whitlam Government this Government was able to make the claim that the universities would be able to maintain their full intake of students and, in fact, increase the total student population by 2 per cent. He also said that there was provision for an increase of approximately 10 per cent in student intakes in colleges of advanced education in 1977 compared with 1976 and that there would be a 5 per cent increase in teacher education courses in 1977. That may be unnecessary but time alone will prove that. I think the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  raised an important point that too many teachers are being trained. I think we have to relate the supply and demand situation for teacher education courses to our likely projections for population. If we are to continue to train a large number of teachers I hope that they will be trained as effective teachers and that the population in general will be able to raise its poor level of literacy and numeracy so well highlighted by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  in his report on specific learning difficulties. 
I shall conclude by referring to the 3 areas in the education sector which we have been considering. These are universities, colleges of advanced education and technical and further education. There has been a tremendous increase in the number of tertiary institutions in Australia. I think that to a large extent this has been out of kilter with our needs and requirements. It became very fashionable at one stage, particularly in the 1973-74 period, for many cities and centres to decide that what they needed to stir things along was a college of advanced education. Most of these people have little idea of what colleges of advanced education were established for and why the principle of advanced education was initiated. I believe that this is one of the problems that has developed in the tertiary education sector. There was an explosion of colleges of advanced education. Most of them were set up originally to serve industry and the community in a much more pragmatic way than the universities. 
Unfortunately, many institutions were established without adequate homework. It was found that there was not the student demand for some of the more trendy courses being instituted. It was found that there would not necessarily be even 10 per cent of jobs available for the environmental scientists and others who were trained. There were also difficulties in some centres where there are two or three institutions. Some locations in this country have universities, colleges of advanced education and technical and further education colleges. As a result, there has been a certain amount of concern expressed for the need for rationalisation of funding and course. We find that there are competing requirements within one area or one town or one city where, for the sake of parochial empire building, the principal of a college of advanced education requires a magnificent new library and the vice-chancellor of a university or the dean of a faculty also requires the same type of facility. 
In all sincerity, we cannot justify some of the duplication of resources that has occurred in buildings particularly between those 2 levels of tertiary education. 
I should like to go a little further on that point. I believe that there is a very real need in this country to break down the artificial barriers between technical education, further education and so-called tertiary education. I believe it is important that we should try to develop a concept of post-secondary education across-the-board whereby we can provide real transferability between levels of education for students - 
-Thank you very much indeed. I feel much better now. But I believe that we need to examine in some detail the concept of community colleges whereby we can have a real and beneficial rationalisation between what was called the tertiary education sector and what was called the technical education sector. Concommitant with that would have to be a handing over of the very jealously guarded powers of the States concerning their technical education systems so that we can have some local control and some real autonomy and independence, financially, philosophically and academically, of the technical and further education sector. The technical and further education sector, in my view, will never fulfil its role until it gains some degree of autonomy from the strangleholds of the State systems. So I support these 4 supplementary assistance Bills. I am pleased that the Opposition sees fit to do likewise. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) What Commonwealth public works are (a) under construction and (b) proposed in the Electoral Division of Calare. as adopted proclaimed the Year in 1 98 1 . No special designation has been attached to the year 1978. 
For information on Australian participation in the Year for Disabled Persons I refer the honourable member to Senate Question No. 144 of 9 March, the reply to which appears in  Hansard,  29 March 1 977. 
I must again draw the attention of the Committee to the inaccurate wording of this amendment, as was the case previously with amendment to clause 14. At no stage in the legislation are the words Board of the Corporation' referred to. If we were to include this amendment in the legislation clause 15(1) (d) would strictly read:  engage consultants on terms and conditions determined by the Australian Meat Board of the Corporation. 
That shows how patently ridiculous the Opposition 's homework has been. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 16 and 17- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Clause 18. (Membership of Corporation) 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the general manager of Consolidated Meat Holdings Ltd at Wodonga has stated that the works will close indefinitely as a result of industrial action taken by the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union? Is the Minister also aware that the AMIEU President has threatened retaliatory action against Consolidated Meat Holdings through industrial action at that company's Shepparton plant? Is this not yet another example of how unreasonable union action can not only close works, creating serious local unemployment and possible permanent destruction of jobs, but also further erode our international trading competitiveness in meat and livestock products? 
-The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has pointed out the circumstances under which noncommercial practice can be undertaken. I think that it is a fair and reasonable assumption that the Minister should have the power of approval or veto if non-commercial practices were to be undertaken by the Corporation. Such practices could be discounting, the covering of loss sales, various types of export or new market subsidies. Such practices could have implications as far as international trading agreements are concerned- - for example, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Basically the principle is that in this situation of a non-commercial type of operation, it is the industry's money that is being utilised. Therefore, the ultimate power and the ultimate responsibility of the Minister should be appropriate. 
At the same time, the Opposition appears to be somewhat confused as to whether it wants more ministerial powers or less ministerial powers. The Opposition, in its amendment, has suggested that the Minister be notified in writing at regular intervals of all purchases and sales by the Corporation, whereas before, the Corporation was only required to inform the Minister of its policy and the reasons for adopting that policy. It also had to seek the approval of the Minister to operate in a non-commercial sphere. So, I think that the Opposition should make up its mind whether it is seeking more ministerial powers or less ministerial powers. 
As the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has pointed out, the Opposition is totally confused as to whether it is suggesting that the Corporation should have more or less power. The amendment shows how ill conceived its ideas are, how hastily they have been prepared and how inconsistent the Opposition has been. I remind the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  that if he looks at the definition of the word 'Board', which he has used in his amendment and which appears under proposed section 5 ( 1 ) he will find that it refers to the Australian Meat Board, which is the Board that we are replacing and reconstructing in this Bill. Strictly speaking, proposed clause 9a reads: 
The Minister may give directions to the Australian Meat Board concerning the performance of the functions and the exercise of the powers and the Australian Meat Board shall comply with those directions. 
The Opposition has told us where that provision came from, that is, from section 18 (1) of the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act 1974. It is a pity that the Opposition did not do its homework well enough at least to be able to substitute the word 'Board' for 'Corporation' and make it relevant to the Bill that the Opposition is talking about. So much for the level of understanding and sympathy that the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  talked about when he referred to meeting a delegation of farmers in the electorate of Wannon- in a telephone booth. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
What expenditures have been made under major programs administered by the Department of Social Security in the electoral division of Calare in 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
How many migrants settled in the electoral division of Calare during 1974, 1975 and 1976, and from which countries did they come? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
In the electoral divisions of Calare and Macquarie (a) what is the location of the official and non-official post offices in 1977, (b) which non-official post offices have been closed in 1975, 1976 and 1977, and (c) how many persons are employed by Australia Post in each official post office. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 27 April 1 977: 
How many persons in the electoral division of Calare receive pensions from the Department of Veterans' Affairs, and how many persons are receiving each type of pension. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
1 ) What are the locations of (a) fully automatic and (b) manual telephone exchanges in the Electoral Divisions of Calare and Macquarie. 
How many persons are employed by Telecom at each of these exchanges. 
Which of the manual exchanges were converted to automatic operation in 1974, 1975 and 1976. 
Which of the manual exchanges are programmed for conversion in 1977, 1978, 1979 and 1980. 
Which of the manual exchanges have been expanded in capacity or upgraded, but not converted to automatic exchanges, in 1975 and 1976, and which are programmed to be so expanded or upgraded in 1977, 1978, 1979 and 1980. 
I ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development a question. Does the Commonwealth provide funds to the States for building society advances? Is the Minister aware that building societies in New South Wales must inform borrowers that their loans are being provided from funds from the New South Wales Government? Does this condition reflect the true funding situation? Will the Minister ascertain whether the New South Wales Government wishes to continue in funding arrangements with the Commonwealth, such as the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement? 
-Tonight I wish to discuss some features of the Australian cattle industry and its associated beef politics. Few people would deny that the plight of the industry is serious indeed, particularly in Queensland and the Northern Territory, where in many situations it is disastrous for those producers who are totally reliant on beef cattle for their livelihood. A plethora of schemes and proposals has been put forward to rectify this situation, but many have overlooked the fundamental causes of the beef industry's problems. 
Basically these are fivefold. Firstly, the closure of overseas markets, particularly the European Economic Community, the United States of America and Japan, resulting largely from domestic beef surpluses in those and other importing countries, has created tremendous difficulties for the industry, which is 60 per cent reliant upon exports. The rapid growth of both cattle numbers and cattle producers following boom conditions some years ago has been another major contributing factor. The industry has been beset by dramatic increases in on-farm costs and killing and processing costs in the past three years. The level of industrial disputation in the killing, processing and shipment sectors of the industry has cost producers up to $20 or $30 per beast slaughtered. Finally, all export industries, including the cattle industry, have to carry the burden of tariff protection granted to our manufacturing industries- a burden amounting to some $230m for the cattle industry alone. 
This Government will shortly be announcing a number of measures designed to assist both the short term and long term problems of the industry. These and other measures have been discussed for a considerable period, in some cases up to two years, with various producer organisations associated with the industry. The Government and the organisations have to ensure that these measures give greatest benefit to those producers in greatest need. They must be effective, both in the short term and in stabilising the industry in the longer term and they must ensure that Australia is regarded as a reliable and responsible supplier of beef of a predictable quality to our trading partners. 
Whilst most of the organisations representing cattle producers have acted in a responsible and informed manner, there is one whose activities have been notoriously emotional and sensational, and which have caused unfortunate divisions and rancour within the industry. I refer to the Cattlemen's Union of Australia. This organisation has now apparently placed itself above industry organisations, above the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and above the elected Government. The National Director of the Cattlemen's Union, in a speech given at his first public meeting as Director, in Goulburn said: 
And if you are a Minister, an industry organisation, an industry leader or even a Government, and you are not serious about the job, or if you get in the way, we will go over the top of you. 
No doubt many people ask the same question as the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson),  a member who, I might add, has worked continuously for country people and beef producers in North Queensland, a member who has led many debates on rural issues in this place, as have many of his colleagues, including the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite),  the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  the honourable member for Capricornia  (Mr 
Carige) and the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar).  But let us see what else this Director had to say. Having criticised the Prime Minister elsewhere, the Director resorted to a new level of cheap sensationalism when he stated: 
Every time another cattle man in Eden-Monaro is forced to walk off, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro ought to take a bag of cow manure and empty it on the carpet of the Prime Minister's office. 
It is abhorrent to see that this highly paid Director of the Cattlemen's Union has resorted to such petty and threatening outbursts in order to justify his position and in order to further the cause of his organisation. One wonders what he will say on his second public platform. The tactics employed by the Cattlemen's Union would appear to be a desperate attempt to claim credit for the forthcoming measures to assist the cattle industry at the expense of the well documented and researched representations put to government by the long-established and well-regarded rural industry organisations, both State and national. 
The Prime Minister recognised the valuable contributions made by organisations such as the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation, the Australian National Cattlemen's Council, the Australian Wool Growers' and Graziers' Council and the Australian Farmers' Federation, in responding to a question asked in the Parliament this week. The credibility of the Cattlemen's Union is being eroded by its extreme and sensational outbursts. Much of the valuable progress and public awareness that it has achieved is being dissipated. I should have thought it to be in the interests of the whole cattle industry that the Cattlemen's Union, with its undoubted energies, abilities and funds, be directed to closer collaboration and co-operation with the other industry organisations and the Government to secure a return to economic stability and security for all sections of the cattle industry. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 18 August 1977: 
1 ) What was the total amount of direct financial assistance to (a) manufacturing, and (b) rural industry in Australia in the years 1974-75, 1975-76, 1976-77 and what is the estimated amount for 1977-78. 
In what form was this assistance allocated, or will it be allocated, to either industry in the same years. 
-It is somewhat ironic that the terms of this discussion of matter of public importance refer to the Government 's threats to the independence of the Schools Commission. Honourable members should recall very clearly that the previous Government did not threaten; it actually attacked the independence of the Schools Commission without consultation. I refer the House to the fact that guidelines are not new. The Whitlam Government first issued them in 1975 when it set aside, completely out of hand, the reports of all the education commissions for the 1976-78 triennium. It suspended the whole principle of triennial funding and directed the commissions to present recommendations for 1976 within clearly stipulated financial limits. It went further than that, as all honourable members will recall. In the 1975 Budget the Federal Labor Government cut spending for the four education commissions by a total of $105m. Funds for universities were cut by $2 1 m; for colleges of advanced education by $45m; for colleges of technical and further education by $9m - 
They are published here. Funds for schools were cut by $43m. The impact of these major cuts was tremendously savage within the schools area. Following such a period of rapid growth funds for capital building alone were cut by $85m, leaving many projects and programs completely up in the air. As a result of and in response to the rigid guidelines which the Schools Commission had to abide by, the amount of money for government schools was cut by $65m. The amount of money for nongovernment schools was increased by $14m. What a peculiar thing for a Labor government to do. It increased funds for non-government schools and now complains about the fact that this Government has not increased funds for government schools but has tried to maintain funding for non-government schools. Furthermore, not only were guidelines set and principles undertaken which were completely without precedent, but further the previous Government amalgamated, virtually without consultation or warning, the Australian Universities Commission and the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. It froze student allowances at 1974 levels and, in abandoning the triennial principle, imposed extremely difficult operating conditions for tertiary institutions in having to operate on one year programs. 
I think it is relevant to look at the 1976 report of the Commission. The report drew a distinction in respect of the guidelines imposed on it by the previous Government. It drew a distinction between the statutory obligation of the Commission under section 32 (2) of the Schools Commission Act to report to the Minister on needs- a wide variety of needs as all honourable members know- and its function to report to the Government on the best use of how predetermined levels of financial resources can be allocated. Now we are told that this Government has abandoned the principle of the independence of the Schools Commission and has imposed guidelines which we can now see were already imposed by the previous Government and accepted by the Schools Commission. This Administration's guidelines, on coming to government, have guaranteed growth in all areas of education particularly the technical and further education area. Some areas were not able to be sustained at the same level as in previous years. This is as a result of the very difficult circumstances in which this Government came to office and the fact that there are many areas of public expenditure, including education, which must be and should be restrained to some extent in order to ensure that inflation and the growth of government expenditure can be controlled. 
Let us look at the supposedly horrific guidelines that were established. The first one was to ensure that special purpose programs, such as those for handicapped children, migrants, disadvantaged schools and country schools, many of which are extremely disadvantaged, were maintained. Another guideline was as follows: That automatic linking of nongovernment school grants to per pupil expenditure in State schools be continued- that is the largest increase in allocation to non government schools in the program- and that $3m be earmarked to assist non-government school building programs in newly expanding areas of population. 
I assure the House that the difficulties in relation to capital programs in non-government schools are not confined only to newly established areas and areas of rapidly increasing population. One has only to look at the state of some of our non-government schools around Australia to realise that. Let us not forget that 60 non-government schools closed in 1974 alone. Let us not forget that in many of them, particularly catholic schools, conditions are abominable. If honourable members opposite do not believe me I suggest that they look at the conditions in some of the catholic boarding schools in country areas and they will see what sorts of facilities are provided in those boarding schools. 
We are coming to that. It is a principle with which I thought you agreed. I hear a deafening silence. Another guideline is that as a first step $2m be allocated towards implementing the basic 20 per cent per pupil grant to all non-government schools. If you disagree with it now, can you explain to me why  Mr Wran  in New South Wales agrees with it? Can you explain to me why  Mr Dunstan  has a scheme under which the South Australian Government effectively contributes 20 per cent of its expenditure - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable gentleman will address the Chair; and interjections are out of order. 
I was addressing the Chair over the interjections. This principle has been well established; it is not something that has suddenly come to light. We happen to believe in supporting government schools, as a general principle, to at least the level of a 20 per cent per pupil grant. The 20 per cent basic per pupil grant was introduced a long time ago by a previous Federal coalition government. Its stated aim was to achieve a parallel 20 per cent matching grant from all six States, and that has been achieved in Labor and non-Labor States alike. All States now provide a 20 per cent grant. Five of the States do so without any needs determination and one of them does so with a needs determination. But, overall, that State still provides an equivalent of a 20 per cent grant. 
The 20 per cent grant without means test was the sustained policy of the Whitlam Labor Government in relation to the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Is it all right to have such a policy for the territories but not all right for the States, as far as the Labor Party is concerned? In its 1976-78 report the Schools Commission recommended a minimum 30 per cent per capita grant of a standard running cost, including 20 per cent from the State governments, with the Commonwealth making up any shortfall in the contribution of a particular State. 
I think we should look at the situation that occurred in the 1975 Budget and the effect it had on schools' expenditures in 1976. Let us not forget that the real reduction in school funding came in 1975. In that year total expenditure from the Commonwealth on government schools was reduced by $56.2m. We are implementing a reduction of $9m between 1977 and 1978. The only thing on which we seem to be able to agree- honourable members opposite will not admit to this- is that while government school funds were cut back, the previous Government saw fit, as we saw fit, to maintain funds to nongovernment schools at almost exactly the same level. That demonstrates recognition by successive Commonwealth governments of the adverse resource balance in the non-government area. That recognition has also been shown by the Schools Commission. The Schools Commission in July 1976 noted that there is a marked gap between the resources available to government schools and non-government schools. It went on to say: 
When in addition it is noted that in 1977 there can be no significant increase in the Commonwealth contribution and that government schools resource levels are continuing to rise it is obvious that the gap between government and most non-government schools is likely to increase. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion has concluded. 
-In discussing the appropriations for the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations in the Committee tonight, I should like to talk about some of the basic problems of youth unemployment and some of the problems of youth generally in this country. I think that we should recognise that there are many classes of unemployed youth in Australia at this time. I think we can certainly recognise that there is one category of youths who are unemployed and who have little, if any, intention of looking for employment or of working. But I would hasten to point out that I believe that they are, in general, a minority. There is a second category which includes the unemployed youths in Australia who have made some effort to find employment and to persevere with the process of looking for jobs, but because of a number of reasons they have failed. In many cases, they have had little experience in seeking employment and they are not aware of how they should present themselves. Some have low levels of education or have not achieved success at the levels that they have attempted. They may have poor parental motivation or poor motivation from that section of the community in which they live. In some cases they may be actively discriminated against because of their ethnic background. 
There is a third category of unemployed youths and they are those who genuinely are attempting to find positions and who will probably, at some stage in the future, be successful. Let us not forget what are the basic causes of unemployment amongst our youth. One cause is certainly the wage explosion that occurred in 1974. 1 also suggest that the equal pay provisions and the adult wage provisions that have been brought into many awards have not helped the situation whatsoever. But basically the problem, as I see it, and as honourable members on this side of the chamber see it, is the unrealistic and completely unwarranted wage demands, coupled with the level of industrial disputation and strikes that have occurred in this country in the last few years. The problem is a very serious one. It is a national problem I believe that it is gradually leading to a degree of disillusionment, social disorder and upheaval. I believe that we could see this develop to the extent that it did in the United States in the 1970s and also in areas of the Continent. I believe that it gives a low regard for law and order. 
Young people have very little sense of purpose or career motivation. They certainly have little identification with Australia; they do not have a national identity. It also leads to a decline in moral standards and other habits. I refer to drug taking in particular. In the term 'drug taking' I include alcoholism which is a rapidly increasing symptom of the malaise among young people. 
These sorts of conditions are conducive for the breeding of the anarchist philosophies and the left wing extremism philosophies that are creeping into so many of our groups and organisations of young people. This is a national problem and I think it nas been accentuated greatly by the level of unemployment amongst young people. 
The problem has been recognised by this Government. I refer the Committee to the appointment of a special committee on youth affairs which is endeavouring to identify some of the problems and to communicate with the unemployed youth in Australia. One of the recent achievements of that committee was the launching of a radio program entitled  Speak Easy,  through a commercial station in Adelaide. It sought the views directly of unemployed youth. One of the interesting responses to that program occurred when a number of callers were asked whether they would be interested in working while they were receiving unemployment benefits. The overwhelming response was 'yes'. Kids who were unemployed indicated that they would welcome the opportunity to do something for their benefit and to make some contribution towards their community in return for the unemployment benefit payment that they receive. I think they recognised that there was a need to instil a sense of giving instead of taking, and of giving freely and for nothing instead of asking: What do I get out it it?' 
It is with those sentiments in mind that I should like to refer to the possibility of investigating a scheme which could be called a universal service type system or, in some people's eyes, a civilian national service type program. There would, of course, be many opponents to such a proposal because some people would immediately identify it with a military national service with combatant roles and with conscription. I am not referring to that type of national service. I am talking about a true national service established in the spirit of serving the community and the nation. Many questions, of course, would be raised. Should it be compulsory or should it be voluntary? Should payment be an alternative to unemployment benefit payments? Should it be restricted to certain age groups? Should it involve both males and females? Should it require fitness criteria? Should it try to be designed to ensure that even handicapped people can benefit within the scheme? I certainly do not have the time to canvass all these pros and cons but I believe that tremendous benefit would accrue from a consideration of such a scheme. 
Some of the benefits would be that we would give youth some direction, some purpose, some degree of discipline and self-discipline and, most importantly, some identification with Australiasome national identification with the nation in which they live. It would also give them some very useful and beneficial experience in the work force. It would assist them in determining what careers they might like to follow. I am sure that it would assist them in becoming more adaptable and flexible in their work experience. Another benefit would be that it would give a very desirable break between the time a student leaves school and the time he proceeds to some form of post-secondary education. I believe that one of the great costs and one of the great problems of post-secondary education is the large number of young people who enter these institutions not highly motivated and not really knowing what courses they wish to do. Of course, they become pan of the failure statistics which are a great cost burden on the nation. Undoubtedly, some of the best students who go through tertiary institutions are those who have spent some time working after they have left school. Motivation, surely, is the most important single indicator of success in any post-secondary education endeavour. 
Furthermore, such a service program could be oriented to provide jobs for young people who are prepared to work overseas in an aid capacity somewhat along the lines of the United States Peace Corps. This would not only provide a direct contribution by young Australians to other countries but it would also give them a highly increased awareness of the standards of living of people in other countries, of their cultural backgrounds and of their religious beliefs. This would contribute towards a better understanding of other countries by Australians. It would also provide a skilled reserve of manpower. This, I believe, would be one of the greatest benefits. If a skilled reserve of manpower were established it could be available to deal with natural disasters. It could be available in the event of general strikes. It could provide unskilled labour when required, for example, during a garbage or refuse strike, and it could provide skilled labour when required, such as during a waterfront strike. It would also provide a reserve in areas such as housing, engineering projects and of course special projects. I think of some of the opportunities that would arise in rural areas. One, in particular, would be in relation to forestry projects in Australia. Such a program could be of tremendous benefit in that field. The organisation of the program is something that would have to be worked out, but it could be developed along the lines of a specialist core basis, as has been proposed in the United States. 
There would be many problems of administration and of ensuring universal applicability of the scheme. The costs would undoubtedly be high. There would be legal difficulties, such as those imposed by conventions to which Australia is a signatory. The natural association with the conscription mentality would have to be overcome. I do not believe that such a scheme should be knocked outright before it is given careful consideration to see whether it could in fact be implemented. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact, as reported, that public servants in some departments, including his own, have refused to prepare material which they class as electioneering material? 
It is my pleasure to participate in the Address-in-Reply debate following the Speech delivered by  His Excellency  the Governor-General on the occasion of the opening of the Thirty-First Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia. The motion of acceptance of the AddressinReply was moved ably by the new honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  and seconded by his colleague from Western Australia, the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack).  I take this opportunity also to congratulate  His Excellency  on the appointment that was conferred on him by  Her  Majesty the Queen. I believe it to be a popular appointment. I believe further that  Sir Zelman  will fulfil that appointment with dignity and will give us the benefit of his vast experience and qualifications. 
Furthermore, in his absence from the chamber today, I congratulate the  Speaker  on his reelection to that office. I congratulate you also,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on your election to the office of  Chairman  of Committees, which I believe you will serve with distinction and ability. Contrary to some of the claims made by some members of the Opposition I think you have already demonstrated on the first day of your holding that office that you are not biased and that you certainly have the capacity to fulfil that position. Exactly two years ago to this day I gave my maiden speech in this place. 
It was a good one too, if I remember correctly. At that time I referred to my electorate of Calare, as is expected of a new member of Parliament. I extolled the virtues of that electorate, referring to both its economic and aesthetic virtues. I gave a somewhat erudite geographical description of the towns and cities located in that electorate. I referred to the fact that some of it was located between the fertile river valleys of the Macquarie and the Lachlan rivers. I referred to its impressive potential for growth because of its mixed rural and provincial town economy. However, following the recent redistribution I lost well over half of that area and acquired in its place 35,000 new constituents to whom I am a maiden speech maker at this moment. I feel pressed to say at this stage that I believe I am making a semi-maiden speech as a semi-new member. That means that I am entitled to be interrupted by only half the number of interjections that are usually made. 
The new area that I have acquired includes the industrial and mining complex at Lithgow, Portland and Wallerawang. It includes the administrative, educational and growing industrial centre of Bathurst. It includes Oberon which is well renowned for the quality of its rural produce and its forestry products. It includes also Blayney which is another town showing significant growth potential. It is one which is very closely associated with the meat industry. In addition, of course, I have retained some of those areas that comprised my electorate previously, namely, Orange, Parkes, Wellington and the areas in between. I now have within my new electorate of Calare the Bathurst-Orange growth centre in its entirety rather than just one part of that growth centre which was the case previously. Furthermore I have some areas which I believe show a natural growth potential. One such area is Lithgow with its tremendous reserves of steaming coal which are currently being developed in the western coalfields. There are other centres which have tremendous potential for growth. I refer to a town such as Parkes with its geographical advantage of being located on major transport routes. 
The electorate of Calare has changed not only geographically but it has changed significantly from the point of view of its employment prospects and its employment framework. It has changed significantly in its political outlook. I must say that despite the predictions of pundits of the immediate decline of the member for Calare as it was, that has not eventuated. I must say that it is rather interesting to ponder on the situation pertaining to some of the electorate. For 40 years that part of the Macquarie electorate which I have now acquired was represented by Labor members. I refer in particular to a former Prime Minister,  Mr Ben  Chifley. For 25 years it was represented by another well-known member of this House,  Mr Tony  Luchetti. 
I think the reason why they represented the area has just been suggested by the honourable member for Darling Downs. In 1975 my colleague and friend,  Mr Reg 
Gillard, won that electorate for the Liberal Party quite decisively. Although he was being described as one of the oncers who would definitely lose his seat in 1977, we saw that he was returned as the member representing the altered electorate of Macquarie. I suggest that the traditional Labor supporters were not prepared to back the Whitlam brand of socialism to which they had been subjected for a number of years. 
I indicate my appreciation and support also for the old area in my electorate which gave me such strong support. I must say that I am pleased to be representing the new area in my electorate in that it does represent a microcosm of the whole of non-metropolitan Australia. It has a tremendous diversity of industry which I mentioned in part a few moments ago. It has coalfields, food production and fibre processing. It has the largest manufacturing plant in country New South Wales. I refer to the Email white goods plant in Orange. Its rural industry is extremely diverse, ranging from orchards and vegetable growing areas to renowned fat lamb and beef cattle areas, fine wool areas, forestry areas, and in the western area there is a very significant dependence on cropping. Rual industry still remains the major base of the electoral division, in spite of the fact that the population is some two-thirds concentrated in three major cities. 
As honourable members would know the Bathurst-Orange area was selected as a growth centre by the New South Wales Government some years ago. The Commonwealth Government became involved in the funding arrangements for that growth centre. I am assured that the Commonwealth Government will continue to be involved in the funding of that growth centre. Let us look at some of the reasons why it is important for the Commonwealth Government to be involved in growth centres and in decentralisation initiatives generally. We have to realise that we have a very serious imbalance of population and productivity in Australia. For example, more than 60 per cent of the population of New South Wales is located in Sydney and something of the order of 80 per cent of its population is located in the three major metropolitan coastal centres. Furthermore, almost 95 per cent of the increase in population in New South Wales occurs in those three major metropolitan centres. It is this imbalance of population, wealth and productivity to which I wish to refer. 
In  His  Excellency's Speech he referred to a number of issues that affect non-metropolitan Australia where, as I have pointed out, almost 20 per cent of the population resides and where the vast majority of our productive assets in Australia are located.  His Excellency  referred to rural industry and made some comment about the disabilities being experienced by farmers through drought, prices and costs. He referred to the emergency assistance being provided to some sectors of the industry, especially the beef cattle industry, and mentioned the rural bank. However, I think further reference could have been made to some of the very real disabilities being encountered by rural industry, the most significant of which, is the need to compete on world markets and to acquire world markets where a viable return can be provided for Australia's rural producers. They desperately need to be able to minimise the cost problems of rural industry and to minimise the delays and disruptions that have occurred to rural industry as a result of industrial action. Farming has become a depressed occupation as far as income is concerned. 
Another point I believe very important is the need to take constructive measures to ensure that young people see a future in primary industry. I think that needs to be brought forward not necessarily only in relation to a specific young farmers' establishment scheme but also in relation to a special lending category within the Australian rural bank. There has been one tremendous benefit for young people in agriculture and that is the Government's undertaking to abolish Federal estate duty and gift duties, both between spouses and between parents and children and, in due course, altogether. This will create a tremendous incentive for young people in Australia to see a future in agriculture. As I said, further measures need to be taken and I trust that the rural bank will be able to accommodate those young people by providing a more flexible system of assessment and lending than might be expected from other banks. 
Another measure that was mentioned was fuel equalisation and the subsidisation of the freight differential so that people in country areas will be paying not much more than their city colleagues. I well recall that this matter was written up in a major metropolitan daily as a handout to farmers. Unfortunately, I think that is indicative of the attitude of many of the city-based media. It is indicative of much of the distortion that occurs. Fuel equalisation is certainly not only a benefit to farmers. It is, in fact, a benefit to all people who live in country areas, particularly isolated country areas. It has a tremendous influence, for example, on the tourism industry and has general effects right across our transport system. It is high time that some of our city colleagues and cousins in the media realised that measures such as the fuel equalisation scheme have a very broad impact for the benefit of the whole of Australia, not solely for farmers. 
Reference was made also to the support being provided for local government by the Commonwealth Government. This is a most welcome move. I am delighted to see that finally an undertaking has been made to increase the proportion of income tax revenue going directly to local government in the form of untied grants. The proportion is to be 2 per cent. I trust that this might go further. This is of very significant benefit for people in non-metropolitan Australia, particularly those who are paying such a high proportion of the rates of local government on the spurious basis that the assessed valuation of their property is indicative of the property's income earning capacity. As many honourable members know, that is not the case. 
Other major difficulties with which people in non-metropolitan areas have to contend are roads. It would have been worth while mentioning in the Governor-General's Speech that there has been a substantial increase in the Commonwealth's allocation of road funds to the States, not only in main road categories but also in local road categories. At the same time, however, I suggest that we need to consider very carefully further assistance for road funding. There have been tremendous increases in the costs of road construction and maintenance and consequent delays in upgrading roads. Country shires can see no more than one or two kilometres of new road being constructed each year. At the present rate of construction their first priorities would be completed in 10 years time. While we have heavier and heavier transports utilising our roads, probably as a result of the inefficiency and unreliability of the railway system, we will have to pay special cognisance to the need for road funding. 
In the time left to me I want to mention some more specific aspects of decentralisation. I support the concept of growth centres but I do not support the concept of growth centres being the sole form of decentralisation with which this Government should be involved. Whilst the support by the Commonwealth for growth centres such as Bathurst-Orange and Albury-Wodonga had to be reduced in order to restrain inflation and public expenditure, I believe that the time is now appropriate for some stimulatory expenditure to be applied to growth centres. I do not necessarily mean that that should be solely through growth centre funding. I am particularly pleased that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  still has within his portfolio the development of growth centres and that other measures are being considered. However, I believe that we could look at some measures which to my knowledge have not yet been considered. I refer to a subject in which I take a particular interest, that is, the cost of telecommunications. 
I believe that telecommunication charges are the single greatest disincentive to decentralisation in Australia. How often do we hear of a relocated or expanding industry in a country area saying that in spite of cheap land and a stable work force, the operating costs of transport and communications are killing it. This week we saw Telecom Australia announce a profit of $99m for the half year ending December 1977. That amounts to nearly $550,000 per day. It has no commitment to taxation and no competition from private enterprise. I do not decry Telecom's profit providing it performs a service and compensates people who are in a disadvantaged situation. I for one cannot tolerate the situation where a person, having had a manual telephone service, finds that his service will be upgraded through the installation of an automatic exchange, and is told that he has to pay anything from $300 to $20,000. That person has virtually no option. That subscriber is told that unless he pays he will not be provided with a service. He does not have the option of remaining on a manual exchange. 
I am sure many of my colleagues will recall the number of representations they have received on telecommunications matters. It is ridiculous to see that this profit is being used substantially for what I regard in many cases as lower priority gimmicks such as push-button telephones, telephones in cars, televideo conference facilities and support for professional golf tournaments. This is happening when people in this country with the greatest need for telecommunications services are being denied them or only being offered them at such exorbitant costs that it is not practicable for them to take them up. Not only people in isolated areas are affected. I have mentioned already the situation in areas where there is an opportunity for industry to decentralise. In addition, many pensioners and aged persons are charged full connection fees for a service which in many cases consists only of applying a new handset to an outlet that is already installed. 
How ridiculous it is to find that Telecom still has the policy that where a new service is to be connected to a manual exchange, the free installation limit is 8 kilometres, whereas if it were to be applied to an automatic exchange, the free installation limit is 16 kilometres. Does this mean that the person with the poorest service on a manual exchange, often on a shared party line, often with very poor facilities and very poor technical quality of his telephone service, is the person who has to pay the most? Where does this user pays' principle apply in those circumstances? 
Whilst I have closed my remarks by referring to telecommunications, I raised the matter mainly in the decentralisation context- in the context that some initiatives in the telecommunications area would have a very substantial effect on the viability of industry, particularly rural industry and all people living in nonmetropolitan areas. I believe that there was a need to highlight some of these aspects in the opening Speech given by the Governor-General. These are issues that very significantly affect nonmetropolitan Australia. They are issues that my colleagues on this side of the House and I will look forward to raising again during this parliamentary session. 
I address my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the recently announced net profit by Telecom Australia of in excess of $99m, equivalent to more than half a million dollars per day during the last half of 1977. Does the Minister realise that this profit level maintains Telecom's position as the biggest profit earner in Australia? Will the Minister ensure that a significant proportion of this huge surplus is directed to providing some relief from the burden of installation costs and call charges for telecommunications in the non-metropolitan areas of Australia? 
-I also wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I should make a personal explanation in view of the explanation just given by my colleague the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  concerning the report by  Mr Alan  Goodall in today's  Australian.  On 12 August last, in an article in the  Australian  Mr Kevin  Tooth claimed that I had been offered the chairmanship of the newly-created Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation and that there was some speculation about whether I would accept the offer. The same day I was phoned by  Mr Alan  Goodall to seek confirmation of this report. I denied any knowledge of the matter and I assured him that there was no substance in the report. Nevertheless, five days later  Mr Goodall  writing in the New South Wales  Country Life  predicted that I would resign from Parliament to accept the position as  Chairman  of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation.  Mr Goodall  again contacted me and after some discussion admitted to me that he wrote the original story under the pseudonym of Kevin Tooth. I assure this House that at no time was I approached to accept the chairmanship of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. 
-Is the Treasurer aware that individuals and private companies have employed a number of measures to minimise death and gift duties, one such method being the establishment of so-called Gorton companies? Does the Treasurer recognise that the majority of these cases involve farm families who will suffer extreme financial hardship if they are required retrospectively to pay gift duties and interest over a number of years? In view of the Government's most welcome abolition of probate and gift duties - 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of current strikes at Sydney and Newcastle by members of the Australian Workers Union and the Public Service Association of New South Wales which are placing in jeopardy a $50m market for New South Wales wheat in the Middle East? Can the Minister advise the House what action can be taken to preserve this valuable market and at the same time preserve Australia's reputation as a reliable trading partner? Can action be instituted in this dispute similar to that presently applying to the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union blockade of live sheep exports in Adelaide? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
What nursing homes approved under the Nursing Homes Assistance Act and National Health Act are situated in the Electoral Division of Calare. 
What are the names and addresses of the registered owners of each home. 
What is the approved number of beds in each home. 
What are the weekly charges in each home. 
I am pleased to be able to join in this discussion of the statement on public broadcasting made last week by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  It is important, because it is the first of a number of major statements that will be made on the whole area of broadcasting. I think the Minister's own words were that, up till now, there had been a certain amount of haphazard ad hockery in relation to broadcasting policy. In my opinion, it is certainly high time that we did come to grips with the planning and programming of broadcasting in this country. This paper, I believe, will go part way towards establishing that new era. 
As we know, a number of experimental stations, established under the old Wireless Telegraphy Act, have been operating in the public broadcasting sector. Many of those have been operating on FM wave lengths. We need to look at the introduction of FM in Australia with some concern and care because it is a new medium for this country, though certainly not for other countries, where it has experienced a tremendous boom in popularity. 
Also the Minister reminds us of the critical importance of broadcasting, of the control of broadcasting and of the general development of broadcasting policy to a nation such as ours where we value freedom of expression, and protect that freedom of expression at all times. Broadcasting is, of course, crucial to the importance of mass communication in any democracy. Also, we are well aware of the fact that the electromagnetic spectrum is limited, that there are not many slots available within it, and we have to realise that of recent years we have seen some major developments occur in the use of the air waves. 
We have had, of course, a dual system of broadcasting, both national and commercial. To that has now been added the broader perspective of public broadcasting, both on FM and AM, also the spectrum of citizens band radio. I think it is the responsibility of the Government to ensure that the air waves are utilised correctly by responsible and responsive operators, where they are undoubtedly fulfilling a broad audience demand and a broad audience need. Let us not shy from the fact that there has been some misuse and abuse of the air waves. 
I must use this opportunity to speak briefly about the development of citizens band radio, which I believe poses a tremendous problem for the Minister and, incidentally, his Committee. Citizens band radio is a new medium of communication that has been developed in this country in only very recent times. I must admit that it gives me great concern to consider how effectively any regulatory body or government can oversight citizens band radio operators. I believe that there are some very fundamental principles at stake, including the privacy of the individual, the propriety of operators, their clubs, their organisations and use to which the air waves, in this case, are put. 
Likewise, I think that that public broadcasting media, and the air waves that they will use, must also bear this responsibility. FM is a very special medium that must not be abused, ill-managed or wasted. I am concerned that there are many people who would aspire to operate on FM frequencies but who would not be using that frequency to its best advantage. I see little point, quite frankly, in having a station operating on FM, a very large proportion of whose broadcasting time deals with the voice, with the spoken word, when in fact the technicalities of FM are basically such as allow superior, high fidelity, stereo transmission. 
I sound this note of hesitation because I believe that we as a government, and the Minister with the responsibilities of his portfolio, must ensure that the regulating authorities in fact abide by the demands and expectations of the community; that the minority groups which will have access to this medium do not in fact saturate it solely for the sake of those groups. 
We should look at the categories in an historical sense, both as to how they have operated in the past, and as to how they might operate in the future. Firstly, Category E licences will be issued to education bodies intending to program for various educational activities and specifically as was mentioned- for continuing and adult education. I might add that the statement of the Minister was that such programming may include material designed to enrich the cultural perspectives of the audiences served. I might also point out that a little later in the explanatory notes at page 4, it is also said that category S stations, special interest stations, would also use material that would enrich the cultural life of the audience. It seems to me that here there is considerable overlap, or at least a need for clarification as to what that purpose might be. It is referred to in relation to both category E and category S licences. 
These categories also will be able to operate under medium coverage broadcast licence which, in urban areas, is intended to serve a listening audience in an area with a radius up to 32 kilometres. I remind honourable members that, in urban areas, that would be a very large listening audience. Again, it gives cause for hesitation as to how the whole of the sector might be managed when we find that one particular station under this category would be able to broadcast over a radius of 32 kilometres in urban areas. 
The category S, or special interest area, as has been suggested could well cover music, sport or religion, again on a medium coverage basis. We may well find that there is some conflict with the commercial sector which has, to a large extent, concentrated on sport and music- music certainly of a popular and rock type- in the category S area. 
Turning to category C, again there seems to be at this stage no indication as to the number of stations that would be licensed. If one looks at the suggestions of the community groups that might be eligible for licences, such as shire councils, schools, student organisations and resident groups, designed for a specific location, and where also the suggested areas included places like Bathurst and Manly- Warringah, again it would seem that there will be a potential for a very large number of these licences to be granted. It is not for me to say whether it is a good thing or not a good thing to have a specific category C licence for Manly- Warringah, but if that were the case I could well imagine that there would be some 30 or 40 eligible claims for licences in the Sydney metropolitan area alone. 
I take the specific case of Bathurst, not only because it was suggested as an example but also because it is within my electorate. There is an FM station licenced under the old Wireless Telegraphy Act operating from Bathurst under the auspices of the Mitchell College of Advanced Education. The licence holders will be coming up for renewal of their licence this year, and it has already been proposed that their licence be confined to the city of Bathurst and the immediate surrounds. I do not believe that this is a wise move. Bathurst is part of an overall growth centre, namely, Orange, Bathurst and Blayney, and the licence holders at the moment are very keen to ensure that their licence encompasses the whole of the growth centre area. There would appear to be some technical difficulties in the interpretation of the Act at this stage, because the station cannot operate without a translator station, to overcome some of the geographical barriers and be able to broadcast effectively to the western end of that area, namely, Orange and its district. I believe that this statement of the Minister does clarify that. Previously, the Department had held rather rigidly that a single licence holder may not broadcast from more than one station. The Minister states that licencees, whilst not permitted to own or control more than one public broadcasting licence, will be able, and allowed, to apply for translator licences, which will overcome that specific problem, as I see it, with the local station to which I referred, 2MCE-FM. 
It is very important that stations are operated by licence holders who have a secure financial and professional base. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  did indicate that in other countries there had been licence holders who, for a number of reasons, had not been able to continue and had allowed their licences to lapse. I think it would be wise of this Government to ensure that that situation arose as infrequently as possible, and that we grant licences to people who will be able to operate them in a professional, responsible and competent sense. 
Finally, I should again like to agree with previous speakers who have referred to the difficulties of some of the commercial radio stations presently operating in rural or non-urban areas. Some of those stations have experienced considerable cash flow problems. I believe that it would be advisable for those commercial stations in the smaller centres to be able to apply for public broadcasting licences and to be able to obtain them. I think there is a somewhat sweeping tendency to say that there is a tremendous audience demand out there for our public broadcasting service but in many cases that public demand has not yet been identified, and in some cases not even surveyed nor expressed. I think there would be a danger in granting too many licences without that assurance of public demand and that assurance of diversity of public demand which the public broadcasting sector is designed to serve. 
In concluding my remarks, I say that I welcome the statement by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. As I have said, I have some hesitations but I believe that further statements that will come from the Minister will clarify some of those guidelines. I congratulate the Minister for grasping the nettle in this very difficult area of government policy. It is not an easy area to resolve and there have been many competing demands. I look forward with interest to further statements from his office. 
-Is the Minister for Defence aware of Press reports indicating that the Richmond air base in New South Wales may be moved to Dubbo? Is there any substance in those reports? If so, will the Minister welcome submissions from centres other than Dubbo, such as Parkes, which would be eminently suitable as an alternative location for the Richmond air base? 
Is the Minister aware of the most important fact that Parkes is located in the electorate of Calare? 
-The three Bills we are debating cognately are of a routine nature. There is nothing within the proposed legislation that is contentious. They are the sorts of Bills that come before this House often which simply modify existing legislation or bring it up to date. The Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Amendment Bill and the Television Stations Licence Fees Amendment Bill simply ensure that the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal does not require the payment of more than one licence fee in any one 12-month period. That has become necessary since the amendments were made to the Broadcasting and Television Act late last year. Likewise the other Bill, the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill, again arises as a result of changes to the Broadcasting and Television Act last year which in turn instituted many of the major recommendations of the inquiry into the Australian broadcasting system undertaken by  Mr Green.  It provides a minor change to some of the transitional provisions of the Act. 
The purpose of the legislation is to allow the Tribunal flexibility in renewing licences in the administrative changeover period. This is an example of the sort of legislation that often comes before this House. I do believe most sincerely that where that legislation is of a noncontentious nature this Parliament should not debate it unduly. I see no reason that individual members should under those circumstances speak for the full 20 minutes allowed for debate. Consequently, this Parliament may be able to deal with the business before it more effectively and in a shorter space of time than it appears to be doing at the moment. 
Nevertheless, I should like to use this opportunity briefly to talk about two examples of the administration of licence renewal- one in the commercial broadcasting sector and one in the public broadcasting sector- concerning stations within my own electorate. The first relates to an application by a commercial broadcaster from my area for two major changes to be made to its licence. One is the relocation of the transmitting station and the other is for an increase in its power output. This caused some difficulties because an increase in power output would result in an overlap with other commercial stations in the area. That necessitated a change of frequency. 
What happened was that the station in question, 2GZ in Orange, sought application on 23 September 1976 for the relocation of its transmitter. Agreement to the aerial pattern was given by the Department in August 1977, virtually a year later. At this point in time there is still no approval for that station to operate from its new transmitter or under new power output provisions. This is a ridiculous situation. It could well end up being two years before this station can undertake its new operating format. The difficulty is that a station in Victoria- 3 WM Horsham - is on the same frequency as the new frequency on which it is to operate. Despite the fact that the Department of Post and Telecommunications has said that the directional aerial pattern allowed for 2GZ will afford protection to 3WM Horsham and another station in Fiji, it is still not possible for 2GZ to go ahead with the proposal that it put forward almost two years ago. I should Uke to know whether this sort of delay is necessary. Quite frankly, the station concerned has had no communication from the Department of Post and Telecommunications for well over a year. 
The second point I wish to raise relates to some of the difficulties encountered in regard to the licensing of public broadcasting stations. I refer, in particular, to station 2MCE-FM, which has been operating for some years from the Mitchell College of Advanced Education at Bathurst. The difficulties that have been encountered there again highlight some of the administrative frustrations that commercial broadcasters and public broadcasters have experienced with the Department. An advertisement was placed calling for applications for licences under the new Broadcasting and Television Act for the Bathurst area. The advertisement contained some errors of fact in relation to the local government areas within which the station was to broadcast. The power output of the station was reduced from 1.7 kilowatts to 1 kilowatt and it was indicated very strongly that the station would be licensed to operate only in the Bathurst area. This is in complete contradiction of the general principle that was applied in regard to the station's previous licence, which was granted under the Wireless Telegraphy Act, in that it was to cover not only the Bathurst area but also the entire Bathurst-Orange growth centre, which contains not only those two cities but also the town of Blayney. 
The very point in having a growth centre and having an amalgamation of centres surely should be that it is better served by one public broadcasting station rather than two or even three stations. The Department was not of the opinion that this should be so. It procrastinated as to whether it supported this idea in principle. It also said that it would not be possible for the applicants to make application for a translator licence, which was necessary to gain transmission into the Orange area. The physical features of the region were such that the translator was needed. Eventually, the Department agreed that there was no technical or philosophical objection to the granting of a translator licence. It agreed that the Bathurst-Orange area in totality should be served by the one station but it said that there were timing and technical difficulties and possibly legal difficulties that prevented it, at this stage, acceding to the applicants request that the hearing consider not only the original licence but also that for the translator. 
I believe that departments in general- I do not necessarily pick out the Department of Post and Telecommunications- must be prepared to cooperate with organisations and the public rather than take an obstructive and 'holier than thou' attitude. If there are difficulties, let us hear them. Let us have them explained on paper. If the principle is okay, let us say so. Let us not go through a protracted period of delays, procrastinations and excuses which only lead to extreme frustration amongst the people who are applying for these licences and those who represent them. As I have said, the Bills before us are non-contentious. I support them. I believe that they are the forerunner to a number of measures that will be undertaken by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  to tidy up the many loose ends that are still in existence in the whole of the Australian broadcasting industry. 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry advise the House of the total amount paid to beef producers under the Beef Industry (Incentive Payments) Scheme introduced to provide some cash flow to very hard pressed cattlemen? Will the Minister consider an extension of this type of scheme, particularly in view of the desperate situation that has now developed in northern Australia where widespread drought and bluetongue disease have further aggravated the situation? 
-I rise to participate in the discussion of this most important issue, not only because the issue is particularly important to the nation and to New South Wales but also because it is particularly important to my electorate which includes the towns of Lithgow, Wallerawang and Cullen Bullen. Prior to the redistribution it also included Ulan, the area which my friend the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O 'Keefe)  now represents. Those areas constitute almost the entirety of the western coalfields of New South Wales. Honourable members would well know that in towns like Lithgow the economy has been substantially and traditionally based on coal. I realise, now representing those areas, having taken them over from the particularly good representation of my colleague who is now the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard),  that there is tremendous potential in the western coalfields of New South Wales, a potential of proportions that is hardly to be seen anywhere else in New South Wales or in Australia. There is a significant proportion of the uncommitted world reserves of steaming coal in particular in that area. There is enormous potential for increasing the work force. The work force could be almost doubled within the next five or eight years. What areas in Australia can boast of that tremendous potential at present available in the western coalfields area of New South Wales? 
What a long way that is from the prediction in 1 964 of the present Minister for Mines and Energy in New South Wales,  Mr Hills,  I think, who said: 'Forget the coalmines; the Lithgow Valley will become a valley of small factories'. At that time the work force in the mining industry in the western coalfields area of New South Wales was declining. It was declining because of technology and mechanisation within the industry and because of the orders and the export prices which were available. The outlook at that time for the western fields was, to say the least, somewhat bleak. Now we see this enormous growth potential. We see confidence in the private sector. We see new mines being developed by the private sector. We see new loaders, handling equipment, and washing equipment; we see new sidings, roads and the whole infrastructure which goes with a substantial mining development. We see very significant improvements in conditions and awards and wages within the industry, which result in a spin-off to the whole area. We see companies which for the first time in many years, and in some cases for the first time ever, have been able to get away from the line ball operation, have been able to pay dividends and overcome some of their cash flow problems. They are prepared to put risk capital into a major venture of national importance. 
The key to all this development and to confidence in that development is the assurance of sufficient loading facilities so that we can meet these export opportunities. The Botany Bay coal loader was to be financed by the companies concerned and was to be operating before the end of this year. An undertaking was given by the previous coalition government in New South Wales to develop that facility and that undertaking has again been given by the leaders of the coalition parties. It seems to me to be somewhat ironic to hear complaints by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  about the environmental impact this will have on the Botany Bay area. I have before me a photograph of the Port Waratah coal and ship loading facilities. It seems somewhat ironic that in this photograph we can see that the main storage dump is within hundreds of yards of residential areas. It seems to me that there were no great objections to the expansion of the Balmain facility. Are not the people of Balmain and Newcastle as important as the people of Botany Bay? Quite obviously politically they are not. 
The Port Kembla alternative is one which is in complete limbo. There was to be a huge facility offshore to provide loading facilities for large carriers. It has now apparently been decided not to go ahead with that proposal. I say ' apparently ' because I cannot find out anything definite. I must admit that the prediction of the honourable member for Blaxland that there will be a 1 98 1 deadline for a 15 million tonne capacity loading unit has not been reiterated by the Premier of New South Wales. To my knowledge that is certainly not the case but I would be interested to receive the Press release if it is the case. What has happened to the rail link that was proposed for the development at Port Kembla? That seems to have been scrapped. The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  pointed out the quite ludicrous situation in which we would see southern and western coal going through the junction at Tempe which is virtually next door to the proposed facility at Botany Bay. Within the next seven months we face a shortfall of at least two million tonnes in contracts already signed for coal from these areas, contracts worth in the vicinity of at least $60m. 
What are we to do? Are we to leave it in the ground and put up with the retrenchments that will flow from that? Can we accept the criticism of  Mr Hills,  the Minister for Mines and Energy, who blames the situation on increased exports? He blames the companies that are prepared to get out and fight in a competitive market, in some cases very competitive because they have only low grade steaming coal. He blames these companies that are prepared to continue their operations to ensure continued employment, who are prepared to put risk capital into expansion of their businesses.  Mr Hills  was blaming those companies at the same time as his own Premier was enthusiastically claiming that New South Wales had tremendous potential for servicing the American market, the Californian market in particular. What does  Mr Wran  do? He tries to blame the Federal Government for policies that have apparently reduced steel demand in Australia. I suggest that he look back a little further to the record of the previous Labor Government in this place. Most of the problems arose from there. It is ironic that  Mr Wran  returned so wildly enthusiastic about these markets and these potentials. I only say that he will have to do a lot better than than. Wild enthusiasm in the face of reality will not ensure continued export contacts and continued development of the industry, particularly in the western coal fields area about which I am particularly concerned. 
Let us look at the extra charges that these companies are expected to pay. There is an additional levy of 90c per tonne on top of additional costs of some $2 port loading costs, $4 extra freight costs, and the totally ridiculous irony of a $ 1 levy on those companies. That levy is provided for the Newcastle harbour deepening program which is an ongoing project and which will not benefit the western or the southern coalfield companies. We are told that it is only a temporary measure to overcome a short term difficulty. It seems to me to be highly inequitable that these companies are required to pay, on top of all those other burdens, this $ 1 charge which is for a facility that will not be enjoyed by them in the future but by the Hunter Valley coalfields. 

 Mr Wran has given an undertaking that the western coalfields will not be disadvantaged in any way at all. The 90c levy, to the industry at Lithgow alone, will amount to some additional $2. 5m in the next seven months. This is a levy on an industry which was not going to be disadvantaged. The companies in the Lithgow area are required to pay demurrage on the days lost by the shippers and the freighters, because of those ships which we see caught up in the harbour at Port Kembla. 
I think the photograph that we saw in the media yesterday was a total indictment of the Wran Government.  Mr Wran  will have to do a lot more than this. He will have to do more than pose prettily beside his helicopter as we saw in a picture in the Press today. If he is to be the smiling saviour of the coal industry in New South Wales he had better hurry up and rectify the situation, because at the moment he is handing over opportunities to Queensland and to other countries. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 March 1 978: 
1 ) How many personal income taxpayers in New South Wales reside outside the major metropolitan complex of Newcastle, Sydney and Wollongong. 
What would be the cost to revenue of providing a  2Vi  per cent tax rebate to these taxpayers. 
Are there any constitutional barriers to the establishment of a differential tax rate by means of this rebate. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
What sums were paid under the Special Youth Employment Training Program (SYETP) and under the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training Scheme (CRAFT) in the Electoral Division of Calare during (a) 1976-77 and (b) the period 1 July 1977 to date. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Resources whether he has seen reports which suggest that a New South Wales Government-sponsored trade mission has discovered a new and substantial market in Saudi Arabia for Australian meat and opportunities for Australian participation in joint ventures there. What information can the Minister give about prospects for sales of Australian meat on this market? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
With reference to Question No. 311 of 1 March 1978, what would be the cost of installing suitable equipment to meter and charge calls in excess of 6 minutes duration in metropolitan areas of (a) Australia and (b) New South Wales. 
-I am delighted to have this opportunity not only to welcome but also to support the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on this very important dispute which affects this nation at present. The dispute is very important because the nation is entirely dependent, more so than most other countries, on effective, reliable and stable communication services. This places us in a unique position in the world. We require such communication services not only for our everyday personal use but also for business, enterprise and emergency uses. Thank goodness I can say that no major emergency has arisen during this dispute. We also require effective communication services within Australia and between ourselves and other countries to ensure our position in the world and to enable us to operate effectively as a major trading nation on the world scene. All those functions are being severely jeopardised at this time because of this unnecessary and irrational dispute. 
The Australian Telecommunications Commission is an efficient organisation. It is the largest business in Australia. It is not subsidised by the taxpayer, unlike most other communication networks in the world. It makes a very substantial profit. We should recall that that profit is used entirely for its capital program. That is what this debate is about. Part of that capital program is bringing in new technology to improve the services that are provided already by Telecom- services such as the upgrading of manual exchanges throughout Australia and reductions in trunk line charges. This is one of the few areas in the world where trunk line charges or subscriber trunk dialling charges, as we know them, are being reduced. The reductions are quite significant, not only for the areas close by the major metropolitan centres- reductions up to 20 per cent and 10 per cent respectively in daytime rates for the 85-kilometre radial and the 165 kilometre radial- but also very significant reductions for people who live in the very remote and isolated areas of Australia. For example, up to the 645 -kilometre radial there is a reduction of 20 per cent, and over the 645-kilometre radial there is a reduction of 25 per cent. This is an unusual situation in the world scenario, with a communications network making every effort not only to improve its services but also to reduce its charges. Of course, it is dependent on technological innovation. 
What is the Opposition trying to do? Is it prepared to throw away the opportunity to get better and cheaper services for all of Australia? Is it showing no concern for the inconvenience that is being perpetrated on families and businesses and the employment opportunities that are being jeopardised, not just by the ATEA members about whom the Opposition seems to be so concerned but also by other workers right throughout Australia who will inevitably have to be put off if this dispute continues to keep our telecommunications services at their present level. Australia has been beset by minority groups exercising their political muscle to make every Australian suffer. What side does the ALP take? Is the ALP really worried about wages lost by workers? Is it worried about the inconvenience that has been perpetrated on all Australians through this dispute? The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  showed a sham of concern in that he was prepared to support these minorities, making the whole of Australia suffer. The ATEA has refused to negotiate. It has ignored three proposals for settlement put forward by Commissioner Clarkson. It has refused to accept a cooling off period that has been proposed. I think it is time that every Australian had the opportunity to stand up and say that he is not prepared to be blackmailed. It is time the Government intervened as positively and effectively as it has done. 
I suggest that, if necessary, we go without telephones for weeks or even months in order to assert that community interests will be protected, to protect our livelihood and our freedom to do what we want to do, to conduct our businesses without the fear of a complete closedown in our communications systems. What is wrong with the principle of no work, no pay? It applies throughout most of private industry. Why does it not apply throughout the Public Service? I think it is about time that it was said as clearly as it was said tonight by both the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I believe that Telecom has been more than reasonable in attempting to settle this dispute and in attempting to abide by the requests and proposals put to it by Commissioner Clarkson. Yet we see the union concerned, a union that does not represent the large majority of the employees of Telecom - 
Yes, as my honourable friend says, one quarter. It is prepared to jeopardise the pay of its members. It is prepared to see $1.6m a fortnight being lost. It is prepared to see 3,000 of its members currently not employed and more to come. In spite of this there was an assurance that there would be no jobs lost through technological innovation, that jobs would be guaranteed, in some cases for 10 years, that there would be no pay loss. This is in an industry where we see very good working conditions, a 9-day fortnight and a 36%-hour week. What I am particularly concerned about is that Telecom was at the stage of making some very significant concessions and reductions in charges. We are aware that the subscriber trunk dialling charges would have been brought into effect from 26 November next. It would have meant a loss of revenue of some $30m. Yet we see that this strike so far has cost Telecom $20m and is currently running at the figure of $ 1 m per day. It is quite likely that the Commission will not be able to introduce some of these benefits and cost savings to the general public as a result of this loss of revenue. The effect in particular on country people and country industries will be very serious indeed. 
Further improvements were in the pipeline. As honourable members will know, the Commission is in the process of considering measures to increase local service areas, to extend the radial limits over which local call charges apply. We know that the Commission has made a very definite undertaking to upgrade every manual exchange in Australia in the next nine or 10 years. We know also that the Commission has recognised the plight of the people in very remote and isolated areas of Australia. The Minister himself well appreciates the great difficulties that people have where they cannot even have a local phone call to their local business centre. Some families have to pay 40c, 50c or 60c every time they get on the phone to their local business centre. The Commission was also looking at alleviating the hardship for people in that situation. But that has been put at risk and placed in jeopardy because of this dispute. I suggest that if this dispute does result in these concessions not being able to be applied, we might consider endorsing every telephone account on the next issue to show that the charges would have been lower but for this dispute and the consequent loss of revenue, so that every subscriber will realise the monetary effect of this dispute and the effects it has had on his hip pocket and on the account that he has to pay. 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  went further in our committee meeting and suggested that we should apply the lower charges at the next telephone accounting period and then add a surcharge to show how much the strike has cost individual subscribers. The only trouble is, as my honourable friend mentioned, that most people would not pay that surcharge. They would send it straight back to Telecom and say that it should make the ATEA members pay. The Opposition is in quite a bind. Does it support the vast mass of people who are suffering in this dispute? Does it support those people who have had a gutful of militant unionism in Australia? Does it support the families of the ATEA members who have suffered in this dispute and who in many cases have been dragged unwillingly into it? Or does it support this dispute as an irrational, unjustified, militant unionmotivated exercise, an exercise in which no member will lose his job or lose his salary? The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  said that people were struggling for survival in that particular union. I put it to him that Australia is struggling for survival against militant unionism such as this. 
The ALP has chosen to support the old line of supporting the strikers, with all the irrelevant rhetoric that it can muster about the poor oppressed workers who have never been better off than they are now. As long as the ALP supports the minority radicals, I suggest that it will receive support only from the minority radicals. I say: 'Keep it up, keep it going, because that philosophy will keep the ALP in the political wilderness for decades'. This Government will back Telecom to the hilt. It will protect the interests of all Australians and Australia's reputation overseas. I fully support the Prime Minister and I know that the vast majority of Australians will welcome the Government's stand. Moreover, I believe that the vast majority of Australians will say that we have to have it out sometime or other and this might as well be the opportunity as it has now presented itself. We are prepared to go without for a little longer so that we can make it quite clear to the minorities, the militants and the ALP that we are not prepared to let them run over us yet again. 
In conclusion, it would be remiss of me and other speakers not to pay some credit to some of the people who have been involved in trying to ameliorate the effects of this dispute. Some members of the staff at Telecom have been under tremendous pressure. Certainly those at the executive level of Telecom have been doing everything in their power to keep services going and to keep the services open. There is one group that we have overlooked. I would like to pay special credit to the girls on the switchboards right throughout Australia. They are the people who are collecting a lot of abuse. They have had no involvement in the strike and yet, in the face of much abuse from naturally irate subscribers, they have been able to ensure as far as possible that services can be utilised and, particularly in the case of emergency, that services can be kept going. Therefore I believe that it is of great importance that this Parliament should make it quite clear that we are prepared to support the Australian Telecommunications Commission and that we are not prepared to bow down at this stage. I commend the Prime Minister's statement and the speeches made in this House by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Resources whether he is able to tell the House what results have come from a recent visit to Australia of representatives of the China National Metals and Minerals Import and Export Corporation? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. In the edition of the Sydney  Daily Mirror  on Thursday, 7 September, it was claimed by  Mr Rex  Jory, a Canberra correspondent, that I, as  chairman  of the Government's communications committee, had indicated that a particular scheme was under examination by the Government which involved the metering of local phone calls over and above six minutes. Furthermore, the writer claimed that the Government's committee was examining this as an option and that the committee would be reporting to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  on that specific issue. 
When questioned on this matter over the phone by  Mr Jory  I denied that the Government was considering this. I also informed him that the committee had not considered it specifically and that the committee was not compiling a report on that subject for the Minister's consideration. I was completely mis-reported in those sections of the story. 
The story arose from questions placed on notice by me and the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  in relation to the costs of installing the equipment necessary to meter local phone calls over six minutes duration and the expected revenue gained therefrom. The rest of the reporting was accurate and reflected my own personal views. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications been drawn to today's report in the  Australian  that cutbacks will occur in Australian Broadcasting 
Commission rural programs? Does the Minister appreciate the enormous significance of ABC rural programs for farmers in providing management and market information for their business operations? Is the Minister aware that  Horizon  5- the only national television program dealing with rural matters and providing an essential link between country and city people- is to be chopped in 1979? Can the Minister indicate to the House the Government's view of the importance of ABC radio and television programming to rural areas? 
I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether he has found it necessary to dial a prayer recently. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) How many of the 1,483,402 telephone services in New South Wales referred to in the 1976-77 Annual Report of Telecom were located within (a) the Sydney Telephone Zone, (b) the Sydney Telephone District 02 and (c) the broad area bounded by and including the Newcastle, Penrith, Campbelltown and Wollongong districts. 
Does the criterion used to determine metropolitan areas in the 1976-77 Annual Report of 24.1 km radius in Sydney and Melbourne correspond to the local call area for the respective metropolitan areas. 
How many telephone subscribers in New South Wales can call Sydney between the hours of 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. for (a) 18c or less, (b) 45c or less, (c) 90c or less, (d) $1.35 or less, (e) $1.80 or less, (f) $2.02 or less and (g) $2.70 or less for 3 minutes. 
What criteria are used by Telecom to determine the boundaries of local service areas. 
What criteria are used by Telecom to program the upgrading of manual exchanges to automatic operation in country areas. 
-I direct my question to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the increasing incidence of acts of extremism and violence exhibited by certain radical organisations and (heir members, can the Minister indicate to what extent governments can be held responsible for such acts, particularly acts of self-immolation and other forms of suicide? 
-Tonight, unlike other speakers, I wish to speak about roads. Grants to the States for roads have maintained their values in real terms. In 1977-78 the allocation to the States for road works was $478m. For 1978-79, the current financial year, it has been increased by some $30m to $508m, an increase of nearly 7 per cent. I would like to take New South Wales as an example of the situation pertaining to road funding in Australia at the moment. The allocations for New South Wales for the various road categories show that for rural arterials the allocation was $ 19.2m, for rural locals $27.6m, and for urban arterials $30.7m, making a total of $77.5m. I remind honourable members that in New South Wales not one cent of State funding is allocated to rural local roads. The total cost of rural local roads is borne by the Commonwealth and by the ratepayers of the various local government councils concerned. 
I have used those three categories as examples for a specific purpose. Of all the States, New South Wales is the only one that to my knowledge has still not provided its priorities to the Commonwealth for approval for funding. All other States provided that information within the normal period of time. Some four months of the financial year have expired and still New South Wales has not indicated to the Commonwealth its priorities for approval for funding. One might well ask why. Concern has been expressed right throughout New South Wales by local government councils in telegrams similar to the one I have here from the Blayney Shire Council in my electorate protesting that no advice has been received from either Federal or State sources of the amount or basis of rural local road grants in New South Wales, despite the passage of time. Without being too cynical, we should recall that only recently there was a State election, and I suggest that the New South Wales Minister might have found it rather embarrassing to put forward his priorities. They would have shown up all too clearly the fact that the New South Wales Government provides no money whatsoever for rural local roads, that very important area of road funding that provides funds to councils for employment and provides service to rural dwellers. It would have been embarrassing when the New South Wales Government went out of its way to woo country electorates in an attempt to win a number of them. I think it is worth recording that despite the very substantial swing to the Government in New South Wales only two country seats were lost by the coalition Opposition. 
As my colleague from Macarthur reminds me, they were lost by a very narrow majority. It is also worth noting that some of the seats the New South Wales Government was almost assured of winning, so it believed, were not held. This was due partly to the fact that people in electorates such as Bathurst realised that one of their great problems, namely, the condition of the roads, was not being dealt with in the way it should be by the New South Wales Government. To my knowledge, there is still no word about whether the New South Wales Government wishes to have an allocation of some $77.5m for its roads program, and I think that that is a situation that needs to be noted by the community and by members of this House. The time is long overdue for us to try to find some formula whereby the shilly-shallying and fiddling that goes on with the States over Commonwealth road funding was prevented. We have seen this fiddling time and time again when funds have been allocated by the Commonwealth for certain road categories. There have been delays and there have been transfers within that incredibly mysterious system of accounting within State governments. In many cases, the funds that we wanted allocated for certain categories have not been so allocated. I need not pick out New South Wales as the only guilty State in this regard. Other States, namely, Victoria and to a lesser extent Queensland, are also guilty. 
I come now to a situation which I believe is very serious, and I refer to the state of Australian roads at the moment. I hardly need to remind honourable members of the critical need for standard roads in Australia- for trade, for decentralisation, for defence, and for various other purposes. A situation has been developing for many years where the alternative to our road network, namely, the railways network, is hopeless to say the least. More and more heavy transport vehicles are using our more and more inadequate road systems. This results in a serious breakdown of road surfaces, which has been accentuated even further by the wet weather conditions that have prevailed in the last few months. Road safety standards are being very seriously eroded, and it will not be very long before there is a major accident involving school children or a bus or whatever it might be which can be attributed directly to the bad state of our national roads and highways. I have doubts about whether we can effectively maintain our road networks, let alone find the funds to construct new highways and new arterial roads or to upgrade those that we have at present. 
It is rather ironic that in many other countries which have a much smaller geographical distribution of population than Australia, and I refer to many of the European countries and Japan, they have vastly superior road networks in spite of the fact that at the same time they have vastly superior railway networks. Australian roads are approaching a disastrous situation. As I have mentioned, this is due to the long distances and low traffic volumes of our roads. It is due partly to the inadequacy of our railway systems. It is very much due to the disastrous decline in road funding experienced during the regime of the Commonwealth Labor Government. It is also due to the very real need for this Government to restrict expenditure to try to overcome some of the enormous economic difficulties it inherited when it came into power in 1 975. 
I think it is time for a thorough review of road funding. I suggest that it is well and truly time for an inquiry to be undertaken into current and possible future sources of road funding in order to determine the funding needs of the various road categories, including the maintenance and upgrading of existing roads and the construction of new highways and arterial roads. It is time to look at the taxes and charges collected by all levels of government to see whether a higher proportion of those charges should be allocated to road construction and maintenance. It is time to see whether we can utilise more cost-efficient methods of constructing and maintaining roads, and I refer particularly to the use of private contractors and private sources of funds from which we could get much better value for dollars expended as far as output and productivity are concerned in relation to road construction and maintenance. 
Lastly, we should investigate fully the cost benefit relationships of financing the construction of new highway networks, urban freeways, and major developmental roads or tourist roads by loan funds raised either in this country or overseas, to be repaid partly or wholly by the imposition of road user tolls. The concept of tolls has not been accepted in Australia for a number of reasons that I have not been able to determine, but it is a system that has been widely accepted in many overseas countries. Personally, I believe that if high standard roads, both intercapital and intra-State, were to be provided, the users would not object to covering the cost of those roads through a toll system. Technology is available throughout the world, particularly tunnelling technology, which would enable us to provide high standard roads. I believe that if we could apply a user-pays principle through tolling some of our road networks, we could release some of the limited funds that are available to upgrade and reconstruct the very badly deteriorated urban and rural arterial and rural local road networks. 
-In speaking to the estimates of this Department, I would like to make some general comments on employment. I emphasise that word 'employment'. Whenever we are talking about unemployment, so often we forget to put it in the context of the total labour force in Australia and those who are currently employed. I invite a comparison of figures for August of this year with those of August 1975. The 1975 figures show that some 5,841,000 people were in employment then whereas the latest figures I have to hand reveal that 5,969,000 people were employed in August this year. In that three-year period, there has been an increase of 128,000 in the number of persons employed in the work force. 
Admittedly over that same period a significant increase has occurred in the number of people unemployed. In August 1975, some 278,000 persons were unemployed. In August 1978, the figure stood at 395,000. The net increase in that period was 1 17,000. However, let us not forget that those figures for the unemployed include people who are normally in the process of looking for work. On some studies, as recently reported, that element may account for up to 40 per cent of those registered. That figure also includes those people who are looking for a job of their own choosing. Again that inflates the figure. Further, those figures also include persons who are now unemployed or seeking work but who resigned voluntarily from their previous employment. Certain figures such as have been brought forward from the Australian Bureau of Statistics show that that component again can be up to 30 per cent or 40 per cent. I find unemployment data very confusing. We have at least four sources of data concerning the unemployed, namely, the Commonwealth Employment Service, the Australian Bureau of Statistics, certain surveys undertaken by the Department of Social Security and that information provided by independent surveys, notably certain consultants within the Australian economy. Let us put the matter into some perspective by looking at the figures for registered unemployed and the increase that has ensued over the years. In August 1974, some 140,000 people were registered as unemployed. In August 1975, those registered as unemployed totalled 278,000, an increase of 97.6 per cent in one year. The figure in August 1976 was 292,000, an increase of 5. 1 per cent. In 1977, 359,000 persons were unemployed, representing an increase of 22.8 per cent. In August 1978, an increase of 9.9 per cent was registered with 395,000 persons unemployed. Let us not forget that incredible increase of 97.6 per cent between August 1974 and August 1975 in the number of persons registered as unemployed. 
Let us look also at the unemployment benefit payments and the percentage increase we have seen over recent years in that respect. I quote now from a recent publication by the Australian Industries Development Association which contains quite an illuminating graph. In 1973-74, unemployment benefit claimants totalled 33,800. In 1974-75, the number rocketed to 120,600, an increase in one year of 256 per cent which is surely an all time record for any Western democracy. In 1975-76, there were 193,200, an increase of 60 per cent. In 1976-77, 219,700 persons claimed the benefit, an increase of 14 per cent. In 1977-78 the number of claimants stood at 268,300, an increase of 22 per cent. Again we see the same story revealed by these figures. Registered unemployed increased by 97.6 per cent from August 1974 to August 1975. Unemployment benefit claimants in the period 1 973-74 to 1 974-75 increased by 256 per cent. 
I could spend time on the causes and the various reasons for this explosion in the number of unemployed, particularly during 1974-75. Without going into the matter in any depth, I certainly venture the opinion that penalty rates, award levels, equal pay provisions, adult pay provisions, loadings including the 17 1/2 per cent holiday loading, wage taxes, payroll taxes and associated costs such as workers compensationwhich to some extent are the responsibility of the States- have all contributed to the problem that we face at the moment. Not inconsequential is the latest example of industrial disputation and dislocation. Right at this time in New South Wales, as we have just been discussing, thousands of people are out of work, hopefully temporarily, because of industrial disputes and strikes. , 
-Would the honourable member debate that? I believe that there are somewhere in the vicinity of 3,000 to 4,000 people who are temporarily out of work as a result of the present oil strike in New South Wales. Unemployment is, supposedly, the most critical issue facing Australia but I find it rather perplexing that it has not been necessarily so in my experience. I found it rather perplexing recently when I looked through my appointment book to discover that in nearly three years fewer than 10 people have written to me, telephoned my office or made personal representations to me about the difficulties they personally are experiencing in finding jobs. Certainly there have been letters and representations to me which deal with the unemployment problem generally but from an individual point of view I find it very perplexing that so few people appear to be sufficiently motivated to come to me to seek assistance or at least to make a complaint. I also find it rather perplexing that when one seeks the services of tradesmen, such as bricklayers, one cannot find them. They are supposed to have had great difficulty in obtaining work yet they are not available for months when one tries to get them. When one does get a tradesman one often finds that the tradesman has great difficulty in engaging reliable labour, or any labour at all. Yesterday when a person came to my house to do some bricklaying, he said that he would be 'there tomorrow providing the troops turn up'. So often they do not. 
One group has been hard hit, particularly in regional and country areas. I refer to the very large number of young people who are genuinely trying to gain employment but finding it difficult to secure, particularly in country areas. In closing, I comment on two schemes that this Government has provided to assist youth employment. The first is the Special Youth Employment Training Program with which I agree in principle. I think it is a worthwhile scheme. However, there are some anomalies in it that need to be sorted out. There were difficulties at times with employers experiencing great delays in getting payments from the Department. I believe that the period of employment required before employers are eligible for the subsidy is too short and that in some circumstances it has been open to abuse. 
I mention also the Community Youth Support Scheme which has been criticised by honourable members opposite and others as being a mickey mouse scheme. I believe that it has considerable merit in that it provides for a great degree of community involvement, awareness and cooperation. However, often we have found when looking for community co-operation that the people opposed to the scheme were the unionists and the trades and labour councils who are particularly concerned that young people in work experience programs within factories or on the shop floor might jeopardise the jobs and employment of some of their members. In my opinion the guidelines that have been drawn up for the CYSS leave much to be desired. Because of the prohibitions they contain, the guidelines do not back up the thrust of the scheme. They prohibit certain activities, such as the production of goods for sale, activities which assist young people to find job placement, and activities such as counselling. I believe that the guidelines are not in keeping with the true thrust of the scheme. They are either too restrictive or their interpretation has been too restrictive. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of the very considerable concern expressed by regional television stations at the recommendations of the satellite task force? Will the Minister allow further time for discussion of the task force report, as requested by both the regional television stations group and the media workers' council? Does the Minister have any further information on the proposal to lease Intelsat facilities on a pilot basis? 
-In the brief time available to me to speak to the appropriation for the Postal and Telecommunications Department, I want to mention a number of issues concerning the operations of the Australian Telecommunications Commission. This week Telecom announced a profit of $ 185m for 1977-78. 1 remind the Committee that this profit represents a return on capital- Telecom's capital being some $6.6 billion- of 2.7 per cent. I think it might be appropriate for Telecom to determine that it will refer to this so-called profit in different terminology because the total extent of that profit of $185m is returned to the organisation in the form of capital and asset investment. Telecom is the largest employer in Australia. I believe that it has shown an efficiency of service across the board that has given it a reputation of being a large semi-government authority that has been able to produce a service without subsidy or subvention from the Treasury. In fact, next month we will see substantial reductions in charges, applying particularly to the nonmetropolitan areas of Australia. I hope that that reduction in charges will continue and also that cognisance will be given by Telecom to the disabilities that are experienced by people who live very great distances from the capital cities. 
The reductions so far have applied to the areas closest to the capital cities. I am sure that many of my colleagues, including the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr FitzPatrick)  who is in the chamber, would agree that the reductions in charges should apply, at least initially, to those areas which are suffering the greatest disadvantage from telecommunications charges. Tonight I mention two issues that relate to the rights of Telecom subscribers. The first issue concerns a dispute that may occur concerning the charges for metered calls. I recognise that in at least 80 per cent or more of the disputes that arise, the fault can be traced to the subscriber. There are numerous cases where subscribers do not recognise that there has been a change of circumstances in their family or in their business where there could have been an increase in the number of calls for which charges are levied. Nevertheless, when one looks at the final analysis, the subscriber has no right of redress in the event of an ultimate dispute on metered call charges. Telecom says that there are some options available which can solve this problem but, in fact, the options are not real. 
One of the options is to install subscriber trunk dialling unit meters whereby a check can be made of the calls that originate from a particular service. These meters are not widely available and they cannot be used in every case because they have to be related to certain technical facilities within exchanges. The second option that is provided by Telecom is a rental service whereby a key is installed so that the use of the telephone can be controlled. Again, I do not believe that that is a substantial option. The third option is that if there is a dispute it is suggested to the subscriber that he should book his calls through the trunk system. That surely negates the whole philosophy of providing an STD system. One example, I think, is worth referring to, but I will not identify the person concerned in this debate although I think it is a worthwhile example. One particular subscriber whose case has been drawn to my attention had the following telephone accounts: In November 1975 the charge for metered calls was $28.35- honourable members will see that he is not a very heavy user of the telephone service- in May 1976 his account was $32.3 1; in November 1976 it was $28.80; in May 1977 it was $37.80; in November 1977 it was $35.64 and in May 1978 it was $191.88. There has been no change whatsoever in his circumstances. Obviously there is something wrong in the State of Denmark. There must be some technical error whereby that type of account can be sent out for metered call charges. The reply that I received from Telecom is rather interesting. It states: 
Following your representations further investigations were carried out and, although no faults were found, it has been decided that the account should be adjusted to a figure more in keeping with the normal account . . . 
Whilst I certainly welcome the flexibility shown by Telecom in being able to take cognisance of the previous pattern of charges, nevertheless it opens up a number of matters of concern. Telecom has a very effective method of checking calls on a recording system which, of course, is not freely available to the subscriber, so the subscriber has to accept the word of Telecom that its equipment is in order. I think that the solution might be more easily found- I know that it has been suggested- if a system were to be instituted whereby local calls can be metered and, if they can be metered, they can therefore be charged for. At one stage I placed a question on notice requesting information about the capital cost that would be required should Telecom decide to institute a metering system on local calls whereby after six minutes, for each three minute part thereof calls could be charged at the unit call rate. I was advised that the capital cost of taking such a course of action would be some $45 m and that the additional revenue so gained in one year would be $38m. I suggest that we might be able to apply the user-pays principle right across the nation so that people who make local calls can be charged on a time basis, with the revenue gained thereby being used to offset the very serious disabilities experienced by country people in regard to their telecommunications charges. 
A second case concerns the rights and freedoms of the individual- subscriber. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  would be well aware of a case that arose last week in which a particular company decided that it would promote certain advertising revenue sources by producing a cover which could be applied to a telephone directory. It sought legal advice and its solicitor determined that under the by-laws of the Australian Telecommunications 
Commission it would not be breaching the law because the by-laws related to covers which could enclose rather than be adhered to the cover of a telephone directory. The particular by-law states: 
A directory supplied free of charge or sold by the Commission, shall not, without the written consent of the Commission, be enclosed in covers in or upon which advertisements are displayed. 
The by-law goes on to state that if that is the case, the subscriber is liable to a penalty of $20. The company went ahead on that legal advice to produce this type of promotional material whereupon the Australian Telecommunications Commission expanded the by-laws to include that type of cover. I am not advancing the case of this particular company but I think that it raises an issue of significance in that we need to look at the capacity of the Commission to make by-laws, apparently without reference to the Minister. If honourable members look at section 1 1 1 of the Act they will find that the Commission has very wide powers to make by-laws. For example, the Commission may make by-laws with respect to the establishment, maintenance, operation and provision of telecommunications services and facilities- a very wide spectrum of responsibility indeed- and with respect to the terms and conditions governing the provision to or use by any person of telecommunications services or facilities. I suggest that the Commission look at those by-laws because, if it were to enforce that by-law in relation to the individual citizen who has a telephone directory in his own home, how on earth could it insist on rights of entry? I believe that it would infringe the rights and liberties of an individual citizen to enter his home to inspect the cover of his telephone directory to see whether it is covered or has adhering to it particular promotional material with advertising on it. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Transport, concerns rural local road allocations to councils in New South Wales. Is he aware of the grave financial difficulties caused to local councils by the fourmonth delay in announcing rural local road allocations? Did the New South Wales Minister for Roads provide any explanation for this inordinate delay in forwarding the rural local road priorities for New South Wales? Is the Minister aware that many individual councils have not received anything like the increase in rural local road allocations that applied to the whole State? Can the Minister ensure that Commonwealth funds for certain road categories are not misdirected by the States into other categories? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) In the event of a dispute over metered call charges what legal resource is available to a telephone subscriber who is not prepared to accept Telecom 's account for metered calls. 
What action can telecom take to recover outstanding moneys where a subscriber refuses to pay an account. 
What were the changes in total charges for reverse charged calls (reverse charge and surcharge fees) during (a) 1975, (b) 1976 and (c) 1977, and from what dates did these charges become operative. 
-Tonight I would like to take an overview of some of the activities of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation not only in an historical perspective but also in a current perspective. I should like to talk also about where this Organisation might be heading in the future. Before I do I would like to comment on the legislation that is now before the House and the statement that was brought down earlier this year following the inquiry by the Birch Committee into the structure, functions and future roles and purposes of the Organisation. This, of course, was the first major examination of the CSIRO since 1949, at which time a new Act was incorporated to establish the CSIRO as we now know it. Of course the history of the Organisation goes back much further than that. It replaced the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research which was established in 1926. There has been 50 years plus of extremely efficient, dedicated and capable service by that Organisation and its predecessor to all aspects of industry in Australia. 
The legislation before this House at the moment gives effect to many of the recommendations from the Birch Committee of inquiry. The CSIRO is in many ways the envy of the world in that, as a single statutory body largely financed by government, it has with the necessary degree of independence been able to embark on major research programs and major research efforts that have in general been most applicable to the industries that the CSIRO has served. I think that this places it in a rather unique situation. It is a large organisation, employing a staff of some 7,000 in various categories. It has experienced the creation of a multiplicity of new divisions. At the moment there is somewhere in the vicinity of 35 to 37 separate research divisions within the Organisation. At present it operates on an annual appropriation of some $140m from the Commonwealth Government. 
The Bill and the statement to which it gives effect essentially broaden the powers, functions and responsibilities of the Organisation. The Bill provides for a revision of the management structure by reducing the size of the Executive and changing the structure to co-ordinate the large number of divisions that have grown up to form six institutes which broadly incorporate similar types of divisions with similar research aims and aspirations. Most importantly, it further develops the statutory mechanism for the provision of advisory councils to advise the Executive of the Organisation as to the needs, requirements and demands of industry. It does this also in association with individual State advisory committees. 
One point about this legislation that appeals to me is that the advisory councils and advisory committees will have separate staffs and separate executives from that of the Organisation. Likewise the legislation provides for consultative mechanisms whereby matters pertaining to the internal organisation of the staff and the Organisation can be discussed in a formally established Consultative Council. Further, the legislation provides that a policy statement shall be handed down in each annual report clearly outlining the objectives of the various research programs and, I would hope, clearly outlining their applicability to the industry they serve. I think that this is an important development in that until now there has not been a requirement within the old Act that the Organisation must clearly and regularly determine its policy areas and the objectives of its research programs. 
The Bill provides also for the collection and interpretation of a wide variety of information and its dissemination to the Australian public and to Australian industries. One aspect that I particularly like is the means by which the Organisation can more easily co-operate, become involved with and in fact form companies and partnerships with the private and commercial sectors. This is one means by which I am sure the Organisation will be able to maintain a close link and liaison with industry. 
The Organisation's major role remains as it was and that is to be an organisation that is concerned basically with physical and biological research and with much lesser emphasis on economic research, research into social areas and research into human biology and human medicine. Furthermore, the basic thrust of the Organisation remains in that there shall not be a readily obvious direction by the Government, through Ministers, as to the direction of research programs undertaken by the Organisation. That is to be left to the Organisation. I think that the track record of the CSIRO shows that it has been a very wise move not to interfere overly with the objectives and directions of its research programs. 
My association with the Organisation is marginal. The radio telescope at Parkes is in my electorate. It is a rather unique facility. It is the largest fully-steerable radio telescope in the world- at least it was at the time it was constructed- and it has been at the forefront of some interesting and exciting discoveries in the fields of radio electronics and astronomy. The research into quasars and pulsars that has been undertaken at Parkes has had profound effects on that area of scientific research. I understand that it was at Parkes that some of the organic molecules that exist in interstellar gas clouds were first identified. This discovery opened up many areas of conjecture as to whether life exists in other parts of the universe. At a more pragmatic level the development of low noise and highly screened amplifiers has assisted organisations such as the Australian Telecommunications Commission to develop transmitters that may assist in bringing telecommunications to everybody in Australia. I must say also that the telescope at Parkes has one of the most brilliantly conceived and executed public relations exercises that I have ever seen. The audio visual program which is provided for the benefit of interested persons and tourists is the most magnificently organised and portrayed exercise I have seen. 
Of course, the CSIRO is concerned with more than just astronomy. It is very much concerned with energy research- not only the new frontiers of solar energy but also some new looks at old systems, particularly the production of oil from coal by various means, and energy conservation. Another major spin-off from the CSIRO 's fundamental pure research has been the exciting development of the new microwave landing system for aircraft, the InterScan system, which has been readily accepted by the majority of the countries of the world. That to me is an example of the value of the Organisation, particularly of the way in which the Organisation can collaborate with other departments and agencies, hopefully on a financially acceptable basis, in developing innovations which will win world-wide recognition. 
In closing I refer to a subject that concerns me a little. Within the inquiry's report it is indicated, albeit in a rather quiet fashion, that the emphasis hitherto shown by the Organisation on agricultural and biological research should be reviewed. I read this to mean that there should be some diminution of the Organisation's efforts in this area and that perhaps it should be handed over more to the State departments of primary industry and agriculture. I want to express some concern on this subject. Rural industry has supported the CSIRO for many years, largely through the collection of levies for the operation of the research programs that affect rural industry. I think that that has been a satisfactory arrangement. It is also a financing arrangement which to my knowledge has not been applied on a large scale to other industries, particularly secondary industry. I think that it would be unfortunate indeed if the levies collected through rural industry for research into rural industry were not as fully utilised as they have been in the past. 
The CSIRO also has an independent capacity to conduct rural research into various areas of rural industry. It has an independent capacity which to some degree the State departments do not have. Furthermore, I would point out that rural industry as such, being a fragmented industry and an industry that is still largely dependent on family farms and farmers, does not have the capacity itself to conduct the research that is necessary whereas in so many areas of secondary industry and mining there are large corporations which already have a large research and development input. I want to draw the attention of the House to some of the major breakthroughs and innovations in rural industry that are attributable to the CSIRO. These in no mean degree have allowed rural industry in Australia to progress and to compete on world markets with many of our products. The whole of the boom in northern Australia and Queensland in particular is largely attributable to the development of new species, management systems and breeds that has been undertaken by the Division of Tropical Pastures, the Division of Animal Production, the field stations, the large animal research laboratory at Rockhampton, the field station at Belmont and the development of new breeds and strains of sheep by the Division of Animal Genetics. Likewise at the other end of the continent- Victoriathere have been major advances in fodder conservation, again largely attributable to the CSIRO 's research input. 
The Australian National Animal Health Laboratory, which is financed by the Commonwealth but administered by the CSIRO, again provides a new facility which is most essential for Australia in view of her isolation and dependence at present on diagnostic facilities overseas, particularly in relation to exotic viruses and bacteria. Furthermore, the CSIRO is involved in areas that seldom become obvious to the general public. It has conducted very substantial research into forest management, the behaviour of fires, fire hazards and buildings- for example, the role of radiata posts and end structures in fencing and new fencing methods. It has been involved in a whole host of things. 
Let us not forget some of the major advances that were made by the CSIRO in the past. I refer to the entire development of the 90-mile desert area of South Australia, and to a lesser extent deserts in Western Australia, where, through trace element research, production of pastures and animals has been vastly improved. The story of myxomatosis and rabbits is almost legendary in this country although, again, it is seldom reported. I also refer to the work that CSIRO did for the sheep industry in Australia on all the chemical and genetic aspects of blowfly strike. Further, I refer to developments in wool processing and wool textile technology which nave led to major innovations in scouring and textile research, particularly in the case of woollen garments. These developments have given us a very real competitive edge in world markets. 
One could go on at much greater length to demonstrate the significance of CSIRO and the effect that that body has had, particularly on Australia's rural industry. I do not believe that the research effort should be diminished in any way. I certainly believe that CSIRO has a role to look at other areas of research in industry, particularly as they may affect the level of employment of people already within an industry. I imagine it is quite legitimate for CSIRO to look at the effects of technology, automation and new techniques and processes in terms of industry output and employment opportunities. 
Furthermore, I think the organisation has become more associated with some of the conservation issues and some of the broader social issues that presently concern people in our society. I find it significant that the cover of the CSIRO 's latest annual report is related to alpine ecology. This is an area that would not have been thought of a few years ago. I believe that the legislation before us is welcome. I am pleased to see that the Opposition will not oppose it in any way. I would like to conclude my speech by saying that I am delighted to see that independence of the CSIRO is being guaranteed. I hope that further funds can be incorporated into appropriations for CSIRO in the future. I certainly hope that the effort that the organisation has made in the area of rural industry research will not be diminished. I support this legislation. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
What is (a) the location of bridges and causeways in Australia where a toll is charged for their use and (b) the level of toll charged in each case. 
What is (a) the location (b) the length and (c) the charges for use of road tollways in Australia. 
Has the Bureau of Transport Economics or any other Government instrumentality undertaken studies on tollways in Australia, their cost benefit relationships and their acceptability to the travelling public. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
How many telephone subscribers are connected to manual telephone exchanges in Australia. 
When is it estimated that (a) 50 per cent and (b) 90 per cent of those subscribers will be connected to automatic exchanges. 
Why has the free installation limit for connection of new subscribers to manual exchanges been held at 8 km while the limit for connection to automatic exchanges is 16 km. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
1 ) Is the Small Arms Factory at Lithgow, NSW pan of Australia's defence infra-structure; if so, what proportion of its output is currently directly attributable to defence purposes. 
What plans does the Government have both in the short and long term for the Small Arms Factory. 
What (a) was the staff strength of the factory during (i) 1973, (ii) 1976 and (iii) 1977 and (b) is the staff strength at the present time. 
What was the apprenticeship intake at the factory during the same periods. 
Have the Government's staff ceilings affected the output and employment capacity of the factory. 
-Before coming to the subject I wish to raise I must congratulate the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett).  I suggest that all honourable members who are listening to the broadcast in this House might take the trouble tomorrow to read what he said. In the short time available to me I wish to raise some concerns I have about new postage rates that are to be introduced from 1 January next year which apply to registered publications, particularly those in category A. These increased postage rates represent substantial rises. Honourable members will recall that the general standard postage rate was increased for the first time for a number of years this year, representing an 1 1 per cent increase. However, when we look at the situation in regard to registered periodicals, particularly category A, we find that the increases are much more substantial than that. They range from between 30 per cent to SO per cent. This applies to standard and nonstandard articles. 
The categories that are hit hardest are those weight categories in which most newspapers face. It is this aspect that I wish to discuss today. The history of the concessional rates for registered publications, of course, is quite a long one. At the time that it was introduced it provided some concession for what were regarded as essential publications for people living in rural and remote areas. This subsidy has been an internal one since the Australian Postal Commission was formed. It has pointed out that the continued concession in that particular area creates a net loss to its operating costs of some $15m. The last report of Australia Post, stated that the Commission had made it clear that it intended to recover a greater proportion of this particular cost for the registered publications category. However, I must take issue with the Commission because it said that in the years ahead it would aim to close the gap by reducing somewhat, albeit gradually, the extent of the concessions. I find it hard to accept that a 50 per cent increase at the one time is a gradual measure to close the gap. It is important because the increase in postal rates affects not only remote areas but also a broader spectrum of the community. I would point out that many charitable voluntary organisations, religious associations, trade union organisations- a multiplicity of organisations- have been able to benefit from the subsidised postage rate. Maybe too many organisations have taken advantage of the subsidised postage rate and that may have created the problem. I suggest that the Commission look at this matter. 
In certain weight categories there are also very substantial rises for small local newspapers. This does not affect the people in the cities anywhere near the same extent as it affects those in country areas. Most local newspapers in country areas provide a very essential service for that particular area, not only with local news but also with market reports, wheather reports and all sorts of local information which, of course, is not available through the major metropolitan dailies. Many of these newspapers are also in difficulties and have had to increase their prices to a figure which, in many cases, is well beyond that of the metropolitan dailies. We now see a situation where a small, say a 12-page tabloid rural newspaper, will cost some 30c to 35c at the point of delivery by mail. That, of course, is the increased postage rate plus the subscription rate. I am more concerned, however, about the people who reside in the very remote areas of Australia and who we seem to forget so often in our urbanised country. 
I was even going to mention, for the honourable member, the migrant publications that are very important and which come within this category. I am sure he would be very concerned on that basis. The people who live in the very remote areas of Australia are suffering extreme disabilities, certainly not so much in my electorate but in electorates in Western Australia and north Queensland where they have no television, virtually no radio, very few roads, very poor health services and they are endeavouring to teach their children by correspondence. Now, on top of all that, we find that their only means of really communicating with the rest of Australia- through their mailed newspapers- will cost more. They will now suffer an increase of 42.9 per cent in postal rates. 
I cannot fully accept the arguments put by Australia Post. I believe that there certainly needs to be some closing of that gap. But if we are going to apply the user pays principle as viciously as this then I believe there are many other areas in the operation of Australia Post where the user pays principle is not being applied. A very small increase in charges in other areas would obviate what I think is quite a severe discrimination against people who can least afford it. I suggest that Australia Post reconsider the position that it has taken. It may at least assure Australian postal users, particularly the people I have mentioned, that further increases will not be considered in the immediate future. Certainly, the increase of SO per cent is placing a severe cost burden on the people to whom I have referred. Furthermore, I find that other areasparticularly in the communications field- are affecting rural Australia. 
I refer to telecommunications matters. Whilst I congratulate the Telecommunications Commission for announcing that it will be upgrading all manual exchanges within the next ten year at a cost of $300m, nevertheless, I still find that rural Australia is experiencing many disadvantages. I take a particular case which is parochial. I represent the towns that are contained within the Bathurst-Orange growth centre. We know that STD rate concessions right across the board will be applicable from 26 November. But we find, because of the arbitrary limits on radial distances, that the city of Bathurst will now have a 10 per cent concession applied to business calls whereas the city of Orange, 50 kilometres away, will not have this concession. 
We now have the rather ludicrous situation where, if somebody were looking at the Bathurst-Orange growth centre as an area for decentralising, he would look at communication costs because they are in fact one of the largest cost factors in determining whether a company should decentralise. He will find that the cost of telephone calls from Bathurst to Sydney are 40 per cent cheaper than they are from Orange to Sydney. I think this is indicative of some of the inflexibility that we find in semi-government statutory authorities. I believe that telecommunications charges are one of the most serious disincentives to decentralisation in Australia. Rightly, the Telecommunications Commission claims that under its charter it has no responsibility specifically for decentralisation. I agree. But it also has within its charter a requirement, as does Australia Post, to take special notice of the needs and requirements of those people in Australia who live outside the major metropolitan areas. 
I come now to another point concerning communications. I refer to the Australian Broadcasting Commission which is a sensitive issue at the moment. I find it rather ironic that when there are complaints about government cutbacks and certainly complaints about the staff elected Commissioner- we find that the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staff Association takes action against those people who are least concerned and who will be hurt the most. I refer to the threat by the Staff Association to reduce the rural services of the ABC. The rural services of the ABC, unlike most of its other services, provide a very necessary means of communication for people in rural Australia. It is not simply a matter of finding out what technical advice one can get for spraying crops; it is an essential matter of market reporting, weather reporting, meetings and matters such as grain silo opening hours. The ABC provides a very necessary service. It is perplexing to me. 
The reduction of staff is a matter with which I have some issue as far as the Government is concerned. Reductions of staff in country offices of the ABC affect the broadcasting capacity in those areas much more significantly than in city areas. Many ABC regional offices are operated by four or five people and a cutback of one or two staff within those offices can have disastrous effects. In conclusion, I place on record my concern about some of these matters which are affecting rural Australia, particularly remote Australia. I, for one, would be delighted if Australia Post could review its decision on the proposed increases in postal charges, particularly as they affect to those people who have no means of obtaining information, except from the newspapers through the mail. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) When can an answer be expected to Question No. 863 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 6 April 1978. 
What objective data such as survey results has been employed in assessing the demand for public broadcasting stations in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) What is the policy concerning the use of metric terminology in both radio and television broadcasting by the ABC. 
Has the Commission issued guidelines to its staff concerning the use of metric terminology. 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry say what effect the present troubled political climate in Iran is having on Australia's agricultural trade with that country, particularly on live .sheep shipments which have proved so valuable to producers? Are there trading opportunities for live sheep and sheep meats in Middle Eastern countries other than Iran that could be developed? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It refers to the satellite task force report. Does the Minister appreciate the contribution made by regional television stations to the quality of life in country Australia and to the economy of provincial centres? Is he aware of the concern expressed by regional television stations for their livelihood should certain options suggested in the report be adopted by the Government? Can he assure this Parliament that no single broadcasting interest or network will be allowed to control and dominate commercial television throughout Australia? 
Does the Minister for Transport recognise that Australia's road system is deteriorating rapidly to a point where many roads are beyond repair other than by complete renewal and reconstruction? Will this Government be able to restore road funding to the level recommended by the Australian Bureau of Roads report following the disastrous decline in road funding experienced during Labor's term in office? Does the Minister consider that the development and construction of national assets such as roads could be funded in part from loan funds raised in Australia or overseas? 
-I wish to pay tribute to Frank Stewart. The honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  pointed out that Frank Stewart had many friends. I am unlike them in that my friendship with Frank Stewart was virtually one of only a few months duration. Nevertheless my tribute is a personal rather than public one. I had contact with him on one or two occasions and, as a relatively new back bench member of this House, I found the advice and at times, consolation that he gave me to be most beneficial and rewarding. At times I spoke to him about some of the situations in which one found oneself, particularly in terms of the effect on family life of the commitment that is required of a Federal parliamentarian and the sacrifices that are made by one's wife, children and friends. I once said to him: ' How does one handle the situation when one comes back from Canberra and finds that one's eight-year-old daughter is saying goodbye instead of goodnight?' It was in those sorts of situations that Frank was able to give very good and sound advice, consolation and sympathy. I found him to be a man of extraordinary integrity. I am not of his faith; nevertheless I have very deep respect for him. He said to me at one stage that the most important thing in this game is to retain one's identity and integrity and that sooner or later every individual in this place will come up against a time of testing and that that person should not be found wanting as he has to live with his conscience. It is my honour to have known this man. 
-Tonight I would like to make some comments about the situation concering preschool funding in New South Wales. There is widespread concern amongst parents and teachers within preschools and also within the community, which in many cases has supported not only the building of preschools but also their operation. The issue is one that resides in New South Wales for some reason or other and not in other States, and I think that it is important to try to counter some of the irresponsible and evasive claims that have been made by various New South Wales Government spokesmen. Preschool funding in Australia commenced in 1973-74. Prior to that time preschool funding, as far as the Commonwealth was concerned, was a State responsibility. The Budget in 1973-74 provided a children's services program within which was preschool funding. Since that program started, payments from the Commonwealth for children's services have amounted to $2 16m Australia-wide and $87m in New South Wales, of which some $55m has been made available for preschools over that period. 
Other areas besides preschool funding that have been supported have been daycare schemes, before and after school care programs, vacation care schemes and family support programs. Those are areas which indicate the greatest need, often affecting single parents "and people who are forced to work- for example, low income families in which the mothers of young children are required to work because of economic circumstances. However, the Commonwealth and the States have agreed that preschool funding is a prime responsibility of the various States and that the Commonwealth's role is merely to supplement that level of funding. Therefore, the Commonwealth has reduced its contributions to preschools and all States, except New South Wales, have in turn increased their contributions to preschools. However, the Commonwealth has recognised the great need to provide assistance in those other areas I have just mentioned. In fact there have been very substantial increases in recent years in the day care, after school care, vocation and family support areas. 
For example in 1976-77 a total of $5.43m was allocated by the Commonwealth to New South Wales for those programs. The amount increased by 35 per cent to $7.3m in the next year and in 1978-79 increased further by nearly 50 per cent to $ 10.78m. We do not hear any members opposite or Ministers in the New South Wales Parliament referring to that fact; neither do they refer to the tremendous increase provided by the Commonwealth to the various States in terms of the tax-sharing formula. New South Wales alone received $73 8m from the 1974-75 Budget, and in the 1978-79 Budget received $ 1,458m which represented an increase of 98 per cent in five years - a very large increase. In the last three years the increases to the States have been 20 per cent, 16Vi per cent and 10 1/2 per cent respectively. This has been at a much greater rate than the amount the Commonwealth has gained from taxation revenue. In the same period taxation revenue increased by 69 per cent. All the States are better off than they have ever been. It is about time that some, New South Wales in particular, accepted their responsibilities under the new tax-sharing formula. 
It is ironic indeed that New South Wales has not seen fit to increase taxes or had to impose any new taxes or increase significantly any charges. Many States are reducing revenue measures such as estate duty. It is certainly interesting to compare the situation in New South Wales which is providing a measly $3.33m to pre-schools, which is only 21 per cent of the total allocation to preschools, with the situation in Victoria which is providing $20m this year which covers to 67.2 per cent of the total cost. Is it that the problem in Victoria is six times as great as it is in New South Wales or does Victoria have six times as many pre-school children? Of course not. The problem is that the New South Wales Government is not prepared to accept its responsibility as all other States have done. A measly $4.9m has been provided by the New South Wales Government for children's services. What is the amount in Victoria? It is not $4.9m but $33.5m. The figures speak for themselves. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Transport. Further to the question just put and the answer given concerning the price increase for Avgas, I ask: Does the Minister recognise that fuel costs for general aviation have risen by more than 70 per cent in six months and that such a precipitous rise may affect the very viability of aerial agricultural operators, outback mail and basic supply services and some charter and commuter operators? Does he also appreciate that this huge additional overhead will affect air ambulance, medical and other emergency services, and will increase operating costs for even a small twin-engined aircraft by some $12 to $15 an hour? Is it a fact that for many years the oil companies involved have kept the cost of Avgas down through crosssubsidisation and other internal measures? Will the Minister, in collaboration with his colleagues and the oil companies, endeavour to cushion the effects of the recent 47 per cent increase in fuel costs to Australia's general aviation industry by similar measures? 
-I find myself in a situation which is rather extraordinary in that in the last few seconds we have been treated to a display of some of the most vitriolic, abusive and totally unnecessary personality politics that I have heard for a long time. It is about time that an intelligent man such as the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)- 
Government members- Ha, ha! 
No, I grant him that. I believe that he certainly is an intelligent man, but I think it about time that he determined what role he might play in this place in his time here. We have seen the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  come into this House proposing a matter of public importance which really has no substance whatsoever. I was fascinated by some of his claims. I was fascinated by his sudden newfound concern for regional and provincial television stations with a view to what will possibly happen to them with the emergence of a national satellite transmitter. He exhorted us and came back to his normal pessimism, gloom and almost manic depression in trying to predict the imminent death knell of the provincial television stations and the private broadcasting sector. Let us see how fond the private broadcasting sector is of the party that the Leader of the Opposition represents. Just recently, referring to the period when the Australian Labor Party was in office, the federal director of the Federation of Australian Radio Broadcasters said: 
The outstanding characteristic of the system is the way it has been perverted for political ends. The only balance to be found is in the declining and debilitated commercial sector: all else is propaganda hostile to the philosophy of private enterprise. In a few more years, private commercial radio will be a spent force. 
The same gentleman said further: 
A great deal of the pressure for this expansion was generated in the early seventies. There were those in politics who had always been distrustful of the so-called 'established' media and it was from this feeling of distrust that the notion of public broadcasting was born. Public broadcasting was seen as an alternative, grass-roots system of radio which could combat and undermine the supposed influence of the suspect commercial sector. 
The Leader of the Opposition again referred to public broadcasting. Let us see some of the underlying reasons. Again I will quote the people whom the Leader of the Opposition is supposedly protecting in his comments about the satellite. The committee of inquiry on the ALP and the media in its report said: 
There are several ways in which the ALP can improve its communications performance . . . 
Certainly, an improvement was needed. Two of the ways suggested were to encourage diversity in the number of media outlets available and to establish additional media outlets sympathetic to the ALP. It was very obvious that one of the ways in which the ALP planned to do this was to set up a public broadcasting movement which had a strong and vital anti-conservative element and which offered much hope of providing the sympathetic media outlets that the party felt it needed. They are not my words; they are the words of the people who, presumably, the Leader of the Opposition is trying to befriend. 
It may be significant that this matter of publicimportance was brought on at this time. Next Saturday the ALP is conducting a national rural policy seminar in the city of Orange in my electorate. I think it is about time that it did so because it has said publicly that it is the oldest political party in Australia and has its roots in the bush and the strife of the shearers' strikes in the early 1880s and 1890s. It has taken the party 70 years and more to decide that it needed to have its first national rural policy symposium. One of the things that it will be discussing at the symposium is satellite broadcasting. It has invited a number of people who should know what they are talking about to participate in that seminar. The Leader of the Opposition has suggested that people in country areas should not be given the opportunity of having further diversity in broadcasting, and that the people in the far outback of Australia should not be given radio or television broadcasting- many of them have none of that at the moment- and should not have the educational programs and opportunities that will come with the provision of" a national satellite transmitter. 
Further comments were made in terms of this Government's failure to achieve the objectives that it set out to achieve. I refute those comments entirely. One of the main objectives that this Government set out to achieve was to depoliticise the whole area of broadcasting. In 1 977 we saw the full implementation of the amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act that provided for the issuing and renewal of licences to be removed from the purview of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to that of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. The Labor Party did not do that because it could not afford to remove that power from its Minister. Furthermore, the Broadcasting Tribunal has been established and is operating. 1 admit that there have been some difficulties with its evolving operation. Public scrutiny is an essential procedure in any democracy. No democracy can exist if there is no public accountability. Standards must be maintained and promises of performance must be made and adhered to, but we must also ensure that this process of public accountability is not one which government can employ in the guise of public scrutiny when, in fact, they are creating a type of censorship. Great amounts of money, invested capital, employment and shareholders ' interests are tied up with those people who hold commercial broadcasting licences. When they see developing a situation of numerous so-called interest groups within the community putting up submissions and claims that bear no relevance whatsoever to the particular hearing in process, they naturally look at their position with some concern and so seek legal counsel. 
One of the problems with the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal hearings in Adelaide, and more particularly in Sydney, is that they have become a battle of lawyers. This results in unnecessary expense and is not, I believe, in accord with the original intentions of those persons who framed the Act, or of those who constituted the Tribunal. Furthermore, they have become an enormous waste of time. In many cases the issues raised are quite irrelevant. However, there has obviously been gross misunderstanding on the part of the community at large. I think that needs to be sorted out as a matter of priority. Either the Act is inadequate or the interpretation of that Act by various persons has been inadequate or at least the guidelines for the submission of evidence to the Tribunal have not been relayed clearly to the public at large. That, I believe, is in the hands of the Minister and the Tribunal. The Minister has already indicated that discussions are under way to see whether the procedures and guidelines under which the Tribunal operates can be streamlined and whether we can achieve both purposes; that is, to provide meaningful participation and scrutiny in the licence renewal process- but those submissions must be relevant to the licence hearing in question- and to find an alternative regular opportunity for the Tribunal to invite submissions on particular areas, or indeed the whole general area, of broadcasting policy. 
I see that there needs to be two arms, one specifically relating to the licence hearing and the other to provide an opportunity for all members of the community who have had their submissions rejected. If they want to stand up and talk we should give them that opportunity, but not in the process of a specific licence renewal hearing. Why not follow the recommendations of the Green report and apply some of the same scrutiny requirements to the Australian Broadcasting Commission? The ABC, unlike the commercial broadcasters, utilises some $ 1 70m of taxpayers' money and by comparison its ratings are very poor indeed. Why not apply some of the rigid criteria and close public scrutiny to the ABC so that the taxpayers' interests and investment can be protected? 
I wonder how important this whole matter of public importance is to the Opposition. Halfway through the Leader of the Opposition's address only one Opposition front bencher, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and six other stalwarts were present. As soon as the next  speaker  rose to speak there was only one other Opposition member in the House with him. 
I am pleased to see that there are more members of the Opposition present to hear me than there were to hear the last  speaker.  I was interested to see that maybe the only member of the Opposition interested in this issue was  Senator Button,  who was in the gallery. I think this matter of public importance has been an absolute and total sham without any substance whatsoever. 
-The Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill 1979 is important to the maintenance of efficiency in and the economical operation of staff within the Australian Public Service. The Bill introduces two new concepts. First, it places an onus on management within the Public Service to seek to redeploy staff wherever possible as a primary obligation. It provides more satisfactory and extensive safeguards and appeal rights for such staff. In addition, the Bill introduces another new important new concept in the form of a new condition of employment, that is, the right to retire voluntarily on an appropriately reducing pension from the age of 55 onwards as opposed to the current retirement age requirement of 60 years of age. 
Furthermore, the Bill provides for identification and declaration by a permanent head or a prescribed statutory authority of staff eligible for redeployment, where their services cannot effectively be used within the Public Service or agency concerned for the following reasons: They are basically excess to the requirements of that particular department or authority; they are incapacitated in some way, perhaps physically or mentally incapable of performing their duties to the standard required; or for a number of prescribed reasons- I emphasise the word prescribed'- such as efficiency or loss of essential qualifications necessary for them to conduct their work. Furthermore, the Bill provides for retirements by the permanent head or prescribed statutory authority where the Public Service Board has certified that it is not possible for that person to be suitably redeployed. 
I point out that permanent heads and prescribed statutory authorities have a direct responsibility, not the Minister or the Government- for the efficiency and economic use of staff. That responsibility, of course, should be taken for granted in that the Commonwealth Public Service is one of the largest employers in Australia. It utilises the taxpayers funds. There is a responsibility accepted, and certainly required, of government to ensure that the taxpayers funds are used as efficiently and effectively as possible. This Bill will go a long way towards providing an upgrading of the Public Service and the efficiency and effectiveness of its operations. I did note that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  expressed concern that this Bill would remove from the public servant the security of tenure of his or her position or his or her insulation from pressures that the Government might bring to bear on his or her employment. 
I must ask: Under what conditions do most people in the work force enjoy such very stringent guarantees of safety within their jobs? What right really has the Commonwealth Public Service and its servants to be totally and absolutely secure in their jobs? What rights have they to be any more secure than, perhaps, people in private industry or the self-employed person, the small business man or the small farmer? Nobody looks after them when the conditions of their employment, or the condition of the economy or of the industry that they are in requires them to be retrenched or to go out of business. It is not only a matter of security of tenure. Let us look at the wages, the salaries, the conditions and the perks that are available. The Public Service has been a pacesetter in wages and conditions, and still is to a large degree. In what area of private industry do we find comparable conditions available in regard to holiday loadings, overtime, long service leave, sick leave, maternity leave- even paternity leave when it was in operationsuperannuation, working hours and flexitime? How many people employed in private industry do we find, in the terminology of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  have 'flexed off' at various hours of the day? 
Another provision of this Bill provides for voluntary retirement. One of the difficulties that the Opposition must have is to reflect the views of the rank and file membership of the Public Service unions. In my dealings with those people, they have welcomed in no small measure the provisions contained in the Bill for voluntary early retirement. Of course, this provides for such retirement to occur from 55 years of age onwards. From my experience as a public servant prior to coming into this place and from my conversations and relations with other people still in the Public Service, I know that there are many people in the Public Service, both State and Commonwealth, who are simply eking out their days, waiting to retire. Often they had been laterally promoted into positions of relative insignificance. They would be delighted to have the opportunity to retire prematurely. Many would do so. 
Once the provisions of this Bill become enacted it will be found that a very large number of people within the Public Service will take that option of voluntary early retirement, for obvious reasons. They may wish simply to retire in the conventional sense of the word, to undertake their sports, hobbies, crafts or leisure time activities. Many will wish to take up opportunities for travel which possibly have been denied them throughout their working lives. This will become the case particularly as the cost of travel and the cost of air fares is reduced. Not an insignificant proportion may wish to run their own businesses. There are many people in that category whom I know of personally. 
Furthermore, the Bill provides for so-called management initiated redeployment and management initiated retirement. This will apply to those members of the Public Service who are over the age of 60 or who are in excess of the requirements of the department or agency and cannot be redeployed suitably elsewhere. Let us not forget that that rider is a primary concern- a priority. Those employees who are inefficient or incapable for various reasons and those who are incapacitated or who have no means by which they can continue to hold their positions- such as the loss of a necessary qualification which I have mentioned before- and who are over the age of 55 years will not only gain the normal superannuation benefits on a pro rata sliding scale but also they will receive a special benefit amounting to two months' salary for each year of service forgone between the age of 55 years or the age at which they were retired up to 60 years of age. 
One feature that has been noticeably lacking in this debate is in regard to the opportunities that voluntary early retirement may create for increased job opportunities within the Commonwealth Public Service and, in particular, increased job opportunities for younger people. One of the difficulties in times of economic restraint is that not only Public Service organisations but also many other organisations, including academic institutions, tend to become top heavy with senior people. For example, one may well find in a university that there is a plethora of senior people- professors, readers, associate professors and senior lecturers, and very few opportunities for younger people further down the scale. Similar situations arise in the Public Service. There is one great advantage that I see which apparently the Australian Labor Party does not see or is not prepared to admit. At least, the three speakers who have spoken so fair in the debate are not prepared to admit that there are very real opportunities for additional employment for younger people. The Adelaide  Advertiser  of 27 November last year emphasised this point as follows: 
So far as voluntary early retirement is concerned, there is the prospect, if enough avail themselves of the opportunity, of substantially increased job opportunities for young people. 
Surely that is a most important and desirable aim. It is one on which the Opposition has not cared to comment and has not cared to recognise. 
Furthermore, the Opposition has not cared to recognise that similar types of moves investigating the efficiency and effectiveness of the Public Service organisations and similar moves and reports looking at various measures to shake up the Public Service in the States have been undertaken by Labor governments. The most obvious is the recent New South Wales Public Service Inquiry. Much of the rhetoric expressed by members of the Opposition on this issue is not supported by some of their State colleagues or by the rank and file of many of the unions and organisations concerned. It is certainly not supported by many of the young people who would like the opportunity to have a career job within the Public Service. 
In my opinion, public servants who are prepared to abide by the responsibilities of their positions and to enjoy a career in the Public Service need fear nothing from the provisions of this legislation. In fact, they should be advantaged by it in that the organisation for which they work should become more efficient and more meaningful. Let us hope that we do not see the situation arise which so commonly prevails throughout the Public Service at the moment where people are virtually biding their time, often complaining about how little they have to do. That is a very common complaint within the Public Service. 
In closing, I express a little concern about a matter which I would like the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  to take on board and perhaps clarify. The situation in which management initiated retirement occurs for those persons under the age of 55 years seems to be open to some debate and conjecture. Obviously, these persons require no special benefits. Whilst it may be well acceded that this is not the intention of the legislation, nevertheless this legislation will be on the books for future governments to consider. I sympathise with some of the younger public servants who may be concerned that management initiated retirement for themthose under the age of 55 years- could lead them to be placed in a position of vulnerability so far as their careers in the Public Service are concerned. 
The second point that needs some clarification is that there may be situations occurring in which excess capacity rapidly develops within a section of the Public Service as a result of changing economic circumstances or changing government policy. As an example, I cite the radical changes to Medibank. Many public servants were placed in a situation in which they were apparently redundant to the requirements of the Department of 
Health or the other departments in which redeployment was attempted. In those cases very generous special benefits were provided. I would like to be reassured that where substantial or gross changes occur as a result of policy, these provisions will not be the sole binding provisions and that additional compensation or special benefits might be appropriate in those circumstances. 
With the proviso of those two concerns I and my constituents hold, I support the thrust of this Bill. I believe that it is a milestone in terms of obtaining greater effectiveness and efficiency within the Public Service. It is a milestone for the Commonwealth to lead, following many other countries, in what is a most innovative and effective policy of allowing public servants the opportunity to retire voluntarily at an earlier age and so more effectively use their leisure and retirement time. Most importantly, the legislation will provide additional job opportunities for younger people within the Service. I support the Bill. 
-Recently the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  launched a publication by the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union entitled  Australia Ripped Off.  When one looks at the system of welfare payments in this country one might well ask whether that publication should not have been entitled 'Australian Taxpayers Ripped Off. Commonwealth expenditure for health, welfare and education has risen from 25 per cent 10 years ago to nearly 50 per cent at present. When the expenditure on defence, payments to the States and public debt interest are added to this, there remains a measly 15c in every dollar of expenditure available for all the other funding responsibilities of the Commonwealth Government. If the expenditure on health, welfare and education has doubled in the last 10 years, how much further can it go? Should it go up to 60 per cent, 70 per cent or 80 per cent of total Commonwealth outlays, or should it be pulled up now? 
In raising this matter of public importance I call on the Government to take further measures to ensure that those most deserving in the community receive most of the welfare dollar and, conversely, those least deserving or not deserving receive less or nothing from the welfare dollar. Inherent in this proposition is that the proportion of Commonwealth expenditures attributable to welfare must be contained and that a more equitable reallocation within the welfare appropriation be made. Let me remind the House that 10 years ago every 10 workers supported 1% welfare recipients. Now the same 10 workers support 2% welfare recipients. Further, the average income earner in Australia is contributing nearly $2,000 a year to welfare services- $35 a week from the average income earner's taxes. It seems that the Australian disease is one where more and more people rely on fewer and fewer to support them. 
No doubt Opposition members- the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  in particular- will bellow with self-righteous indignation on behalf of the unemployed, the sick, the pensioners and the handicapped. I am not castigating these people. I am, however, calling on the Government to examine its regulations and guidelines to ensure that the taxpayers' dollar is responsibly appropriated to those in greatest need. Does the Opposition agree with the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  who will follow me in this debate, when he stated publicly at Penrith that he could see no reason why 'a bloke who wants to be a surfie and who doesn't particularly want to get a job' should not be sought out and challenged? 
Does the Opposition agree that the taxpayer should continue to fund groups in the community enjoying alternative lifestyles in their communes who obviously have no intention whatsoever of working and who in fact boast openly that those who work are fools? Does the Opposition believe that the work test guidelines should be tightened up or relaxed? Let us look at its track record when in Government. I would like to draw the attention of the House to the explosion of unemployment benefit recipients and payments that occurred in 1974-75, during Labor's period of office.  Mr Acting Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard two tables showing the rates of unemployment benefits payable and the number of unemployment recipients from 1946 to 1978 inclusive. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197905314_29_0.jpg"></graphic>

NUMBER OF UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFICIARIES AT 30 JUNE 
1946-13,989; 1947-16,147; 1948-12,727; 1949-18,210; 1950-19,411; 1951-8,569; 1952-15,586; 1953-36,034; 1954-15,737; 1955-12,629; 1956-16,194; 1957-26,887; 1958-39,568; 1959-27,528; 1960-16,541; 1961-54,254; 1962-46,324; 1963-38,188; 1964-18,129; 1965-12,656; 1966-19,482; 1967-24,002; 1968-21,275; 1969-15,910; 1970-13,043; 1971-19,411; 1972-41,581; 
1973-37,945; 1974-32,009; 1975-160,748; 1976-188,423; 1977-250,309; 1978-286,091 
Until 1973, the number of unemployment benefit recipients fluctuated between some 10,000 and some 50,000 persons. In 1974, 32,000 persons were receiving unemployment benefits, but by June 1975 there were nearly 16 1 , 000 people in the same category. This is an increase of some 400 per cent in one financial year. What a dreadful indictment of the Labor Government. To what was it due? The wages hike, contracting job vacancies, or a change in the system of unemployment benefit administration? Historically, some 40 per cent of registered unemployed persons receive unemployment benefits. However, that 40 per cent jumped to 70 per cent in 1975 when the regulations and guidelines for determining eligibility for unemployment benefits were relaxed by the present Leader of the Opposition, who was the responsible Minister at the time. It was he who allowed the huge rise in unemployment benefit recipients and the associated huge rise in benefit payouts. It was he who allowed the work test to be so watered down that unemployed persons could refuse job offers simply because they did not like the particular type of work. It was he who introduced the concept of personal preference being expressed by unemployed persons as to whether or not they wished to take a job opportunity. 
It was during his term of office that we saw the quite ludicrous situation develop where people could continue to receive unemployment benefits because their job preferences were quite unrealistic and quite impossible to fill in their particular districts or localities. He allowed people who voluntarily left their jobs to register immediately for unemployment benefits through abolishing the postponement provisions. He introduced advance payments for beneficiaries, leading to a massive over-expenditure of taxpayers funds. He allowed school leavers to be paid benefits for the summer holidays, even when those school leavers had arranged to start in a job after the holidays finished. 
I believe that there are two issues of major concern to Australians, irrespective of their party political affiliations. They are, firstly, the whole area of welfare abuse and, secondly, the incidence of political strikes and disputes instigated by a small militant minority. 
The evidence is in every country town, every city, every suburb. If the honourable member talks to his colleagues in the clubs and the pubs, he will find that almost every person, irrespective of whether he is a supporter of this side of the House or of the honourable member's side of the House, is concerned about his tax dollar being misappropriated. He is also concerned that those in the greatest need are not getting a greater share of that tax dollar. I thought that that was an argument and a concern that might have been shared by members of the Opposition. 
Opposition members may howl, but they should know that these matters are of great concern to their own people. The average Australian fumes with justifiable anger when he sees his tax dollars supporting individuals who are shirking the system. People in every city, suburb and town know those individuals. Why should the taxpayer continue to support dishonesty whereby people falsify names and collect more than one benefit cheque? 
The honourable member for Melbourne asks why we do not find them jobs. Why does not the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  show some real concern? In the last spring session of Parliament he found time to ask only six questions on unemployment out of 140 questions asked. That is a measly four per cent. Recently, at the rural seminar in Orange, he found time to refer to rural unemployment for only 3 per cent of his speech. He found time in only a measly 50 seconds of his speech to refer to rural unemployment. Why should other more needy people in the community be penalised when single parents are living in de facto relationships, often both being supported by the welfare dollar? How does the family man earning $212 a week and paying $40 a week in tax react when he sees moving in next door four single people who, by pooling their welfare payments, live as well as he does and who do not pay any tax at all? Why should not welfare abusers be tracked down with the same diligence as tax evaders? 
The welfare dollar must be more effectively and efficiently administered. Unnecessary duplication between Commonwealth, State and local government instrumentalities must be sought out and corrected. The findings ofthe Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, which indicate that the welfare system is out of hand and largely unaccounted for, must be considered very seriously indeed by this Government. I believe that the community at large is prepared to accept expenditure cuts across the board. It is also looking for equity in the welfare system. I believe that we must look seriously at the whole area of welfare to ensure that the taxpayer's dollar is more efficiently and effectively and equitably used. At the same time, we must acknowledge that there are some serious gaps in the delivery of welfare services. There are also some serious inequities within the system. I am the first to admit that young people are experiencing great difficulty in finding full time employment. Under those conditions, it is extremely difficult to apply the work test in the same fashion as it was conceived originally. Naturally, those people looking for work may well find only part time or casual employment. Yet the present regulations actively discourage those people by limiting the amount they can earn to $6 a week, or $3 a week for juniors. On the one hand, the system appears to be exhorting young people to go and find work; on the other hand, it appears to be penalising them for not doing so. In many cases, it is encouraging dishonesty. 
There are many other examples where welfare payments, particularly allowances, have not been indexed to account for inflation and remain at the same figure as many years ago. In my own electorate I have seen recently an example where, for the sake of a $5,000 grant to enable an organisation to provide assistance for homeless men, unfortunately the wheels of bureaucracy have turned so slowly that that grant appears not to be forthcoming because of some rather arbitrary requirements and regulations as to the standard of the accommodation required. At the same time, from my own experience I know of many other instances where welfare dollars are being grossly wasted. I would like to take some people along with me to see those homeless men, to see the conditions under which they are living. They would be surprised and, I hope, horrified. Yet in this particular case, it would seem to me that the system has done all in its power to prevent a very small sum of money from being allocated to that project, whilst at the same time actively condoning what would appear to be wastage within the system. Likewise, I wonder what are the prospects in so many areas of aged persons being provided with accommodation. 
In country areas we have a number of small fully established hospitals, yet they may have a bed occupancy rate of only 20 per cent or 30 per cent a year. With the reallocation of resources and a better understanding between the States and the Commonwealth many of those hospitals could easily be transferred and converted to very effective aged persons accommodation. There are buildings in existence, such as nurses homes that are no longer required and convent schools that may have been replaced. There are many existing facilities which could be converted to provide aged persons accommodation not of the Rolls Royce type but better than that which they have at the moment. Whilst I believe that some standards must be maintained, the situation becomes quite ridiculous when a project which could house 30 or 40 aged persons in relative comfort cannot be approved for occupation because the corridors are two inches too narrow, because the rooms do not have individual bathrooms or because of some other matter which does not quite conform to the standards and which means that the whole project has to be wasted. 
I am not calling for a reduction in the level of the unemployment benefit. Furthermore, I am not calling for a limit to the age at which a person can receive the unemployment benefit. I am, however, calling on the Government to ensure that welfare payments are equitable and fair, that those in greatest need receive the greatest benefit. I suggest that, if substantial savings are made within the welfare appropriations as a result of these and other suggestions, we should seriously consider redistributing those savings to welfare recipients in greater need rather than sending them back to the Consolidated Revenue Fund in the Treasury Department. I am not castigating those people who receive welfare benefits. I am calling for some changes to the system to allow those who are in greatest need to receive the greatest benefit. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Has his attention been drawn to an article published in the  Sunday  newspaper in Sydney quoting  Mr Eric  Risstrom as saying that the Government intends to take advantage of the families of dead people'? Is he aware that  Mr Risstrom  implies that any inheritance from a deceased estate will be taxed at a rate of 47.5c in the dollar. Is  Mr Risstrom  correct in advising families that they should make sure that estates are kept in trust and not distributed if this level of tax is to be avoided? Finally, can the Treasurer confirm whether any of these claims made by  Mr Risstrom  have any validity at all? 
Unfortunately tonight we have seen the debate on the Appropriation Bill used by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  to take the opportunity to cast aspersions, to slander, to make scurrilous remarks and implications about an honourable member of this House. I ask the honourable member whether he has documents in his possession. Does he have a copy of the report or a list of charges made that he is referring to? 
I am simply reminding the honourable member for Fremantle that there will be an opportunity to debate the matters that he has raised when we have full access to the documents so that we and the Opposition will be in full knowledge of the matters. 
I shall return to the subject of this debate, which is the Budget. I would like to refer to the amendments moved to Appropriation Bill (No. 1), namely, that this Budget reduces the real living standard of Australian families, that it will increase unemployment to the highest level in the nation's history, that it facilitates and stimulates the recent fresh outbreak of inflation, that it ensures that economic growth will be well below the nation's productive capacity, that it fails to introduce an effective job creation program and so on. I find those remarks and those amendments most interesting because the response to this Budget has been one of overwhelming acceptance by the Australian community. It might be interesting to Opposition members present that the critical response to this Budget in my electorate has consisted of two telephone calls and two letters. On the contrary, there has been an overwhelming response in a positive fashion to the benefits that this Budget has brought in, largely to the containment of inflation under difficult circumstances. 
Most people realise that inflation is the greatest problem that faces this nation. They well remember the levels of inflation that they experienced in past years. I would remind honourable members present that when this Government took office inflation was of the order of 14 per cent. This Government has been able to contain that level of inflation to a figure below 9 per cent even in the difficult circumstances. This level, of course, is below the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development average, which allows us to take part in the world community in exports and trade with a very definite advantage. The response to the measures taken in the welfare area has been overwhelmingly good. Pensioners remember only too well what inflation meant to them when they saw their pensions being gradually eroded by higher and higher inflation, and they welcomed enormously the increased limits for the receipt of pensioner health benefit cards. In previous circumstances they would suddenly become ineligible, through a small addition to their income for those cards and face additional hundreds of dollars in hospital and medical fees. Likewise in the veterans' area very real benefits are extended to those who have served our nation well in past years, either our own servicemen and women or those that served with us. Tourist operators, motel ownersagain in my area- exporters and local government all recognise the tremendous benefits from this Budget, including a 24 per cent increase in untied grants to local government. 
For the first time in many years of Australian history a government has very purposefully gone out to minimise tax avoidance. I remind this House that the previous Labor Government has had an absolute zilch record of taking tax avoidance measures and introducing legislation to counter tax avoidance. Suddenly it has become a matter of great concern to the Opposition. Suddenly there are many people recognising the degree of tax avoidance in the community, but that is only as a result of this Government 's taking the measures and biting the bullet to try to do something genuine about tax avoidance. Can the Labor Government name one measure that it brought in in its term of office to try to reduce tax avoidance? Another measure that I believe has been very widely and well received by PA YE taxpayers is the increase in the limit from $400 to $1,000 before provisional tax becomes assessed. That has been very well received by people who are in receipt of wages, who may have some investments or some property and who can now get that advantage of another $600 increase in limit before they become eligible for provisional tax. 
I turn now to industrial relations. In the last few months we have seen a most interesting move. There have been many examples of a rank and file revolt against the dictates of the more militant sectors of the union movement. In my area there have been many examples of demands from the shop floor for rank and file members to determine their course of action in the event of disputes, go-slows and strikes. 
At the Email Ltd plant in Orange, for example. Does the honourable member know what happened at the Conkey and Sons Ltd abattoir at Cootamundra? He does not. Does he know what happened at the Blaney abattoir where members of the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union stood up against their shop stewards and representatives from Sydney and said: 'We want to work. We want to continue with our jobs. We understand the difficulties that our employers are going through and we do not wish to be told, by people who are paid to come here, that we should go out on strike and not be paid'. 
There are tremendous benefits in this Budget in the area of support for the various States. I find it interesting to see in today's Press that members of the Wran Government have been hailed as financial wizards because they have been able to bring in their fourth Budget with no significant increases in charges or taxes. I wonder where the additional revenue is coming from- the sort of revenue that allows them to provide an extra $50m for welfare housing, a 24 per cent increase in funds for youth and community services, a 34 per cent increase in other welfare areas and a 55 per cent increase for pre-schools. There are to be increases in the education area. The New South Wales Government will be employing another 450 teachers in secondary schools and 300 in technical colleges. It is providing 20 per cent more funds for corrective services and 20 per cent more funds for hospitals, despite the screams and howls of complaint about so-called Federal Government cutbacks. Yet only a few commentators have drawn attention to the fact that the Commonwealth's tax sharing formula has been largely responsible for providing the additional revenue that the New South Wales Government now has at its disposal. The  Sydney Morning Herald  editorial of today pointed out that New South Wales Government revenue has been increased by $407m. Of that, $203m has been accounted for by the Commonwealth's tax reimbursement formula. The editorial states: 
As a result, total Federal funds (including borrowing authorities) available to NSW this financial year will be about $300m more than in 1978-79. That is a rise of nearly 7.S per cent. So, allowing for inflation, the real cut in federal support for NSW is only of the order of 1 .5 per cent- which, incidentally, is about the same as the real increases expected in the NSW Government's revenue from stamp duties, payroll tax and mining royalties plus savings from reduced public transport losses. 
So  Mr Fraser  has been more 'generous' to the States than the Wran Government gives him credit for. 
A similar situation exists throughout Australia. State governments have not had to increase their charges or their taxes. This is largely as a result of the tax sharing formula that the Commonwealth Government has extended. Look at the figures for New South Wales where there was an inflation rate of 8.2 per cent for the financial year 1978-79. Yet, there has been a 14 per cent increase in untied grants to the New South Wales Government for it to spend in any area it wishes.  Mr Wran's  claims are most interesting. He is claiming considerable credit for keeping the jobless figures down in New South Wales. On his own figures  Mr Wran  admits that there are 30,000 more jobs in New South Wales. 
What happened in South Australia?  Mr Wran  claimed the credit for those jobs. He said that this was due to the action of the New South Wales Government and that it was responsible for holding down the unemployment level.  Mr Wran  made this announcement after the Bureau of Statistics showed that the New South Wales jobless figures had dropped by 11.1 per cent, more than twice the national average. Yet only in April 1976 New South Wales genuinely had the highest unemployment rate in this country. More than 6 per cent of the work force in New South Wales was unemployed at that time compared with the Victorian figure of 4 per cent or the national unemployment rate of 5.2 per cent. At that time  Mr Wran  disclaimed any possibility of his being able to do anything about unemployment. He said: 
As a State government we do not possess the economic powers which determine the level of business activity, of unemployment or inflation. All the weapons of economic management lie in the hands of the Federal Government. 
As the article from which I quoted points out so rightly, it depends on when you talk to  Mr Wran  as to whether he takes the credit for the unemployment and inflation situation or blames the 
Federal Government. He cannot have it both ways. 
Other matters in the Budget that I would like to mention relate to rural policy. The Opposition has claimed that cutbacks in rural policy have been severe and disastrous. I have not had one complaint from the rural sector about these items. Let us look at what the Leader of the Opposition was proposing in a rural policy speech and platform- the same one, I might add, that he has used in four or five different places in recent weeks. He spent very little time on any of the areas of positive rural policy that the Opposition would be prepared to bring in. He spent a considerable time talking about rural poverty, education in rural areas, decentralisation, and the quality of country school buildings, but very little time talking about a direct agricultural policy. He did mention four matters but offered no explanation whatsoever. The first was a regional income insurance plan. I wonder whether any members on the Opposition benches can explain to me what a regional income insurance plan is? Secondly, the Leader of the Opposition talked about annuities for low income farmers, which I presume are welfare handouts for low income farmers. Thirdly, he talked about provision for household support on the farm in cases of temporary financial hardship- another handout approach which the rural community is not interested in. Finally he mentioned the provision of more flexible repayment terms for rural loans. I would indeed welcome that policy but I would also welcome some detailed explanations as to how these policies would be implemented. 
What is in the speech in terms of marketing policy? What is there in terms of export policy or fuel policy? It was the Opposition spokesman for primary industry in another chamber who not so long ago said that farmers, even at time of harvest and sowing, should not be entitled to a priority when diesel fuel supplies are scarce. I find that very hard to reconcile with his support in overcoming many of the things that he finds so difficult, things which he desires to change within the rural scene. No mention is made in the rural policy speeches or statements of the Leader of the Opposition concerning any financial measures that he might introduce to make rural incomes more stable, to expand markets or to develop further our trading opportunities with other countries. It is a welfare type approach to rural policy. 
Education is one area which has received a lot of comment and criticism as a result of this Government's policies. I remind people in the Australian community that there has been a very significant increase in the funds being made available to schools throughout Australia. For example, schools throughout Australia are generally comparable in standard with any of those in Western world countries. In the last three years there has been a massive improvement in pupil-teacher ratios in Australian government schools. During the same three years school population figures have dropped by 3 per cent. The number of teachers employed has increased by 12 per cent. In that time funds have increased by 1 7 per cent, even accounting for inflation. 
Is the honourable member saying that we should continue to pour more and more money into education in the face of declining enrolments? Is he saying that taxpayers should be spending more than the $1,000 a year per head which they are now spending on education? The major issue is not whether they should pay more but whether they are getting value for the money they are spending at the moment. Many people are questioning the proposition being pushed so widely that the expenditure of more and more money is the only answer to quality in education. Commonwealth expenditure on schools has increased enormously in recent years. In 1972-73, $96m was allocated to schools. By 1978-79 that sum had risen to $743 m, an increase of nearly eight-fold. Yet Australia's population growth is slowing down rapidly and fewer and fewer children will come into our schools. Government school numbers are starting to decline, perhaps for the first time in Australia 's history. On the other hand, enrolments in non-government schools are more stable and in many cases are actually increasing. Most non-government schools are still well behind their government counterparts in resource targets. We should remember that 79 per cent of students attending government schools receive 88 per cent of all public funding whereas 2 1 per cent of students in non-government schools receive 12 per cent. I believe that it is high time that we recognised that there are major differences between States. The States readily blame all education problems on the Federal Government. Yet it is interesting to note that there are wide disparities between the States in their contributions to education. For example, why is it that capital expenditure in Victorian schools is $ 1 50 a head when the equivalent figure for New South Wales is 15 per cent less or $127 a head? The same principle applies to other areas, such as pre-schools. If there are disabilities and disadvantages within schools in certain areas they are not the result of federal cutbacks. They are the result of a declining commitment by State governments to meet their constitutional responsibilities to provide secondary education for the children in their States. 
I wish now to express some concern about another area of the Budget. An amount of $62.5m has been allocated under the two Acts responsible for the provision of aged persons homes and aged persons hostels. That $62. 5m will be used entirely for the completion of existing approved projects. It is certainly an increase from the previous year's allocation of $52. 7m, but only $10m has been made available for new projects in the next financial year, 1980-81. That I believe, is a serious situation. Many communities have made great efforts to raise funds in order to build aged persons accommodation for people within their areas. Some relief may be provided by rationalisation through hospitals so that long stay patients are treated as they would be in nursing homes. Some relief may be provided by the encouragement of private nursing homes. I believe that a broader view should be taken of the expansion of home care services. Tax incentives could be provided to encourage families to retain their aged relatives within their own homes. Other concepts, such as granny flats and temporary accommodation that have been examined in other countries could be examined in Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
Further to his answer to Question No. 4057  (Hansard,  30 August 1979, page 890) what was the (a) quarterly rate of inflation during (i) 1970 and (ii) 1971 and (b) annual rate of inflation during (i) 1969-70, (ii) 1970-71 and (iii) 1971-72. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware that unemployment in New South Wales has dropped to the lowest level for more than two years? Is this decline in the number of unemployed in New South Wales a result of this Federal Government's economic policies? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
1 ) What is the average term of office of (a) Members and ( b) Senators since (i) federation, (ii) 1 930 and (iii) 1 950. 
What proportion of (a) Members and (b) Senators attained at least 20 years service (including broken periods of service since (i) federation, (ii) 1 930 and (iii) 1 950. 
Is he able to say which democracies in the world impose a fixed term of office for Parliamentary representatives and what the terms and conditions are in each instance. 
Can the Minister for Transport advise of any further developments in the relaxation of parallel scheduling by Australia's domestic airlines? Can he also advise whether such a policy has any beneficial effect on the airlines servicing the main regional centres of Australia? 
I wish to take just five minutes to raise three matters which relate to the administration of road funds between the Commonwealth and the States. There are three difficulties which I believe need to be rectified because the end user, the road user, is suffering as a result of these complications and difficulties between the Commonwealth and the States and, in particular, the State of New South Wales. The first difficulty is where there has been some substitution regarding categories of roads. To some extent that aspect has been rectified but over past years there has been a tendency by various State Ministers for Transport to try to siphon off funds that have been allocated to a particular category and to use them in a separate category. There have been instances in some States where funds allocated by the Commonwealth to rural arterial road categories have even been used for purposes such as outer suburban freeways. 
The second area of difficulty concerns delays in providing information. There have been extraordinary delays by New South Wales State Ministers in providing the information that the Commonwealth requires as to which projects are to be funded under the State's priority program. For example, in the 1978-79 year, the Commonwealth Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  sought this information from the New South Wales Minister for Transport by 1 April 1978. He did not receive the information on rural arterial roads until 3 1 October 1978- some seven months late. He did not receive the information on rural local roads until 9 October- virtually the same period of delay. This of course imposes great difficulties not only on road construction authorities in the State but also on local councils which wish to know what their allocations will be so that they can forward budget and draw up their engineering programs for particular projects. While that delay in 1978 may have been associated with elections in New South Wales, even worse, it would now seem that the same situation is applying this year. As of eight days ago, the Commonwealth Minister for Transport still had not received advice from New South Wales as to its roads program, either for rural local or rural arterial roads, for the 1 979-80 year. It would seem that once again both the road building instrumentality in New South Walesthe Department of Main Roads- and the local councils concerned still do not know what their share of the cake will be. 
The third area of difficulty is the capacity with which various States, although they have been appropriated funds for specific road projects, apparently can change their mind. There is one project in my electorate which relates to a trunk road between Bathurst and Sofala where the State sought approval for a total program amounting to $3m for the upgrading of a particularly notoriously bad and dangerous section of steep incline on trunk road 54. But, as it turned out, the State, having been given approval in the year just past for an initial expenditure of $24,000 out of that total of $3m, changed its mind, and no funds at all were expended from that program on that section of hill. The Commonwealth Minister advises me that he does not have the ultimate authority to require the States to abide by the bids and priorities which they submit. This places the Commonwealth in an extremely difficult situation. It has to take in good faith the priorities sent to it by any State government. When it approves of those priorities it often finds that the State government, perhaps in association with its road building instrumentality, changes the program. The people who are looking forward to having a particular section road realigned or at least upgraded so that it will be considerably better than it has been for many years are extremely disappointed. I believe that there should be some renegotiation of the arrangements with the States so that this situation does not occur. 
Finally, there are two areas that need to be looked at in relation to the negotiation of the new roads agreement to apply from next year. One is the tremendous and urgent need for the restoration and upgrading of existing roads which have fallen a long way behind the necessary requirements. That has happened over a number of years. We should look seriously at the proposition whereby road funds are acquired solely from annual revenue. Surely we should look at the possibilities of using loan funds so that the capital costs of major road projects can be spread over succeeding generations who will be using those roads. I do not believe that we have examined closely enough in this country the concept of using tolls as a means of financing major new road developments. Tremendous advances in technology, particularly tunnelling, have been made. An area which is close to my heart is a new crossing of the Blue Mountains. I believe that it would be feasible to examine seriously the possibility of a new road on that route, using tunnelling technology and financing part of the capital cost out of toll revenue. 
-I support the Remuneration Tribunals Amendment Bill (No. 3) which, as the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  said, is of a minor technical nature. The legislation provides in Part II for greater flexibility in the work of the Academic Salaries Tribunal. The Tribunal will have flexibility in three areas so as to allow it to investigate and to report independently on a number of matters without having to undertake a general review as it has had to do under the provisions of the existing legislation. The Tribunal may, without having a general review make determinations or reports on academic salaries for, firstly, newly established Commonwealth tertiary institutions, secondly, for new categories of academic staff and, thirdly, particular categories of staff in all States and Territories for either universities, colleges of advanced education or both. 
One aspect of the Remuneration Tribunals Act which needed attention related to the confusion whether there was power in the Act to recommend salary levels for institutions other than colleges of advanced education and universities, that is, those created by the Tertiary Education Commission which encompasses all three levels of post-secondary education. The amendment makes the distinction and clearly establishes the fact that the Tribunal has responsibility for the top two levels of the post-secondary education sector but not for the technical and further education area. 
One point raised by the honourable member for Fremantle with which I find myself in agreement is the difficulty involving part-time staff at academic institutions. One of the insidious diseases that has been afflicting a number of our tertiary institutions in recent times is the development of top heaviness of the staff structure. The opportunities for juniors to gain employment and become full-time members of the staffing establishment at universities or colleges have become more and more limited. Consequently, there is a certain amount of aging and perhaps even self-perpetuating inertia in the higher levels of university and college departments. This is largely as a result of the inability of institutions to take on replacement staff from junior levels. I agree with the honourable member that there is a need for the Tribunal to look at the position of part-time staff members. However, there is one area in regard to which I do not agree that the honourable member's remarks were relevant. I do not imagine that the Tribunal has responsibility for resolving salary levels for recipients of Commonwealth post-graduate awards. Perhaps that is a matter that could be looked at by the Tribunal but personally I do not believe that it necessarily comes within the purview of the Tribunal under the present legislation. 
Finally, I would like to make some comments- I shall seek leave to incorporate some documents in this regard later- on the comparative salary levels applying for academic staff in Australia as opposed to certain other occupations. There has been some considerable debate over a period that academic salaries have fallen behind those of other sectors and shortly I will seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  some comparative documents which I believe refute that claim. The documents relate to the June quarter 1974 and the June quarter 1979. That period was chosen because that was the period over which previous data was requested by the Members Conditions Committee of the Government in relation to parliamentary salaries. The comparison for that period is made between academic salaries, including the salaries of high school principals in New South Wales, and average weekly earnings, the consumer price index, weighted average minimum weekly rates of pay for both male and female- Federal and Stateand for Commonwealth Public Service salaries and basic salaries for Commonwealth senators and members. 
It may be of interest to honourable members that during this period, the consumer price index, that is, the weighted average for the six capital cities, increased by some 75 per cent. Likewise, average weekly earnings, on a seasonally adjusted basis, increased by 83 per cent. Weighted average minimum weekly rates of pay for male and female, both Federal and State, were of a similar order- some 80 per cent to an 83 per cent increase. On the other hand, Commonwealth Public Service salaries increased in that time by about 48 per cent to a maximum of 54 per cent, depending on the division and the level. Interestingly, the basic salaries of members and senators increased by only 34 per cent in that period whereas academic salaries overall increased by some 73 per cent to 87 per cent, the largest increase, of course, being in the tutor range where a considerable catch-up provision applied. In general, the average increase in academic salaries for professors down through to senior lecturers and lecturers, was some 73 per cent to 80 per cent. Incidentally, the salaries of high school principals, at least in New South Wales, increased over that period by some 69 per cent. So those figures certainly lay to rest any significant claims that academic salaries have fallen well behind the relativities of other standards within the community.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to have these tables incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910162_27_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="116131197910162_27_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="116131197910162_27_4.jpg"></graphic>

-I do not wish to take up the time of the House any further, but I make the point that the proposed legislation before the House is of a relatively minor machinery nature. 
I believe that it will make for much greater working flexibility with the Academic Salaries Tribunal as it is affected by Part II of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973. 

<graphic href="116131197910162_28_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-The opposition is in somewhat of a dilemma on this issue. Whilst it says that in principal it does not oppose the introduction of a national satellite system, nevertheless it spends most of its time- this is true of both the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  and the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones);  in fact, in the case of the honourable member for Melbourne, I believe some 90 per cent of the time available to him- in criticising the statement of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  The honourable member for Melbourne criticised the whole proposal and the manner in which the task force was originally established. He cast aspersions on the associations that various members of that task force had. He cast aspersions on the task force by asking whether it was competent and unbiased in its views. He also criticised the technical jargon that the task force used in its report. He referred to the monopoly of media services by a handful of proprietors and said that the situation would indeed become exacerbated by the use of a satellite. I will quote some of the phrases used. The honourable member for Lalor just finished his speech by saying that this in fact was the greatest con game ever perpetrated or envisaged for the Australian community. 

 Mr MacKENZIE Those who would benefit solely from this would be- as the honourable member has just said- IBM Australia Ltd, the Western Mining Corporation, the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and people such as Kerry Packer. We have heard very little from the Opposition about those hundreds of thousands of people who are not a part of IBM- even shareholdersand certainly not a part of WMC or BHP, but those people who are in the remote and isolated areas of this nation and who have had extremely difficult circumstances, as far as communication is concerned, even since those isolated areas were settled. Yet it would seem that the Opposition would wish us to go back to the days of the pony express. 
The Opposition has basically opposed all that was outlined in the Minister's statement.  Hansard  will prove that the honourable member for Melbourne in particular was largely antagonistic and in opposition to this whole concept of a national satellite. But to get back to the people in the extremely isolated and remote areas of Australia about whom the Opposition appears not to be very concerned those are the people who have extremely difficult circumstances in regard to health and education services, and the availability of those services for their children. This applies particularly to the social benefits available to those families. I would say that it applies to the women, because in these isolated areas of Australia, if there is one group that has suffered over the years, it has been the women. The mothers and the wives are the ones who have to bear so much of that burden of isolation and so much of that burden of the tyranny of distance. They not only bear that burden in isolation but also many of them have to try to educate their children through correspondence or with the limited services that are provided. I know of many people- particularly wives and mothers- in those isolated areas who find that this is a tremendous burden for the family. 
In this context let us look at what the satellite can offer. The whole philosophy of the satellite principle can provide a tremendous medium of communication and contact and not only in television services. Basically, I do not see television services as the most important benefit to come from a satellite. But telephone and telephony services will be of tremendous benefit for those people who at present are not likely to get a telephone service through any terrestrial means. There are some 40,000 people living in these isolated areas. That is not an insignificant number when one realises where these people live in Australia and the contribution that they make to our export income and to our wealth. Other benefits can accrue as have been mentioned by previous speakers, such as tremendous communication facilities that we will be able to have through a satellite system for emergencies. 
What about the other groups of people who are affected? It is not only people living in isolated stations and in the pastoral industry. What about the tremendous development of mining industries in, say, the north-west of Western Australia where whole communities are isolated? These communities are completely cut off from the rest of Australia. This satellite system will provide tremendous benefits to all those new towns that are springing up in central Queensland and also in the north-west of Western Australia, in the Pilbara, and wherever else it might be. I understand that the satellite will be able to provide telephony and television services to fishing boats, if they are of a sufficient size to be able to pick up a relayed signal from a ground station on the mainland. That may not appear to be very significant to the Opposition but I believe it would be of great benefit to that industry and perhaps also the benefits of telephony and data transmission would be available. We have people who have been in Antarctica. For many years they have been extremely isolated because of the poor environmental circumstances for radio communications down to the bases in Antarctica. 
They can telephone their families at home without the interferences and delays that are currently inherent in the system. Somebody on this side of the House mentioned that there might even be some advantage for the Aboriginal settlements in Australia. I could mention the electorate of Leichhardt in which Aboriginal settlements are spread all over the far north of Australia and the Cape York Peninsula. The people in those areas have very little else, besides a good local member. For most of the year the roads and communications systems are completely cut off. That is not the fault of the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson),  but I think the good Lord might be expected perhaps to have some responsibility for those conditions. It seems that the Opposition is not very interested in the benefits that this new satellite system might provide for Aboriginal communities. 
The honourable member for Lalor interjected about Telecom. I think there is a figure in the Minister's statement which is rather interesting. From my recollection that figure shows that an outlay of between $70m and $80m will be needed over a period of some seven years between 1985 and 1992 to provide telephone services by terrestrial and conventional means for those people who presently do not have them. The amount of $70m to $80m is not an inconsiderable sum of money and it must be taken into account when we are looking at the costs of this proposed satellite. 
Furthermore, I think that the Minister and all those who have been associated with the development of this project should be congratulated. I express my sincere appreciation for the tremendous co-operation received from the Canadian members of the satellite task force and in particular an extraordinary man,  Dr John  Chapman, who unfortunately is no longer with us as he died quite recently. I pay due credit to  Dr Chapman  and his colleagues because it was the Canadians who saw fit to assist us with some experimental transmissions and in developing the final format and framework of this proposal. 
I believe that this satellite proposal which has been announced to the House this afternoon is one that will have the most far reaching implications and effects for the whole of Australia and not just for the islolated and remote communities. The figures mentioned are really astounding when it is realised that half a million people in Australia have no television service whatsoever. I find that fact incredible. Of those half million people who do not have television services, 120,000 have very few prospects of ever getting a television service. We do not have to talk solely about the remote and isolated areas of Australia when discussing the lack of television services. There are people in my electorate, which is located only a few hundred kilometres from Sydney, who have very poor television reception. I think that there was some mention today of poor television reception on the Gold Coast, which is hardly a remote and isolated area of Australia. So this facility will not only provide communications services right throughout Australia but also education services. It may well be that educational programs transmitted through the satellite system will be used by people all over Australia. Perhaps even children living in the inner city suburbs will be able to tune into a channel simply by turning on their television sets and watch an educational program that is being transmitted right throughout Australia. 
For the sake of the good management of this House I will cut my comments short, much as I am disinclined so do to as this is a most significant statement. I believe that it is perhaps the most significant communications development in this country since the overland telegraph was pushed through last century. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of the concern expressed by the managing director of a leading vehicle manufacturer in Australia that until the most severe safety standards are adopted and enforced, his company and other local car makers will not consider making liquefied petroleum gas cars on the production line? Can the Minister assure this House that adequate design and safety standards will be required in Australia for LPG vehicles and equipment? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
What would be the cost to revenue of restoring twice yearly indexation adjustments to pensions. 
What would be the cost to revenue of raising: 
age pensions; 
invalid pensions; 
widow's pensions; 
single parents' benefits, and 
unemployment benefits to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
What would be the cost to revenue of reducing the eligibility for a means test free pension from 70 years and over to 69 years and over. 
What would be the saving to revenue if family allowances were included as income for the purposes of income tax assessment. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
What were the basic salaries for Ministers and Members of the Commonwealth Parliament for each financial year from 1970-71 to 1979-80. 
For what period was each salary level effective and what was the percentage increase for each period over the previous period. 
On which occasions did the Government accept the recommendations of the Remuneration Tribunal without modification. 
What were the details of the Tribunal's recommendations and the subsequent decisions taken by the Government on those occasions where modifications were brought in. 
-Is the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Resources aware of reports that the Western Australian Government has asked the Commonwealth to establish a nuclear reactor in that State to replace the HIFAR reactor at Lucas Heights in New South Wales? Would such a request be considered by the Commonwealth Government? What effect would such a decision have on the consideration of other projects, such as the establishment of uranium enrichment plants in Australia? Lastly, what would be the employment consequences of any such decisions? 
-Today I wish to raise a matter concerning liquefied petroleum gas, particularly the recent price rises that have occurred with that commodity and the effect that they have had on consumers and local government gas undertakings. I do so because it is a particular problem in my electorate as well as being a problem on a broader scale. Many people perhaps would not realise that a large proportion of the population is reliant to some degree on LPG for basic domestic uses and heating requirements. Most people living in the major metropolitan cities of Australia have access to very cheap natural gas. That is not the case with many regional centres and is certainly not the case with people who live many long miles from the major metropolitan centres in the sparsely populated area of Australia. For example, in my electorate there are some 14,000 gas consumers. That must represent at least 30,000 or 35,000 people. 
Let us look at the situation which exists, say, in Queensland, where some people are entirely reliant on bottled gas. I understand that there are some 90,000 households in Queensland in that situation. That must represent at least 250,000 people. This problem has been brought home by my colleague the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  who pointed out that the price rises in Queensland have been extremely dramatic. For example, as of September the gate price of natural gas in Melbourne was of the order of 3.6c per therm. The price of LPG in Brisbane was 33.7c per therm, which was almost ten times the price of natural gas in Melbourne, and the price in Townsville was 48.5c per therm. I think that gives some indication of the cost burden that has occurred in recent times. In my own area, for example, there have been, I think, some eight price rises in 12 months. This has resulted in the price of LPG doubling in that period. 
One of the additional unfortunate consequences is that in recent times some local government gas utilities were given advice by the oil companies- it was the best advice they could give at the time; this was as recently as 1976 or 1977- that they should close down their coal gas plant undertakings and convert their reticulation systems to LPG. I believe that the advice given at that time was advice that was given in good faith, but of course it could not have foreseen the tremendous change that has occurred in the world as far as the energy situation is concerned. Nevertheless, these local government gas undertakings have now been saddled with a very serious and significant debt structure as a result of taking that decision, although it was seen at the time to be the correct decision. That undertaking, that debt load, will continue in some cases for up to 30 years and will have to be serviced by the ratepayers of those respective councils. 
It is a problem not only for local government gas undertakings but also for consumers, because they had to find additional moneys to convert to LPG from coal gas. The amounts of money were not very significant in some respects. Nevertheless many of them took the opportunity to buy new appliances. In my own situation we took the opportunity of purchasing a new stove. We were encouraged to do so by the gas undertaking of the local council. We now find that that stove may well be a museum piece in the not too distant future. I can assure the House that the secondhand market for gas stoves in my area is absolutely nil. There must be many people in that situation. It has not just cost them money to convert from coal gas to LPG but they now face the very real prospect of having to convert from LPG to electricity. In undertaking such a conversion they would be looking at a very significant cost structure. The cost factor involved in the conversion to gas hearing, gas hot water facilities and gas cooking may be $ 1 ,000 or $2,000. Many people who rely on gas are not at the higher income end of the spectrum. Many of them are pensioners and at the lower end of the income scale. To some extent they are the people who are least able to afford the cost of that conversion. Furthermore, there are significant employment implications. Many hundreds of people are employed in the LPG industry in my area. 
I am not objecting to the Government's encouragement of wider usage of LPG for motor vehicles and as a substitute for liquid fuels. One of the problems we face is that many people have regarded gas as an energy source which can be used for heating and cooking. Perhaps it is more appropriate that we regard gas now more as a type of pressurised petroleum. In fact, that is its real role in the future. In the mean time, there is no doubt that gas consumers are increasingly coming under competitive pressure from electricity as a major domestic energy source. Let us not forget also that coal used in electricity generation and also natural gas are not subject to excise duty as is LPG. Basically, LPG should be regarded as a high pressure petrol. I think that puts the matter into perspective. 
I am not advocating that LPG be used from now on ad infinitum as a source of heating. Indeed, that would be extravagant for a resource that can be used as a substitute for liquid fuels. However, I am advocating a wider distribution of natural gas, and it is pleasing to note that the Minister has introduced a Bill to provide for the extension of the main Moomba to Sydney pipeline from Young to Cootamundra and Wagga at a cost of $ 1 7.5m. It is also pleasing to see that the size of that pipeline has been increased so that we can have a link between the Cooper Basin fields and the Bass Strait fields. 
While I am on the subject of natural gas and pipelines, I think it is also fair to say that it is extremely difficult for local government councils to see their way clear to embark on these gas projects because they have no clear, definitive estimates of the cost. It is my understanding that the Pipeline Authority is not prepared to give a definite cost of the construction of the pipeline; it is on a final cost basis at completion. Of course, that is a very unsatisfactory situation for local government councils to try to budget for. Furthermore, there have been some significant delays in approving pipeline projects and in providing Budget funds for the construction of those projects. I believe that we should look seriously at that difficulty because I can well understand three, four or five councils being hesitant to commit themselves to a project that may involve a cost of $47m or $50m. If the repayments are spread over 30 years, is a tremendous debt burden when they do not know whether that $47m or $50m will be the final price that they have to pay for the construction of the pipeline. 
Many people have advocated that there should be a two-tier pricing structure for LPG. I do not believe that that is in the best interests of the nation at large. For those people on the Opposition side of the House who see some opportunity to advocate a two-tier pricing policy, I would like to quote the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  from  Hansard oil  May 1979. He stated: 
It would be senseless endeavouring to have naturally occurring LPG sold ahead of refinery LPG. The consequence of such a policy would be the flaring again of gas at refineries. 
Likewise, in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 14 March this year the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  is quoted as saying: 
The domestic price of LPG should be raised to nearer the export price which would help to ensure the greatest possible use of LPG within Australia. 
I make a point of reading those two quotations because there have been some opportunists in my area saying that the Government should introduce a two-tier pricing structure. In closing, I would like to make a plea to the Government to consider sympathetically the plight of those gas consumers and undertakings that will not have access to natural gas. I believe that there is a well justified opportunity for the Government to provide some level of assistance to those undertakings and to those consumers to make their plight easier and to allow an easier and more equitable transition from gas to electricity, as will inevitably occur. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. It is now IS minutes to one o'clock and in accordance with Standing Order 106 the debate is interrupted. I put the question: 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
Is he able to state which democracies in the world set both minimum and maximum age limits for parliamentary representatives. 
-Is the Minister for National Development aware that certain gas utility operators in Australia are claiming that the Federal Government is to blame for increasing liquefied petroleum gas prices through equating domestic prices with export parity prices? Is this a correct interpretation of the situation concerning LPG prices? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 6 November 1979: 
Is the Minister able to state what percentage of annual budget appropriations are committed to Social Security and welfare outlays by national governments in (a) the United States of America, (b) the United Kingdom, (c) Canada, (d) Australia, (e) New Zealand, (0 Sweden, (g) Denmark, (h) the Netherlands, (j) France, (k) West Germany and (1) Japan. 
