-I address my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. It refers to the 65% of wheat growers in Western Australia who have been allocated delivery quotas of less than 10,000 bushels, amount ing to approximately 30% of the State quota, and who are now to have these deliveries reduced by 20%. Has the Bureau' of Agricultural Economics been asked to survey this majority of Western Australian growers to ascertain what effect this drastic reduction will have on their economic viability? If the Bureau has not been asked to make such a survey, will the Minister direct it to do so as a matter of urgency before any cloak of legality is thrown over an action which may result in mass bankruptcy? Finally, will the Minister also direct the Bureau similarly to examine the position of holders of quotas above 100,000 bushels and up to 250,000 bushels to determine whether there is equality of sacrifice in a straight cut across the board of 20%? 
I do not propose to occupy the whole of the time available to me in discussing this Bill which authorises the borrowing of moneys by the Commonwealth and the issuing of those moneys for certain purposes in relation to the Australian Wheat Board. On the notice paper there is another Bill for an Act to amend the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act. I want to say at the outset that I believe it is a great pity indeed that these two Bills are not being debated together because they deal with a problem at the base of which is one single factor. The single factor at the base of the problem with which these two Bills propose to deal is that Australia today is producing more wheat than it can find a market for at profitable prices. This is the basic fact that we are trying to deal with in the Bill before us and which we will be endeavouring to deal with when we discuss the other Bill on the notice paper. 
Firstly, I would like to refer to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I listened with great interest to his remarks. As the spokesman for the Opposition on matters appertaining to primary industry the honourable member always makes a valuable and considered contribution to any debate. During the course of his remarks the honourable member referred to several sums of money in the form of overdrafts that will be the responsibility of the Australian Wheat Board and through that body the Australian wheat industry during the years to come. I am quite certain that those who listened to the additions of the various sums of money by the honourable member could not help but come to the conclusion that he was speaking about a projected indebtedness position of the Australian Wheat Board of the order of Si, 000m. I want to make the point that this, of course, is an exaggeration of any contingent indebtedness of the Board or the industry at this time, because what was not mentioned was the fact that long before these final overdrafts are raised and distributed amongst the industry growers in the form of first advance payments, sales overseas and within Australia will have liquidated quite a large amount of the earlier first advances.. 
I think that in dealing with this problem, as in dealing with other problems of the wheat industry at present, far too much talk centres on the question of the wheat involved and far too little consideration is given to the fact that we are really talking about people and not about wheat. We are talking about people, about men women and children, about families living in rural towns and directly concerned with the profitability or otherwise, with the economic viability or otherwise, of this great industry which has sustained Australia for so many years. 
We must remember that we are also talking about several different categories of growers. When we talk about the wheat industry today we talk about a vast number of growers - the majority of growers - who are genuine growers of wheat, who grow wheat for a living and whose livelihood and the livelihood of many generations before them has been dependent on the wheat industry. But we also have today another set of growers in this industry who can only be described purely and simply as speculators. Many of these growers never live in the rural areas. They live in the cities and provide finance, for the production of wheat on a purely speculative basis with no long term stake in the industry. Without a doubt they are ready to leave the industry the very moment that they can find something more profitable to which to turn their funds. 
In any discussion of the industry problems today, any attempt to deal with this problem in an across the board manner without making any differentiation between the methods that have to be adopted to take care of the traditional family growers, as distinct from the speculator, can be full of disaster not only for the family grower but also far all the people in the rural towns who are dependent on these people to sustain them and the businesses and services that they provide for the farming industry. 
I agree entirely with the honourable member for Dawson that we have no alternative other than to support the Bills. It is true, of course, that this Bill should have been debated with the other Bill; they deal with the same problem. 
During this debate I have heard quite a lot of discussion about the tremendously responsible attitude that has been shown by the industrial organisations in offering and proffering advice to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and the Government in handling this problem. I want to say, as a man who for 13 years was a prominent member of these industrial organisations, that I for one do not hold that view. I believe that the industrial organisations must take a tremendous amount of blame for the position in which the industry finds itself today. I want to go further and state in the most categorical terms that I believe the present Minister for Primary Industry and his counterparts in the States must share equally a large amount of blame for the problems and the difficulties in which the industry presently finds itself because the Ministers, both Federal and State, although holding the authority - the legislative power, the constitutional power - to take effective action to deal with this problem, did not exercise that power but preferred to say to the industrial organisation: 'You have a look at this problem. You tell us the answer to it and we will endeavour to sort the problem out along the lines of the solution you provide'. 
The honourable member wants to know what action I refer to. Let us go back to 1968. In that year the previous stabilisation plan expired. The base price of that plan was 14s 3d a bushel. The cost of production and the base price of that plan was progressively increased until it had reached, I think from memory, about 16s 8d or 16s 5d a bushel by the time it expired in 1968. As was the customary practice, the Government invited the industry to join with it in discussions about the next 5-year stabilisation plan. The industry approached the Government and in the course of their initial discussions submitted proposals to the Government in respect of- 
I would like to add something to the remarks of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  in his plea that before this measure is finally disposed of, some firm assurance will be given that the Minister Assisting the Treasurer will outline to the Committee what are the terms and conditions of repayment and the interest rate in respect of this loan. The proposal is in effect to take over from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank, a department of the Reserve Bank which was very wisely created for the purpose of providing funds at rates of interest below normal, for the purpose of financing commodity boards. We are now taking this undischarged overdraft of the Australian wheat industry out of that very favourable institution and borrowing money on terms and conditions of which we are not aware and which are to apply to an industry which today is as near to a depressed condition as it is possible for that industry to be. Certainly, in a financial sense, it is at its lowest ebb since the early 1930s. 1 agree with the honourable member for Dawson that the Parliament must know what the terms and conditions of repayment are and what interest rate is to be charged on this money. If it does not it will not be acting responsibly towards the industry that so desperately needs help, understanding and interest at this time. 
I wish to add some further comment following the remarks of my colleague, the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  I wish to repeat that I believe, and believe most emphatically, that the present problems confronting the Australian wheat industry which have necessitated the introduction of the Bill that we are discussing presently in Committee have been brought about by the price structure given the wheat industry under the last stabilisation scheme, without a doubt. This scheme has not only lifted the price of wheat beyond the level at which it would sell readily within Australia but also created one of the greatest black markets of all time in the history of the industry and indeed created the greatest problem in meeting the competition of our overseas rivals in our export markets. 
This scheme also lifted the price structure of the wheat industry and attempted, by inference, to lift the returns from wheat to such a point where every primary producer grew wheat to the exclusion of every other product. This occurred in many areas of Australia where the natural environmental production was wool and coarse grains rather than wheat. This is basically our problem. This problem was brought about by the misjudgment and mishandling of this matter by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and the industrial organisations. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether he has received a request for a study to be made of proposals put last year by a Western Australian firm for the production of alcohol from surplus wheat for use as an additive to motor spirit. If the Minister has received this request, in view of the widespread interest in the proposal as a means of reducing the present unmarketable stockpiles of wheat will he report on the progress of this study and the economic viability of the proposition? Finally, will the study have regard to the very high contingent economic waste should these stockpiles of wheat be destroyed due to the depredations of rodents, insect infestation or weather damage and bin scald? 
My question to the Acting Prime Minister refers to the statement by the Prime Minister detailing additional drought relief measures for Queensland. I ask: Has any request been received from the Western Australian Government for similar relief to the many farmers in that State who are presently making the most praiseworthy efforts to regain a semblance of financial solvency following the disastrous drought which devastated many areas last year? If such a request is or has been received, will the Government give it the same sympathetic consideration as has been given to Queensland? 
asked  the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is there any co-ordination between his Department and other departments lo prevent migrants inadvertently' bringing fool and mouth disease into Australia. 
If so, what are the details of these arrangements. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: What precautions are taken by his Department in transporting migrants from countries subject to foot and mouth disease to ensure that the disease is not brought into Australia. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What precautions are taken by his Department in countries of origin to ensure that people likely to be in contact wilh foot and mouth disease do not transmit it (o Australia. 
I support and wholeheartedly commend this Bill. Twenty-three years ago the late Joseph Benedict Chifley rose in this House to introduce legislation providing for wide ranging involvement by the Commonwealth Government in the finance sector of the Australian economy. Of course, Chifley wanted to go all the way in one step. He wanted to nationalise all the banks - a step which experience subsequently proved unnecessary and which subsequently even the Labor Party dropped from its policies. The Bill we are debating tonight would have met with Chifley's approval. It takes a leaf out of Chifley's book - perhaps a pragmatic leaf. 
This legislation is a compliment to the Government. It is a compliment because the ideas axe sound and the needs for the departure are demonstrable. It is a compliment too in the widest possible sense. In introducing legislation of this nature the Government fully demonstrates that it is in no way debarred by some antiquated preconception of what capitalism is about from bringing forth legislation which will benefit the people of Australia even if it happens to be in accord with the overall philosophy of the Opposition. The Bill stands as a monument to the pragmatic management of economic affairs devoid of mistaken commitment to some irrelevant ideological position. The legislation we are contemplating is parallel to that which gave birth to wheat stabilisation. It is in the spirit of the legislation which led to the formation of Trans-Australia Airlines, Qantas Airways Ltd and the Australian Broadcasting Commission, not to mention the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. The Bill puts paid to any argument that this Government has been too long in office and has lost the ability to initiate worthwhile new departures. It shows the Government to be both vibrant and dynamic. I fervently hope that this spirit will overflow into the economic management of the rural sector. 
The Bill provides for the formation of the Australian Industry Development Corporation whose capital shall be $100m, provided by this Government, and whose borrowing powers shall permit it to raise loans up to 5 times the amount of that capital and any reserves that it may accumulate. From the very first the Corporation, in theory, could have outstanding loans amounting to $600m. Although this figure is relatively modest when compared with the needs for long term development capital in this country, as a start it is nevertheless auspicious. It is intended that the Corporation shall concentrate its borrowing effort overseas while its local borrowing powers shall be subject to supervision exercised by the Reserve Bank of Australia. 
Two main objections have been raised in this context. Firstly, it has been suggested that in concentrating its borrowing effort abroad the Corporation will compete with the Commonwealth Government for loan moneys. Since the Commonwealth raises loans not only for itself but, more importantly, for the States, it has been argued that this competition from the Corporation could well reduce the availability of loan moneys to State governments. Any fair-minded person would conclude that whilst this objection is quite valid in principle it has very little weight in practice. The overseas loan market is a vast one and Australia's role as a borrower is a very small one indeed. The entry of an additional borrower in the form of the Corporation, seeking $500m at the most, will have at worst a microscopic effect on die world financial market. Actually I think it will have a zero effect, for a reason which I now propose to outline. . 
The intention behind the Corporation is that it shall displace, to some extent, direct overseas investment in Australia. Instead ot a large foreign corporation bringing in the money, the Australian Industry Development Corporation will bring it in. The foreign corporation would have derived ils money from the same source as the Australian Industry Development Corporation. Thus, the substitution of our corporation for an overseas corporation will have an offsetting effect on the demand for loans overseas - one borrower being substituted for another. 
The second objection one hears about this new Corporation is that it should not be restricted in its domestic borrowing because financial resources within Australia are not sufficiently well marshalled for the benefit of the country. Surely this is the first sphere which ought to be explored. I do not know enough about the efficiency or otherwise of the Australian financial system. What I do know is that the last decade has seen the emergence of consortiums, including large Australian manufacturing companies, insurance companies and other financial institutions, aimed at marshalling funds for large development projects such as the enterprise at Gove in the Northern Territory. 
I also think that there is very good balance of payments sense in the idea that the Corporation should concentrate ils borrowing abroad. My reasoning is that development projects require a large expenditure on heavy and/or sophisticated equipment of a type which we do not produce in Australia. Therefore the Corporation's activities will place a strain on the balance of payments. It makes very good sense that this strain should be cancelled before it even occurs by the Corporation's borrowing abroad. 
This brings me to yet another objection against the Corporation. This objection was voiced many years ago when the idea was first canvassed. Writing in 'Nation' on 22nd April 1967  Mr Maxwell  Newton said: 
The mere establishment of the McEwen bank cannot be expected to contribute to a solution of any general foreign exchange problem. 
I think  Mr Newton  was mistaken in this assertion. 1 shall now endeavour to tell honourable members why. In the first instance the Corporation shall substitute loan finance for equity finance from overseas, lt has been recognised always and, I believe, mathematically demonstrated by Professor Arndt and  Mr Shrapnell,  that overseas equity financing of Australian development had the potential of creating very serious financial balance of payments difficulties as a result of the gradual and substantial increase in remittances back to parent companies overseas from their Australian subsidiaries. While borrowing from abroad also had a remittance problem, it was a simple problem insofar as it involved simply the payment of the interest and repayment of the capital. The outflow of funds did not snowball if we borrowed abroad, while it snowballed if overseas companies brought equity finance into Australia. 
The second reason why I think  Mr Newton  was wrong is that overseas equity financing of Australian development retarded the growth in Australian manufactured exports, which is a problem that this Corporation will overcome. The crux is in what are known as export franchises. Where an overseas company makes an equity investment in Australia by creating an Australian manufacturing subsidiary, it quite commonly restricts the ability of this subsidiary to export from Australia. These restrictions have been documented by Professor Arndt and  Mr Sherk.  It was with respect to this problem and other associated problems that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  coined the now famous, and rightly famous, phrase: 
It is increasingly evident that what is best for  a  multi-national  giant  is not necessarily  best  for Australia. 
This legislation, as I see it, is part of a pattern designed to overcome gaps in our financial structure. One of the glaring problems in Australia is the ability to obtain long term money. Traditionally the trading banks have concentrated on short term loans through the overdraft system. The savings banks were in long term financing only in the case of housing. The insurance companies were similarly geared to housing and real estate development. Hire purchase companies and stock firms concentrated on medium term lending. In this situation the only recognised means of securing long term finance was the stock exchange. 
Over the last few years the Government has worked on this problem. It has introduced a policy to involve trading banks in more medium and long term financing. Similarly it has encouraged insurance companies to take part in financing of mining and processing ventures. The Australian Industry Development Corporation is a logical evolution of this line of thinking. I can see in this institution the manifestation of an idea which I would call creative capitalism. I have mentioned already that I think it is in the same spirit as the introduction of wheat stabilisation in the 1940s. I have always supported this line of thinking and I am delighted to see that I have secured a convert in the form of the  Deputy  Prime Minister. I well remember the distinct lack of enthusiasm with which the  Deputy  Prime Minister approached the idea of wheat stabilisation when it was first mooted. At the time I was a young radical leader of the Wheat Growers Union of Western Australia. This organisation subsequently merged with another to form the present Farmers Union of Western Australia. I fought side by side with Tom Stott who, until a fortnight ago, was the  Speaker  of the Legislative Assembly in South Australia. The two of us fought hard for creative capitalism back in those days and fought against the opposition of the more traditional interests represented by  Sir John  Teasdale and the then somewhat less experienced John McEwen. History records that we won the day. History, too, I hope, will record this legislation and will record it as a major credit entry in the ledger of life of the  Deputy  Prime Minister. 
Creative capitalism has always had a substantial measure of support amongst the farmers of Australia. Farmers have, to a considerable extent, been in favour of orderly marketing schemes and similar legislative regulation aimed at taking some uncertainty out of the farmer's life. This attitude created considerable strains where ruling parties would not contemplate departures from free enterprise ideas. Also, farmers found it difficult to swing to the support of the Labor Party because of their distaste for weak defence policies reminiscent of Munich and because the Labor Party has unfortunately always had the image of being soft on Communism. 
In my personal case I have always been in favour of creative capitalism. The Wheat Growers Union of Western Australia, in which I began my political life, was a breakaway body from the Primary Producers Association of Western Australia. It broke away because the Primary Producers Association was affiliated with the Country Party - some honourable members may smile to hear this coming from a Country Party member. Indeed, we were regarded as radical and sympathetic to the Austraiian Labor Party. In fact what we stood for and what I stood for was political non-alignment to achieve a better deal for the farmer through the Government^ involvement in the economy, if necessary. While becoming a Country Party member of Parliament, I have nol prostituted and do not propose to prostitute my personal viewpoints. They are as they have always been, pragmatic viewpoints not burdened by any rigid ideology. In this legislation 1 see something very much in accord with a long held standpoint. 1 applaud the intention voiced by the Deputy Prime Minister that this Corporation shall help build on our national resources. There is no doubt in my mind that responsible behaviour demands that we endeavour to move as quickly as possible from a situation in which Australia is a quarry to a situation where it becomes a processor. We have the undoubted potential for the efficient conversion of iron ore and coal into iron and steel. This, I think, is equally true of bauxite being turned into aluminium metal. The sooner we can switch from exporting raw minerals and start exporting in their stead firstly ingot steel and ingot aluminium, and subsequently rolled products, the better off will Australia be. 
We manufacture in this country an unconscionable quantity of goods which simply ought not to be produced here because their production is not suited to Australia for various reasons. These industries are sheltered behind very high tariffs and serve to create an overblown cost structure which in turn is built into our wage rates. Exporting industries suffer under these arrangements. Yet the gradual phasing out of these inefficient industries cannot take place unless employment opportunities are created in efficient industries so that the labour may be absorbed, if this Corporation assists in the development of efficient Australian industry, its contribution to the economic health of this country will be very tangible indeed. 
This I see as a vital 'if in this legislation. The Corporation's business activities should bc employed to the common good and this will take place if, and only if, the Corporation restricts its financing activities to those sectors of Australian industry which are efficient. This means that the Corporation should concentrate on export oriented activity and steer clear of financing ventures which have as the main reason for their profitability the fact that they shelter behind high tariff walls. 1 think that the Minister's second reading speech points in a good direction. Heaven forbid if the purpose were perverted and the Corporation were lo become yet another prop for the inefficient. In an article which I have already quoted,  Mr Newton  articulated this fear regarding the highly protected company when he said in connection with this Corporation: 
Would it not then be entirely human for a Minister whose prestige was involved to take action through other areas of Commonwealth power to make sure that the enterprise succeeded? 
It is this sort of problem that we must guard against and we hope that the annual reports of the Corporation, which have to he debated by Parliament, shall provide the necessary safeguard. To ensure that this happens. I wish to place on record that it is important that the Corporation report the allocation of its finances, amongst other things, on the basis of the type of enterprise and the type of product involved. In short, it is important that we be able to evaluate whether the money goes to the heavily protected or the lightly protected parts of the Australian economy, that is, whether the money goes to the efficient or inefficient. Further, I would request that the Government provide an undertaking that this shall be done, either during the course of this debate, or at a later stage. 
Another problem which causes me concern is the possibility of a reverse type effect. I would hale to see a situation develop where the Corporation acquires shares in, or lends to, a new venture which subsequently reveals that its profitability depends heavily on protection. I am concerned lest in this situation the investment on the part of the Corporation could be used as a weight for securing such protection. I think we should all be alive to this problem. 
The third problem is also tied up with protection. Much of our direct foreign investment is in heavily protected industries. Quite frequently heavy protection attracts an overseas giant which has first operated through agents, then set up, say, assembly facilities, and finally found that the protection made it attractive to invest in a fully  blown manufacturing process. Once a single overseas giant comes into an industry due to the protection, the global competition conditions make it important for the other multi-national giants operating in the same industry to establish themselves in Australia. We have seen this in the motor car industry with General Motors followed by Ford, Chrysler and British Motors Leyland. We see it in the farm machinery industry. We see it in the chemical industry, lt would be disastrous if the policies of the Corporation were governed by considerations of the proportion of foreign involvement in any given industry. It would be a perversion of the Corporation's role if it entered into a field on the argument that in this specific field foreign investment was dominant. The Minister stated: 
The Corporation will assist only viable projects. 
Let us not lose sight of the fact that a project may be viable through tariffs. Let us not lose sight of the fact that this Corporation is being formed for the public benefit and that public benefit is best served by expanding the efficient, lowly protected sections of industry. 
The next issue 1 turn to is the scope of the Corporation's activities. Clause 6 (2.) (d) of the Bill states that one of the objectives of the Corporation shall be to:  further the development of Australian resources necessary for the defence of the Commonwealth. 
I think this clause is admirable and I am certainly very defence minded. Nevertheless, I want to sound a note of warning here. Many a sin can be conveniently sold under the guise of its necessity for the defence of the Commonwealth. If a venture is a bona fide defence venture, well and good. But let us make absolutely sure that the ventures are bona fide defence ventures. I hope that clause 6 (2.) (a) laying down that the Corporation shall:  promote trade and commerce between Australia and places outside Australia;  will be interpreted in a wide sense. I hope the day is not far removed when we shall see Australian companies establishing overseas subsidiaries as part of a policy to boost sales of Australian components or materials. I hope this Corporation will be used to bring this day forward. For example, if we see the development of 2 more steel works - one in Western Australia at Kwinana and one in Queensland at Gladstone - based on the backloading principle, it may be advantageous for those export oriented ventures to carve out a captive market in Asia or Latin America. These captive markets could be in the form of rolling facilites which could then be supplied with Australian steel. The Corporation should be in a position to help finance the establishment of such subsidiaries. A similar situation could apply in relation to the grain trade. Australian companies or co-operatives may wish to establish manufacturing facilities for compounded feeds in overseas countries so that they could then have an assured outlet for the primary products which they are marketing. Here again I hope that the Corporation will have an active role. 
I turn now to clauses 7 and 8 of the Bill, which I consider to be wholly admirable. This Corporation needs to be flexible in its operations. The Government has certainly endowed it with those attributes essential to flexibility. 1 turn next to Part III of the Bill which deals with the board of directors of the Corporation. The Corporation is responsible to this Parliament through its board of directors. This means that Parliament must have some sanctioning power over the directors. This raises the old dilemma. We want the Corporation to be divorced from, shall I say. pork barrel politics; yet we must have some control over it to ensure its functions satisfactorily. It is well known that this sort of relationship tends to give rise to some scope for political influence. The only assurance that one can have in these circumstances that such influence will be absent or negligible lies in the calibre of the directors who shall be appointed, lt is rather a shame that this Parliament does not have the power to advise and consent as is possessed by the United States Congress. 
Nevertheless. 1 would lay down certain prerequisites for the  chairman  of the board. Firstly, he must have considerable experience in some financial sphere, preferably merchant banking. Secondly, he must have a reputation for independence of thought and action. Thirdly, he must have sufficient personal means so that the Government's power to renew his appointment will in no way influence his actions. Fourthly and lastly, he must not be a man who has been involved in highly protected industry or who has fought for high levels of tariff protection.  Sir, he  must not in any circumstances be an arch-protectionist. I would seek similar qualities in the directors of the Corporation. 1 wish the Corporation well and I want again most sincerely to congratulate the Government, especially the  Deputy  Prime Minister, on its contribution to this imaginative legislation. I hope that only good will come of this Corporation and that the pitfalls will remain speculative, never turning into reality.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  f commend the Bill. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What precautions have been taken by his Department to prevent a possible outbreak of foot and mouth disease in Australia. 
What plan of action would be used in the event of an outbreak of this disease. 
I ask the Minister for External Affairs a question. What is the position of Australia in relation to the European Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development? Does Australia intend to join? 
I ask the Minister foi Primary Industry a question which relates to the answer given bv him yesterday to a question asked by the honourable member for Paterson about the first advance payments on readily saleable over-quota wheat. Will the Minister assure the House that this privilege will be extended to the growers of over-quota wheat from the next harvest in Western Australia by requesting the Australian Wheat Board to permit the People's Republic of China unrestricted access to the wheat of that State, thus bringing this wheat into the category of being readily saleable? Finally, does the Minister recognise that the limitations, in the context of the present position of excess production, placed on Western Australian loadings under all past and existing contracts with the Chinese now constitute a flagrant differentiation between State and State by a Commonwealth instrumentality, to wit, the Australian Wheat Board? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister, lt concerns the forthcoming visit to Australia of  His  Holiness Pope Paul VI, who is not only the head of the largest congregation of faithful in the world bur is also a head of state. I ask: Firstly, would it not be fitting to take the opportunity of this unprecedented visit to invite  His  Holiness to a parliamentary function in his honour? Secondly, would protocol present any obstacles to such an invitation? Thirdly, in the light of the extraordinary circumstances involved and the totally unique standing and stature of  His  Holiness, regardless of whether protocol is an obstacle, will the Prime Minister avail himself of that world renowned trait of Australian character, friendliness and in formality, and invite  His  Holiness to Canberra so that members of the Parliament may have the privilege of meeting him in person? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is he able to state which countries. in Europe are subject to foot and mouth disease. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether a decision has been made on the commissioning of an artist to paint the official portrait of  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral,  Sir Paul  Hasluck? In making the decision as to who shall paint the portrait of this most famous Western Australian will the Prime Minister extend further recognition and honour to Western Australia by commissioning that State's internationally famous portrait painter,  Mr Owen  Garde? Finally, as portraits by Garde of notable people are hanging in many national collections abroad, will the Prime Minister endeavour to use this unique opportunity to give visitors to Canberra the opportunity to appreciate the remarkable artistic gift of Owen Garde? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Australian Wool Board factual information as to the individual membership of the International Wool Textile Organisation? If it has, will the Minister make this information available to the House, together with information showing the activity by which membership of the Organisation is claimed? For instance, are members genuine end users of wool for manufacturing purposes, or are they merchants or plain speculators? If the Wool Board does not possess this information, will the Minister request the Board to obtain it as a matter of urgency? Also, did the Minister this week receive a deputation from Western Australia which requested him to carry out a comprehensive investigation into the economics of using possibly 100 million bushels of wheat for the purpose of producing grain alcohol to be arbitrarily blended with petrol? If he did receive this deputation will he inform the House of all commitments given on behalf of the Government? 
My question, which is addressed to the  Deputy  Prime. Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry, stems from an  answer  he gave last week to the honourable member for Corangamite. The Minister then indicated that the growth rate of the chemical industry in Australia was satisfactory but that the increase  in  the profit rate was not satisfactory. Would it be correct to deduce from the very rapid growth rate of this industry, from the fact that it is one of the most heavily tariff protected industries in this country and that despite these 2 great advantages it is still a very low profit earner, that it is not an industry suited to the Australian economic environment, at least in its major parts, and that it is grossly over-capitalised? 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry received a report giving more details of the proposed measures to establish a statutory authority for the marketing of wool? If so, when can this report be made available to members and can the Minister advise the House as to the likely timetable for the implementation of its recommendations? 
My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for 
Trade and Industry. I preface my question by relating it to advice recently given to the House of Representatives by the right honourable gentleman that the Government intends to introduce amending legislation to permit it to pay a temporary additional bounty to local tractor manufacturers. I ask: Is the Minister aware that the bounty to tractor manufacturers, and the financial benefits flowing to agricultural machinery and chemical manufacturers from the tariff protection they enjoy, is financing a campaign for a grain alcohol distillery to use annually 100 million bushels of wheat; and that this grain alcohol proposal is based on wheat usage at a ruinously low price to wheat growers and an increased cost to users of motor spirit? 
I address a question to the Minister for Immigration. Why was  Mr H.  L. Davies, Senior Dairy Officer in the Department of Research and Specialist Services, Salisbury, who was invited by the Australian National Dairy Committee to attend the 54th International Dairy Federation Congress in Sydney refused permission to enter Australia? Why was the visa granted to  Mr Davies  in Pretoria withdrawn, and was it withdrawn on instructions from Canberra? If it was not withdrawn on instructions from Canberra, on whose instructions was it withdrawn? Why was  Mr R.  S. Garfield Todd, a permanent resident of Rhodesia, allowed to enter Australia last week and  Mr Davies  refused permission? Finally, as  Mr Garfield  Todd made statements to the Press on his arrival in Australia which were offensive to many former Rhodesians now resident in Australia, was this a violation of his privileged entry? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether a serious outbreak of foot and mouth disease has occurred in Lebanon, Iraq and Jordan. 
If so, what action has been taken by his Department to prevent migrants or visitors from these countries bringing the disease into Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is he in a position to say what amount of money will be left in the $30m emergency relief fund made available to wool growers whose gross incomes fell below a certain percentage in the years 1968-69 and 1969-70? As some wool growers did not qualify for this relief within the benchmarks laid down, but nevertheless incurred heavy liabilities in order to mitigate a serious decline in gross income during the prescribed years, will the Minister consider a further examination of. these cases with a view to providing assistance to these people from any balance remaining in the fund? 

 - Mr Speaker, I have listened to this debate so far with great interest. To begin with, let us take the speech of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  The honourable member, on his own admission, has not participated in this type of debate on earlier occasions. As is fitting for the shadow Treasurer, he dwelt on matters of financial accountability.  His  general proposition was that the Australian Wheat Board provides this Parliament with insufficient details of the financial aspects of its transactions. It is my opinion that this House is indebted for the honourable member's contribution and that his point is well taken. As a former Wheat Board member for 10 years or so, I am well aware of the large gap between the financial information available within the Board and that provided to this Parliament. I may be able to answer, however, a question raised by the honourable member. He wanted to know how it came about that the Wheat Stabilisation Fund had earned $10m in the form of investment income. This situation arose many years ago during the good old days when wheat prices were high and production costs were at reasonable levels, when growers were able to contribute to their own stabilisation fund and supply local requirements at less than half the export value of the wheat. As the stabilisation fund was in credit and this credit was invested in Government securities, it naturally followed that there was an investment income. This fact, however, has only historical significance at the present moment. What would be significant to know, and what the Board does not tell us, are the details of its own administrative costs, and specifically how and from whose funds the administration of the quota plan is being financed. A run down of these costs would be interesting, particularly if they were dissected on a State by State basis. 
I also found much to agree with in the address of the second  speaker,  the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay). His  broad thesis, that we should diversify, is sound. It is when he gets down to specifics that he displays a handicap - as I am sure he would readily agree - of not being sufficiently close to the detailed circumstances of primary industry. Oil seeds do permit some diversification out of wheat. Unfortunately they do so to a very limited extent only. I myself shall suggest, very much along the lines of the honourable member for Boothby, that we diversify - however, that we diversify into a different sort of wheat, or more specifically, a different type of wheat market. 
And then, of course,  Mr Speaker,  there was the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby). His  speech was one of flowing oratory, richly spiced with mentions of myths and mythology, but surely fitting for one who engages in duels at high noon on the banks of the Murray. Really I was at a loss what to say about this honourable member's speech, that is, until I seemed to remember my old Hereford bull. And then I realised what it was that took my memory back to this majestic animal. 
This is the second successive year in which the Parliament has found it necessary to take special measures to enable the Australian Wheat Board to meet its financial obligations. It seems inevitable - failing a major seasonal disaster in two or more of the wheat producing States - that if the present policies of wheat production and marketing are to continue, the need for this legislation must recur annually. If we accept this proposition - and I see no alternative - obviously we should either change our policies in respect of production or marketing, or reconstruct the financial provisions under which credit is made available to the Board. 
The debate on this Bill certainly requires that we look again at the wheat situation, and it can fairly be claimed that any attempt from any quarter to narrow discussion on this important Bill can be interpreted only as either a lack of courage to face up to the problems of the industry at a legislative level, or a failure to recognise the dangerous situation into which the industry is drifting- It is futile to dwell, and I do not propose to do so, upon many of the common issues that tend to be brought forward whenever the word 'wheat' appears in a Bill. What I shall do at the very outset is to sketch quickly the overall wheat position so that my subsequent remarks on the Bill can be seen to be clearly in perspective and in proper context. The first point is that all forecasters, be they from the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, the United States Department of Agriculture, or even from our own Professor Gruen, agree that the medium term outlook for wheat as a human foodstuff is bleak. The next 15 years or so will be difficult for producers of wheat for human consumption. 
The second point is that, if we try to picture the situation beyond, say, 1985, we must invoke the aid of a reliable crystal ball. My own crystal ball tells me that by then the Green Revolution will have run its course in Asia, Africa and Latin America. It also tells me that people in these areas will continue to breed like rabbits. So some time after 1985 demand will again be the dominant partner in the supply-demand balance of basic human foodstuffs. This is ali very well; but who can wait for 15 years or so? Can we enact this sort of legislation for another 15 years? Certainly my constituents cannot sit idly by waiting for the day when these much talked-of starving millions will reappear. Nor am I prepared to sit idly by in this place and condemn them to such a soul-destroying future. So the question is: What will we do in these years ahead, and, more importantly, what should we do now? 
To make sure that the problem, of which the financial measure presently before the House forms an integral part, is clearly understood, let me state that I am dealing with that slice of Australia known as the wheat-sheep belt, where dry farming is almost universal and where something like half a million people depend directly or indirectly on dry farming for their livelihood. These are the farmers and their employees, the shopkeepers and agents in country towns, and, of course, their wives and their children. The next issue is: What are the practical options in this slice of Australia? They would be, in the main, wheat, wool, beef, barley, oats, oil seeds and various odds and ends. Wool has a dismal short term, medium term and long term outlook. The stockpile held by the Australian Wool Commission, bought in at ruinously low prices to growers after being neglected by the trade, can only mean that wool is already being grossly over-produced. With wheat under quotas, the 2 main options are closed for the time being. Farmers are turning to beef where practicable, but here supply is rising rapidly relative to markets immediately available at payable prices. Although this product appears to have an excellent long term future, it will no doubt be a victim of the primary industry domino theory in the short and medium term. Oil seeds certainly do not hold unlimited promise and as for the traditional course grain alternatives, barley and oats, there is a dramatic swing towards them which I will argue is not to the best interests of farmers or the nation. 
With this sketch of the broad background to the Bill, I now turn to its more specific issues. I shall submit propositions which will eliminate the necessity for the Government to make extremely large and long term loans to the Australian Wheat 
Board. At the same time these suggestions, if adopted, will mean greater incomes to the farmer in the wheat-sheep belt. The immediate reason for large and longer term loans by the Government to the Board is, of course, the existence of a large slowmoving stockpile of wheat. The reason for the size and slow movement of the stockpile is a policy of the Australian Wheat Board which received the support, if not the promotion, of the previous Government. In a nutshell, that policy is that wheat marketing for export and to a large extent for local purposes means almost exclusively the marketing of wheat for human consumption. For various reasons the Board has decided to stick to the sort of marketing it has traditionally engaged in rather than try something new in the light of new conditions. Some of its reasons make sense, others do not. 
To begin with, I would like to examine some of the consequences of the present policy of the Board. Let us take a broad estimate of 18 months between the time that the first advance is paid on wheat and the time that the Board either receives the proceeds of sale of the wheat or has received the deposit on that part of the delivery which has been sold on credit. The first advance on that wheat is 1 10c less the relevant freight applying. This freight is drawn from the overdraft account as the wheat is railed. As soon as the grower delivers his wheat he obtains an average of 92c which is the amount that the Board has to borrow straight away. Another 3c or thereabouts is spent on other expenses almost immediately. The balance is drawn against the overdraft and paid out as the wheat is railed. The interest cost alone on a bushel of wheat held for 18 months would amount to about 7ic when everything is accounted for, including the interest on the rail freight paid. 
On top of this, the wheat has to be kept in good condition. This means that weevil infestation must be kept under rigid control and in such a way as will not render the wheat unsuitable for either human consumption or stock feed due to chemical impregnation. This means that turning and aeration must be used to the maximum possible extent. The cost of this can be between Mc and 2c per bushel. Despite these precautions, the wheat loses value either because weevils gel in - they have an ability to develop immunity - or the chemical levels rise to a point of high concentration. The wheat also becomes stale. Adding these costs, one comes up with a total of at least 10c per bushel. But if this were the whole story, I would not be so disturbed. It so happens that this is only half the story. 
I am not going to attempt to assess the extent to which the Board's marketing position is weakened by the widely publicised knowledge throughout the international grain trade that the Board is sitting on a carry-over of 265 million bushels and what this knowledge is ultimately costing the grower in cents per bushel. Nor that big stockpiles which move slowly ensure that the farmer's second and subsequent payments are long delayed. This is another big worry. The longer they have to wait, the more time it takes them to repay debts. This again leads to greater total payments by way of interest. There is also the other problem of inflation. The longer they have to wait for their money, the less that money is worth. The final cost is a real killer. Any man with common sense must know that a large stockpile which moves slowly requires not only large storages but also far more sophisticated storages. If a farmer is going to keep wheat for 3 months, he can just about stack it in the paddock and it will keep in good condition. If he keeps it for 18 months, he will need very elaborate and very costly bins. When it is all assessed and added up, when it is all finally disposed of and paid for, the stockpile could penalise farmers to the total tune of 20c per bushel when we make due allowance and add in the additional interest rate provided in the Bill now before the House. 
What I want to propose would make the stockpile move a lot quicker, would cut down the Board's overdraft and the costs to the farmer, and render unnecessary this and future emergency financial measures. It could reduce these costs to the farmer to one-quarter of the estimated 20c per bushel. A more important feature of the suggestion is that growers could produce more wheat instead of plunging into barley and oats, and their overall net income would be the better for it. I suggest a large scale plunge into the international feed market. This plunge is to be preceded by a top level delegation from this Government, headed by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr 
Anthony) or our new Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to Japan. The object of the delegation would be to trade tariff concessions in  return for  a change in the rules under which the Japanese Food Agency operates. This deal would have many advantages. It would be timely on the tariff side both in view of the United Kingdom joining the European Economic Community and because of our own internal and domestic inflationary pressures. These would be reduced with selective tariff relaxations. Conversely, it is pure inflation to produce a great stockpile of wheat which is only represented by credit until it is sold. 
It could be argued to the Japanese that their economy would benefit because of cheaper feed and of greater export opportunities. Our farmers would have an increase in sales of at least 100 million bushels per year potential which is twice the size of the former China market. The price for wheat received by the Australian Wheat Board would admittedly be lower, but the return to the farmer per bushel could possibly be higher than at present because the costly delays in realisation would disappear. We should capitalise on the advantage of the very nature of wheat. It goes 37 bushels to the ton, whereas barley goes 40 bushels to the ton and oats 50 bushels to the ton. This automatically means cheaper shipping. We also have geographical advantages in relation to Asian markets. In addition, wheat is more valuable per ton than other grain because of its greater nutritive value. There is at least 15 per cent more nutrient in a ton of wheat than in a ton of barley. 
I could go on for much longer,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and deal with the dangers inherent in the present policy of the growers industrial organisations - presently being accepted by the Government - of encouraging increased production by increasing production quotas against the background of the Board's present limited marketing policy associated with its big carry-over stocks. But I am sure that if I did, you would tell me that I was getting too wide of the Bill, notwithstanding that this is basically what the Bill is all about. So I will conclude with an appeal to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  that my suggestion be given the most serious consideration. It is a reasoned suggestion which I am sure a reasonable government will not discard without investigation. If it is followed, 1 believe it will obviate the necessity for another such Bill to be before us next year, and will make a magnificent contribution towards a return to stability in our rural areas.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I support the Bill. 
Is the Minister for Trade and Industry aware of the magnitude of the problem confronting the People's Republic of China in its efforts to gainfully employ and raise the living standards of its vast population? ls he conversant with the policy of that Government to purchase raw materials in their most basic form and process them into a finished article for presentation to world markets, in conformity with the need to provide maximum employment opportunities? Will the Minister request the Australian Wool Commission to send a mission, comprising persons fully qualified and experienced in wool selling and processing techniques as well as at least one person skilled in handling and arranging finance, to the People's Republic of China with a view to selling direct to its Government wool from the stockpile presently held by the Commission? Furthermore, because of the meticulous manner, in which the Chinese have honoured their commitments in the purchase of Australian wheat on credit, will the Minister authorise this mission to enter into credit transactions, if required, on much the same terms of payment as have been successfully negotiated by the Australian Wheat Board? Finally, in the review and restructuring of the Australian Tariff Board will the Minister give consideration to offering advantages to Chinese exports in return for contracts for the purchase of Australian wool? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: In order that wheat growers and financial institutions assisting the industry may have the most authoritative advice on which to base their future financial requirements, will the Minister inform the House of the state of all unfinalised pools? Will he give the House the maximum information available as to the estimated final realisation of these pools, the anticipated date of final realisation, the anticipated date of the next payment from these pools, and finally, the estimated amount of the next payment? 
 It is perhaps appropriate as we debate this Bill today to note the text on our desk calendars. For those who have not I will quote it It reads: 
Our spiralling cost of living can turn a nest egg into chicken feed. 
It is unfortunately true that this piece of philosophy has direct application not only to the people designed to be assisted by this legislation but also to the many industrious senior citizens who, over the years of their working life, have strived and saved to provide a little extra for their retirement. It is also true that whilst we must use every device at our disposal to contain inflation, inflation in association with limited marketing opportunities and declining prices has now rendered necessary a major rescue operation in most of our primary exporting industries. This Bill is one of several pieces of legislation which, when regarded in their totality, represent a formidable policy package with an unambiguous basic intention. The other components of the package are the new provisions for retraining displaced labour introduced by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  the other night. 
Finally, and closely allied to all of this, is the statement by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  on the Tariff Board signalling a new emphasis in more rational tariff policy. That these three things have failed to be linked and that the totality of their impact has not been appreciated, is something that literally amazes me. What the Government is doing, and doing deliberately, is introducing a far reaching programme to help economic change to take place. This Bill helps to minimise the losses of farmers who have to leave the industry. The new emphasis in tariff policy means an active attempt to close inefficient manufacturing industries. The labour retraining legislation then looks after the ex-farmer and the worker released from economically inefficient factories subject to closure under our new approach to tariffs. It trains both for new jobs. 
But I see much more in this. I see a vast canvas transformed into a scenery by a talented artist who moves with patience and deliberation towards a grand conception to which he is privy. We now see the broad brush strokes clearly identifying the intention. The details will still evolve, but the universal design is there for all to see. I recognise the design, I recognise the style, and I recognise the mastery. Those who do not should cast their minds back a little while and ask themselves what the Treasury was talking about only a few years ago when a certain determined gentleman was at its head. What were those battles about? Was there not on one side the argument that the vested interests, especially in manufacturing, be protected indiscriminately, while the other side wanted to help the economy adjust in such a way as would benefit all? 
The totality of these measures proves 2 things. One is that truth ultimately prevails. The other is that McEwenism was but a peculiar little ripple atop a great deep ocean. 
While I applaud the grand design and see in it the steady, patient and thoughtful influence of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  I am not entirely happy about some of the details of the Bill before us. Presently I will look at these details, but prior to doing so I want to make one point. Opposition members would be well advised to look at these various pieces of legislation more closely. The States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill is a social measure. The retraining legislation was a social measure. The first public act of the Prime Minister, the increase in pensions, was a social measure. Very soon the Opposition will have only  Mr Hawke's  leg to stand on, and it is a rather wobbly leg at that. To picture the McMahon Government as a big business government, as some of the 7 day wonders who got themselves elected to this place the year before last would maintain, rings as hollow as the copy of 'Pravda' where they read it. I suggest to these members that they roll up that newspaper, stop listening to  Mr Carmichael  and  Mr Hawke,  and pay closer attention to what is really happening in this chamber because the next election will be a bloodbath, and the oncers should at least take away sufficient memories to entertain their grandchildren. At least let them be able to recount properly to them the magnificence of the remaining members of the old guard, and their valiant stand in the interests of a migration policy which historically has preserved our working standards. 
I would describe the reconstruction scheme as generous in concept but deficient in detail. The scheme provides for two uses of funds. The first is debt reconstruction and the second is farm build-up. In the first case, funds will be lent to the farmers who are in trouble but have the potential of being viable once they have been helped over their temporary difficulties. They can receive 20-year loans at interest rates between 4 per cent and  6i  per cent. The farm build-up part of the scheme is designed to lend money to farmers who want to and, but for the lack of proper finance, are able to buy out their smaller less efficient neighbours. In the case of Western Australia, those farmers have to pay at least  6i  per cent and have 25 years to pay back the loan. 
In Western Australia, applicants must fill in an 11 -page booklet, which is the application form, and send it in through their own trading bank. This last proviso is a sound one. The farmer deals through the people he knows and the people who know him. The real practical problem is that neither the debt reconstruction nor the farm build-up provisions is of any use in areas where farmers are all in bad straits. 
The outline of how the scheme operates, circulated in Western Australia, highlights this fact. It prints in bold letters the following words: 
. the prime requirement being the ability to service commitments. 
This practical problem has arisen already and has attracted much attention. Something has to be done about it because the uniformly depressed areas are the very places where help is most urgently needed. Although the farm build-up part of the scheme is the more interesting part, it is of much smaller significance in my State than the debt reconstruction part. This is because farms are mainly large and very efficient in Western Australia. The average wheat property in Western Australia is more than twice as large as the average wheat property even in New South Wales. 
The problem of the debt reconstruction part is that in the wheat-sheep areas farmers have been hit from both sides. Many are unable to service any debt at all, which simply means they cannot gain access to the cheap finance under this measure to refinance dearer loans 
I believe that the same thing is happening substantially throughout Australia. Similarly, the build-up provisions will be of limited merit in wheat/ sheep areas even though the proposal has much to commend it. For example, where a farmer buys out a neighbour, the redundant buildings may be written off following Government subsidy. This is sensible and sound. 
The philosophy of a CommonwealthState partnership in this scheme is also sensible. The States usually have a more complete knowledge of local conditions and the closer the administration is to the site of operations the better. However, the amount of money provided is minute when set against the size of the problem. When, however, we look at this in the light of the inflationary problems plagueing the country, the amount begins to look realistic. After all, the Government has to try to balance the economy as best it can and therefore must limit its outgoings in any one year. I think that in principle the Commonwealth has behaved generously towards the States in this scheme. It has given them an interest margin for one thing. For another, and very importantly, it has undertaken to underwrite any losses that the States may incur in administering the scheme and which result from circumstances beyond their control. I think that the Minister was being a little coy in justifying the scheme to the public. He said that people should not begrudge the wool growers this assistance as the growers had not been assisted in any way in the past. What the Minister did not say - and what needs to be said - is that the wool industry has paid for a big share of the tariff protection accorded to the manufacturing industries and it is getting very little back. I sincerely trust that as the Government gets on top of the inflationary problem - as it no doubt will now - it raises substantially and progressively the amounts under these provisions. In the interim, I hope that the detailed application of existing provisions be so liberalised as would permit them to reach where assistance is most urgently needed. I support the Bill. 
I turn now to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and perhaps more particularly to the remarks made by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  and his discussion of a moratorium and a stay of proceedings in respect of debt and hire purchase commitments and other things of a like nature. I can well remember standing on a platform some 3 or 4 months ago in Wyalkatchem in the heart of the wheat belt of Western Australia. As some honourable members will recall, this is the home town of my predecessor in this House, the former honourable member for Moore,  Mr Hughie  Leslie. 1 and other speakers were cm this platform to be present at a meeting called by a new organisation in Western Australia known as the Rural Women's Association of Western Australia. This new organisation was established substantially by farmers' wives who, despairing of the efforts of their husbands to do something effective about the rural situation, decided to have a go at the situation themselves. 
On the eve of the State election in Western Australia the members of that organisation invited all the representatives of the political parties to be present on the platform to deliver to a very substantial gathering of women from rural areas the policies of their parties and what they proposed to do in respect of the rural crisis. As well as myself, the then  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, now the Premier of Western Australia, John Tonkin, and  Mr John  Rogers, general  president  of another new organisation established in Western Australia known as the United Farmers and Graziers Association, were present on that platform. This new association which is political as well as industrial but which claims to be non-party political proposes that on the eve of each election, both Federal and State, it will direct its voting preferences in certain directions in exchange for commitments and obligations by leaders of the major political parties. 
It sounds a little like the DLP, but some of its actions may not sound quite so much like those of the DLP. In fact, I do not know whose actions they sound like. But I will tell honourable members about this association in a minute. The representatives of a number of other political parties were present also. During the course of these discussions the present Premier of Western Australia, the then Leader of the Opposition, was asked what he was prepared to do about the rural crisis. The present Premier of Western Australia said - the honourable member for Kalgoorlie could have been repeating the words spoken by the present Premier of Western Australia- 
That is right. He won the election and he promised, of course, to introduce a moratorium, and to do all sorts of things in return for the preferences of the candidates of the United Farmers and Graziers Association. 
I would like to quote from an article appearing in the 'West Australian' of Friday, 30th April 1971. The heading is: Tonkin Accused of Breaching Pact'. The article reads as follows: 
The political wing of the United Farmers and Graziers Association of Western Australia yesterday accused the Premier,  Mr Tonkin,  of not honouring a gentleman's agreement made before the State election in February. It said that it gave the ALP its second preferences on condition that the ALP would take immediate action to alleviate farmers' problems if it won the election. 
Spokesmen for the UFGA independent candidates' organisation, which fielded candidates in 19 seats in the election, said that the Parly had 2 meetings with  Mr Tonkin. 
Yes. The article continues: 
On October 13th last year the Party's Executive made the agreement with  Mr Tonkin  and on January 29th this year it was confirmed . . . 
The agreement referred particularly to a stay of financial proceedings by banks and hire purchase firms till matters were sorted out and arrangements made for marketing authorities for rural produce. 

 Mr Tonkin had agreed to implement such measure immediately after the election in an early session of Parliament in exchange for the UFGA preferences. 
But there was to be no early session of Parliament. It was 10 weeks since the election and little had been done. 
Time was running out. Aid was needed before June. After that it would be too late in most areas. 
If we had known when we gave the ALP our preferences what would happen we would have thought very hard about it', said  Mr Legge,  who was a candidate for Merredin- Yilgarn - one of the 3 seats the ALP won from the Liberal-Country Party Coalition to become the government. 
Incidentally, that man is a constituent of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. The article continues: 
A 5-man UFGA deputation saw  Mr Tonkin  earlier this week,  Mr Legge  said.  Mr Tonkin  said that there would be no early session of Parliament. 
He was sympathetic to farmers' problems. 
The  President  of the UFGA,  Mr John  Rogers, said yesterday: 'We are amazed at the lethargy and seeming lack of concern by the Government at the desperate situation of farmers. 
The Government says that Parliament must meet before it can implement its first 2 promises - the stay of financial proceedings by banks and hire purchase firms and the approval of marketing authorities to sell all rural produce. 
This is fair enough. But the idea of convening a special session went overboard and now we are told that Parliament will not meet for 3 or 4 months.' 
I reject in its entirety the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson. I support in its entirety the Bill introduced by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  a Bill sponsored on behalf of the McMahon Government. I believe that what the McMahon Government has said it will do under the provisions of this Bill will be done, and I believe that, if its provisions prove to be insufficient, more funds will be forthcoming to finish the job. (Quorum formed) 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. As there is still some doubt about Government policy towards limitations on funds available to the Australian Wool Commission for the purpose of price maintenance at wool auctions, will the right honourable gentleman indicate whether there has been any change in policy in this important area of assistance to this great national industry? 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry explain the position of the Australian Wool Commission in relation to the setting of charges made on growers by wool selling brokers, whether affiliated or non-affiliated members of the National Council of Wool Selling Brokers of Australia? If the Commission is a party to the control of charges, can the Minister explain why charges were increased within the last week, coinciding with the Government's confirmed assistance to the wool industry under the cost compensation scheme? Furthermore, can the Minister explain the charge of 0.4 per cent being raised against growers under the Wool Commission Act as set out at page 10 of his statement which was presented to the House last Friday? Finally, does this 0.4 per cent in addition to the increased brokerage charges mean, in effect, that the Commission in company with brokers is taking away a significant portion of the cost compensation being paid to growers? 
My question to the Minister for Primary Industry refers to the authoritative and confirmed report that money has been drawn against the first advance overdraft in respect of wheat deliveries in New South Wales and paid to growers in that State contrary to the agreement between the Commonwealth, the States and the growers' industrial organisation. I ask: Will the Minister, during the next 2 weeks, have prepared and present to the House a government audited statement showing (a) the amount of wheat delivered to the licensed receivers in each State in each year of the quota delivery arrangement, such statement to show the quality classification of the wheat and whether it was accepted for delivery as quota wheat, over-quota wheat or non-quota wheat; and (b) the total amount of money drawn against the first advance overdraft and the distribution of this money in its various categories, both interstate and intrastate, and having application to the quantities and classifications set out in (a)? 
Has the Minister for Trade and Industry read the article in the business section of today's Melbourne 'Age' headed 'Don't Lose your (Woven) Shirt'? Does the Minister accept the Tariff Board's estimate that the cost to the Australian public of this specific and single piece of protection - that is the tariff protection of woven shirts - is presently $30m per annum and is soon to rise to $39m per annum? Is the Tariff Board's opinion correct that the present levels of protection are hard to justify having regard to the industry's efficiency and economic worth? Was this opinion arrived at after proper examination and consideration by the Board? If it was, will the Minister reconsider the decision to continue the present policy of total protection for another 18 months and make an immediate start on a rapid rate of progressive reduction until the degree of protection reaches a sensible and realistic level? 
I rise to speak on this Budget with very mixed feelings. I am not certain what sort of a financial structure its architects set out to design, and what I see I like but yet fear. I know that everyone, especially farmers, desperately need a break from inflation. But I also know that it is electorally disastrous to provoke substantial unemployment. I believe that this Budget will put a brake on inflation, but I also believe that it will be electorally dangerous to hold the damper on the economy till the end of the financial year. It will be good economics to give the economy a boost before then, and I think the Government will do so. Therefore I am satisfied with the Budget in tha overall sense. 
The economists whose statements I read agree that inflation at this moment is not due to too much demand for goods. Cost pressures, they say, are responsible, especially wages, cancellation of by-laws, and some indirect taxes. The Budget works by cutting demand. and so one can argue that it has missed the point. However, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has explained that he expects the cost inflation to be fortified by demand inflation. The Budget, he says, should prevent this. In more general terms, a bit of unemployment in the cities should give pause to the unions. It will be more difficult to back wage demands by strike action. Jobs will not be so easy to get, and the rank and file factory workers will not want to take the risk of strike action. 
I think cost inflation will get quite a jolt, and this is all to the good. The thing that worries me is that the Treasurer might be acting just a little too statesmanlike. We might be cutting off our nose to spite our face. For the first time since Chifley, we have a Prime Minister who has a liking for and an understanding of economics. He is even one up on Chifley as he has been fortunate to have university training in this subject. We want to keep it this way for many years to come, and I believe we will. I want to see the economy put back into position the very moment that the Budget has bitten deeply enough into inflation. We need a Labor government like we need a hole in the head. Members of the Australian Labor Party sound really good until we look at all their policies put together. When we do this they add up to a national disaster. To pay for their promises, they would have to tax the living daylights out of any Australian who through hard work, study, or taking risks has lifted himself above the average. I do not know anyone who would not like more money spent on the underprivileged or on education. But I know many who fear that Labor will kill the goose that lays the golden eggs by trying to do too much too soon. It will dangerously reduce the job opportunities for those who wish to work. The people who work the most in this country are those who work for themselves or are senior employees - the doctors, lawyers, farmers, grocers and the responsible executives in business and so on. If you tax away their incentive for hard work they will just coast along. In one fell swoop you have destroyed the motive power pulling the country. We must never allow a rookie mechanic to tamper, all by his little self, with a pretty delicate piece of machinery. Labor has no experience. It is committed to too many expensive promises. It is too hamstrung by internal hangers on. For these reasons it could not govern. For the sake of the welfare of Australia, this Government has no right to place itself at electoral risk. 
I think there must be and will be a boost before next August. Tax cuts next August will be too late - that is if I read my Budget Papers correctly. In one of the supplementary statements the Treasurer tells us all about the long delays before new tax measures start to make their presence felt. If it works one way it must also work the other way. Therefore, if unemployment mounts, we must put the engine into forward gear well before next August. 
I want to say something about assistance to the farmer. I really hate to call it assistance. Actually it is compensation for all those years of invisible subsidies to manufacturers. Farmers paid and still pay much of the tariff. They pay far more than their fair share of that $2,700m annual subsidiary to secondary industry. The compensation to primary industry has admittedly gone up by $64.5m, although I think, as does just about everyone else, that the wool grower will require more than the $60m which is budgeted for. One thing I find very interesting is that the increase in overall compensation to the wool industry, as budgeted, is really less than people imagine. This is because last year's emergency assistance has been withdrawn. The net increase is therefore only $42. 5m as budgeted. The biggest growth item in the field of compensation is expenditure partly designed to eliminate those to be compensated. The spending on general rural reconstruction and dairy reconstruction goes up by $44.5m - a significant increase. 
Wheat industry stabilisation payments are expected to be down by SI. 75m. This has no connection with the current international wheat prices. The Government pays the Australian Wheat Board only when a pool has just about been finalised. This takes a few years. The budgeted expenditure on wheat stabilisation is therefor a piece of history. An unhappy situation is portrayed in the figures on fertiliser bounty. Expenditure on this item is due to fall by 82.75m. On the other side of the ledger we have the brand new $3m plan for apple and pear stabilisation. This industry is deeply troubled. The European Common Market developments will treat it unkindly. Even though this matter is more a question for Tasmania and Victoria it illustrates the universal plight of the agriculturalist in this country today. 
Before leaving the question of the difficult rural crisis and the problems of bringing relief to this disaster area, I would like, in the short time at my disposal, to devote some time to a consideration of the proposed deficiency payment scheme for the 1970-71 wool clip. Perhaps its more accurate title would be the temporary cost compensation scheme. It is interesting to note that approximately 3 million bales of the Australian wool clip can be categorised into 16 different basic groups of types. These 3 million bales embody from the best to the worst types of merino wool, embracing fleeces, pieces and bellies. It is within these 3 million bales that the hard core of the Australian merino sheep industry exists. If we are to look at any form of compensation for the wool industry, there must be some foundation on which this protection can be firmly based. Firstly, it should be said that the scheme outlined by the Government does not have such a base and is designed not as a real protective measure, but merely as a temporary palliative. Indeed, the scheme has been designed to operate on the premise that on the one hand there will be a realistic price support afforded by the Australian Wool Commission while on the other hand a deficiency payment will ensure a firm national level for the whole clip. The big squeeze will be on the wool buyers. They will be the meat in the sandwich.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  how long will this situation remain workable? Hopefully I will suggest that, for one basic reason, it will not last long. 
Wool as an apparel fibre is far from the ultimate in processing simplicity. It requires many and varied processes to bring it to a satisfactory level in the end product. It is quite unlike man made fibres in this regard. AH of the world's leading textile apparel processors are well aware of this fact and clearly do not need any added discouragement in the use of wool. I would suggest that continued pressure by agencies of the Federal Government aimed at forcing a false value into wool will inevitably lead to less confidence in the future of wool generally. This should not be taken to refer to deliberate actions against buyers, but more specifically at actions which give growers of wool a completely false grasp of the true situation. The present cost compensation or deficiency payment scheme, I feel, does follow this path by encouraging production in a general sense to achieve the highest possible average price at auction, (indee the present free auction system of marketing this scheme will prove far from satisfactory, even in the short term, to wool users. But perhaps even more importantly still, it will prove of less value to the future of pure merino wool production in Australia. It is a well accepted fact that the downturn in production of better types of merino wool was not precipitated by rising costs. Rather it had its beginnings within the auction sale room where a slackening in demand for all wool weakened competition for the better types available. It followed that the lower the wool market came, the poorer the competition for these better types became. Growers can hardly be blamed for following this trend by compensating for their lower returns with higher stocking rates from more average types of sheep, and short-cut methods of flock management. 
In plain terms,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the Government's proposed system of deficiency payment will certainly not promote the production of better types of wool and will rapidly drag the merino wool industry down to the level of its overseas conpetitor producers. Australian merino wool had a distinct advantage and still retains a slight advantage for its fine characteristics. Textile processors are clearly finding already that the product they once bought with confidence now has only limited advantages over other fibres. To my mind the only corrective measure which can be employed to retain confidence in the large scale use of wool is a compensation scheme offering sufficient incentive to all growers for the production of higher quality better grown wools. If the proposed deficiency payment scheme is implemented under the methods already indicated by the Government any long or short term intentions directed at eventually acquiring the entire clip may well find insurmountable problems and in fact this plan could make the task of acquisition an extremely dubious proposal.  I  believe,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the Government has every reason to institute immediately a complete acquisition concept to all wool, regardless, so that while we still have an industry it can be put into a more economic and stronger competitive position, with the benefit of central direction and the proper incentives to present a quality wool.  If  we do not take this course it may well be that even after this present costly and heartbreaking experience - in, say, 18 months or 2 years from now - the production of merino wool will be fragmented into an irretrievable position. 
Now,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I turn to another matter which is causing me the gravest concern. It is a very serious and rational reservation which I have about this Budget. I refer to the failure to increase financial aid to independent schools in the face of very steep rises in teachers' salaries as well as quite substantial increases in other costs. The failure to increase assistance is false economy. It not only could, but most certainly will, result in closures of Catholic schools. It will accelerate the enrolment of Catholic children in State schools simply because parents will be unable to pay the higher fees which must be levied to keep the independent schools semi-solvent. During the last 8 years,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I have maintained a firm and consistent attitude on this matter and not, sir, on account of any philosophical bias. Supporters of State aid say that they pay through taxes for a system of education which they do not patronise. They pay again for the system of their choice. This they regard as inequitable. Opponents of state aid argue that Catholics are free to enrol their children in State schools and if they elect not to do so then they must be prepared to pay again. No one can pronounce either argument as being completely wrong. My view is the practical one. Take secondary pupils, for instance. This year the annual cost of educating one secondary pupil in a State school will be about $600. Total grants from Commonwealth and State Governments, together with tax concessions, barely cover a third of this amount. So any student who is forced out of a Catholic secondary school and into a State one costs that State about $400 a year extra. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, it makes no sense at all to court fiscal disaster by engaging in financial brinkmanship with the hard pressed Catholic education system. There is a perfectly sound and unexceptionable financial argument for a substantial increase in Commonwealth assistance to independent schools. It would be economically irresponsible and indeed politically ridiculous not to do so in the next Budget and sooner should the opportunity arise. A convocation of Cathlic bishops in Sydney some 3 weeks ago went on record as criticising this serious budgetary omission. Anyone with the slightest doubt about this financial plight ought to do the rounds of the parish schools in his electorate. It takes a lot for a mild-mannered and highly respected churchman - such as Archbishop Young of Tasmania - to come out as he did the other week after the Tasmanian Budget was presented and to say the things that he said. With the Tasmanian Catholic school system in tatters, the State Government raised its grants by $4 per pupil per annum. It was given ample documentary evidence on the scope of the problem but it chose to ignore this quite blatantly and with total recklessness and irresponsibility. This extreme provocation had a predictably explosive sequel. The Archbishop said that he would close some schools. He further stated that the selection of these schools will be deliberate and judicious. I quote from a newspaper report of his remarks: 
The impact will be felt in politically sensitive and crucial areas'. 
All that I can conclude,  Mr Speaker,  is that the Premier of Tasmania has taken leave of his senses. He must have the most highly developed suicidal tendencies in Australia, apart from being an utter political amateur and fiscal mismanager. He will be annihilated at the next State elections and I would not risk a dollar on him,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  even if he starts at 100 to 1. Treasury advisers and economists must have told the Government how much the Commonwealth saves by keeping Catholic schools afloat. I am completely confident that the next Budget will give this the recognition it deserves. I only regret again that this Budget did not do so. 
Perhaps.  Mr Speaker,  this is another matter which the Government could do something about before next August. What concerns me deeply about this Budget is the continued growth in departmental spending. Despite all public statements implying the contrary, we have a mushrooming bureaucracy. As one who is concerned with efficiency, I recommend a thorough housecleaning in this area of government. I am sure the whole place is riddled with people looking after people, that is, people employed because someone has to control people employed. I know that grass roots supporters of both the Liberal Party and the Country Party have little love for Public Service empires - great bottomless pits working under cover of secrecy. 
Finally,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  it is appropriate at this time to look back over our shoulders and to note the things which we have achieved and which have happened since the introduction of the previous Budget. For me the most exciting event has been the long overdue recognition that the Tariff Board is a body of men who knew what they were talking about and that the recommendations made in their annual reports were matters of substance and vital to the wellbeing of the Australian economy. This was one of the things of which I dreamed and said: 'Why not?' 1 welcome with open arms the decision of the Government to implement the Board's recommendation that there be a general review of the whole tariff structure. I pray that the Board will be reconstructed and developed in such a way that this work may proceed as a matter of great urgency. I plead that economies on Government spending be not used as an excuse and a subterfuge to delay further and frustrate this essential basic economic reform. I note the departure from the political scene of the high priest of protection and the general acceptance of the abandonment of the futile philosophy of protection all around. I recognise as of academic interest only the question of whether the philosophy failed because of the departure of the high priest, or whether the high priest departed because of the imminent failure of the philosophy. I look back on my Budget speech of almost exactly 3 years ago with the thought that perhaps the effort and thought put into it were not, after all, just another wasted exercise. 
I pause now,  Sir, to  think of the exporting industries on which we rely so heavily for the wealth on which our prosperity depends, and to my own State of Western Australia which has paid so dearly as a result of the over-generous protection given to the industrial complexes of eastern Australia. I anticipate with great expectancy the revival of growth and discovery of further export potential of Western Australia, with an invasion of even more export markets with basic commodities, competitively priced, and produced against the background of a sane cost structure. 1 do not despair of the future, either immediate or long term, and believe that adversity will bring to the surface again those desirable characteristics of the great mass of Australian people; and the things of real value in our way of life will again assume their rightful place. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Primary Industry, is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Darling. Does the suggested inclusion in the price support plan of these presently excluded heavy hurry and carbonising types of wool mean that the price for better types of wool, including well grown merino types, will be reduced? 
I want to deal briefly with a matter of major importance to the Australian wool industry and the Australian public. I refer to the budgeted amounts of funds for wool industry assistance. Everyone realises by now that the amount allocated will nowhere near meet the requirements of the industry but that, notwithstanding this unpalatable truth, the proposals must proceed and the industry must be given this vital breathing space in which to readjust itself. But unless we use this time wisely - time which is being bought at an increasingly high price - then we fail not only the wool industry and all those people in rural areas largely dependent on it, but also the Australian public. 
Despite some gallant prognostications from leading wool industry spokesmen, the Australian wool industry has shown increasing evidence of further fragmentation since the resumption of auction sales some five or six weeks ago. During this same period a variety of reasons has been advanced as to why events have not borne out these brave predictions. Indeed, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  himself has been' drawn into the ever-widening controversy, with his discussion on the effects on wool auction sale results in Western Australia, by the operations of private treaty wool buyers. Everyone, it seems, from the Minister down to growers' industrial organisations, is more intent on pursuing petty side issues of a parochial nature instead of facing up squarely to the real problem. It has become increasingly clear from the constant bickering, so rife in the industry at all levels, that there exists today an appalling ignorance of the true situation. As the responsible representative of the nation, this Government cannot afford to allow matters simply to take their course. 
There is undoubtedly a number of problems associated with wool marketing which, if grouped together, represent the hard core of the difficulties so urgently requiring attention. It does not take a very thorough analysis of these areas to show clearly that the entire marketing structure of the wool industry is being carved up by gross manipulation at all levels. This is the hard core of the wool industry's difficulties today, and I contend that there is a very real danger that manipulative forces' at work within the industry can and will commit wool to a tragic position in the world's textile trade, if allowed to continue. Honourable members may ask who is ' manipulating the wool industry, and how? I should point out that the manipulation referred to is by no means confined to any one sector. In fact this Government must share a measure of the blame, together with wool-selling brokers, buyers, transport concerns and shipping groups, all of whom are reaping dividends from their own brand of manipulation within the wool industry. These dividends, I might add, are obtained at the direct expense of woolgrowers' returns. 
I believe it is the responsibility of the Government to correct this situation, not compound it. In this regard short term palliatives will provide no substantial security for the woolgrower. It may be argued that the presently proposed system of deficiency payments will at least buy a little more time for growers, but with the typical short-sightedness of a subsidy scheme, the system will not distinguish the efficient from the inefficient wool producer. Furthermore the proposed system will not necessarily provide a return to growers commensurate with the true commercial value of their clip. Without immediate and positive action directed at showing wool users throughout the world that we want to get on with the job of providing a commodity of required standards and at an economic value, the introduction of deficiency payment schemes will be of no real value to anyone, and least of all to growers. There is no doubt that woolgrowers throughout Australia largely appreciate the efforts of the Australian Wool Commission in its reserve price support. But is it not true to say that the Wool Commission is being forced to overplay its hand in safeguarding growers' interests. In league with the proposed deficiency payment scheme the Australian Wool Commission seems certain at this point to achieve only one major objective. This will be to force a false value on to the production of the entire Australian wool clip, with the result that much of the clip will be prohibitive in price to potential buyers. At the same time the provision of deficiency payments on the proposed basis will encourage woolgrowers to continue production regardless of demand ' and regardless of quality and processing costs. 
If the Government has any real desire to see the wool industry stand on. its own feet again it must act with the courage required to bring the production and marketing of the entire Australian wool clip .under, one single controlling authority. Partial attempts at acquiring the clip are already taking place in a most haphazard manner at auction sales each week. The mounting stockpile of wool .resulting from these operations can only react as a price depressant factor if allowed to build up under present operations. We must face up to the true facts which indicate quite clearly that wool may be in for a prolonged slump in usage. Therefore the unnecessary expressions of buoyancy at certain forecast levels are grossly misleading. Again I would reiterate that we simply cannot afford to allow the situation to resolve itself. So we must act in the interests of all who are associated with the wool industry now, before we find there is no industry left worth supporting. 
I believe that it is the earnest desire of the majority of Australian woolgrowers that the Government take immediate steps for the introduction of an acquisition system to embrace the whole clip. Perhaps it would be appropriate at this stage to remind the Minister for Primary Industry of his well publicised speech at a recent Agricultural Show in West Australia, when he stated: 
Other industries too have their problems. The wheat industry reached a point of crisis a little more than 2 years ago when supplies were far in excess of market requirements and storage capacity. 
Are we going to wait around to see whether the wool industry falls into a similar predicament, before heeding the call for a single marketing authority to acquire and market the whole clip? The inevitable effect of a laissez-faire approach will spell complete disaster, not only for the nation's 100,000-odd woolgrowers, but for a large proportion of urban and rural communities as well. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: In view of the failure of the Australian Apple and Pear Board to negotiate acceptable shipping freight rates to the United Kingdom and Europe with the interested consortium of ship-owning companies, and the ability of West Australian growers to make such acceptable arrangements due to the geographical advantages of Western Australia in relation to these markets, why is the Minister refusing permission to West Australian interests to proceed with arrangements for shipping the West Australian crop? As West Australian shippers are most anxious to proceed with the organisation necessary to prepare for export, and because time is now desperately short, will the Minister give this matter his immediate attention with a view to putting an end to . yet another instance of discrimination against Western Australia? 
 While supporting the Bill before the House and commending the Government for bringing this very necessary measure of relief to the wool industry, I want to express some reservations and disappointment with the provisions of the Bill. The opportunity to make this measure an effective instrument of reconstruction has been abandoned, as has been the opportunity it presented effectively to promote the production of better and commercially viable types of wool. That these omissions have occurred obviously in the interests of petty political considerations is to be regretted and detracts considerably from the merit which would otherwise be due to the Government. The decision to make provision for the continued operation of sales by private treaty is a wise and commendable one, but the restrictions placed on the percentage of deficiency payment to these transactions is unnecessarily discriminatory and offensive.. Let me make my position in respect of private treaty selling perfectly clear. I believe implicitly in the need, for the Government to acquire the entire Australian, clip and market it through a single selling authority. This does not necessarily mean any far-reaching departure from existing machinery. In fact, the facilities of the existing wool receival organisations would be needed as much as ever, as also would their trained and competent staff. ' But I believe that a situation,, as at present, where we have every grower competing to sell his wool to a relatively few Jeeply entrenched buyers, is completely indefensible. 
But having said this, let me now affirm that while this situation exists, I insist on the right of the grower to exercise his judgment as to how he will sell his wool in this marketing situation. If he decides, in his own judgment, to sell at the shed door, he must be free to do so. Any attempt, for reasons of political patronage, or indeed for any reason at all, to try to force him to market his wool across a broker's auction floor is completely reprehensible and must be resisted at all costs. If we are to have an open market, I say let it be an open market. If a grower elects to dispose of his clip privately, he reduces the necessity of the Australian Wool Commission's appraisal, the Wool Commission's reserve price support, and possible use of additional Government funds if the Wool Commission buys in the wool. Why then should this grower be differentiated against in the application of the deficiency payment? Another aspect of this proposal which disturbs me greatly is the decision of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to amend completely the list of excluded types. Under the original list declared by the Minister in his statement tabled in this House on 20th August, Western Australian growers and growers in some other States would have been eligible for a considerably greater overall share of deficiency payments due to the absence of heavy vegetable fault in any significant quantity of the State's clip. The complete about-face that has taken place regarding the types to be excluded has completely altered this position. The original list of excluded types undoubtedly was made on a strictly commercial basis and was uninfluenced in any way by political considerations. But we now have on our hands a political decision which, in its desire to spread the list of excluded types evenly over every State, has lost sight entirely of the need to exclude from the benefits of deficiency support, wool which in its natural state has little or no commercial value. At the same time a situation has been created where no merit whatsoever exists in excluding virtually any type of wool. In the interests of simplicity and reducing administrative costs, it may just as well be that we simply pay 36c per lb average on the whole Australian clip. 
In Western Australia, the position has altered from that of approximately 98 per cent eligibility over the entire State clip, to about 90 per cent eligibility. In real terms this represents an annual loss to Western Australia in excess of $250,000 and is clearly another instance where Western Australia has been differentiated against for political considerations. Apart from it being abundantly clear that political considerations have over-ruled rational thought on this matter by the reinclusion of carbonising types in the eligible types for deficiency payment, it is obviously clear that much of the oversupply situation referred to in the Minister's second reading speech is being aggravated by the production and marketing of this type of wool. If we are to allow deficiency payments on poor style and heavily burr infested wool, then why discriminate against the grower who wants to sell this type of wool by private treaty and in the process save the Government and the Commission some costs and, at the same time, himself reap the benefit of this saving? 
If, as we are told, there is a situation of over-supply in the market, now, and I repeat, now, is the time to discourage marketing of not only the 10 per cent of those types laid down in the first schedule of the Bill, but also to discourage production of the 10 per cent of inferior types originally excluded. Only after a combination of all these types are removed has the wool industry a real chance of recovery as a supplier of a commercially acceptable commodity, a commodity worthy and capable of demanding a firm price from the world's textile users. This will be possible only after pruning out from the efforts of wool growers the types of wool that are not commercially viable. The fact that such a large number of growers in New. South Wales and Queensland are affected by the production of inferior burry types of wool should be of sufficient significance to warrant immediate attention to the possibility of evolving a separate system of reconstruction for those growers who are unable to produce any better types of wool. In short, what I am suggesting is that those wools which previously were considered to be of sufficiently low value to be excluded from deficiency payments are still significant enough to warrant the attention by the Government to either work towards the complete elimination of, or immediate reduction of, this production which, at this stage, can only depress the ruling prices for those wools which are commercially acceptable to the trade. 
If rural reconstruction measures are to abide by any criteria, surely this criteria must have regard to the economic value of the commodity being produced as well as the economic viability of the producer concerned. The world's textile processors have in the past shown, and will certainly in the future show, little concern for social and political problems involved with the production of the inferior types of wools in Australia, and neither can we: realistically expect them now to support this type of commodity in the market place. The Minister for Trade and Industry has already indicated the possibility of the need to introduce supply-management techniques for the control of production in the industry. Such a possibility would be most unwelcome and it is to be hoped that it will not become necessary on any large scale. However, the industry has reached a stage, in fact a critical stage, where the Government must face up to the problems and if over-supply is one of them, and too much badly grown wool is another, then it should go straight to these areas and deal with them. 
Obviously there is an urgent need for a revision of the nation's wool-growing areas, based upon not only economic viability but also the quality of the commodity produced in those areas. Areas in Australia can be identified where management techniques have reached their optimum levels and yet it is still not possible to eliminate the production of wool which is so heavily burr infested that it has little commercial value. On the other hand, it is only too true that there are other areas where management techniques could reduce vastly the significance of burr infestation, providing, of course, we make sure that it simply does not pay to ignore this need. The role of the deficiency payment scheme should have regard to the need to promote the production of the type of wool which can claim a fully competitive role in the international textile fibre market. Conversely, what I am suggesting is that the scheme should work side by side with rural reconstruction proposals and supply management techniques to remove from the market place those wools which have little commercial value. 
In the battle for a place in the textile markets of the world, is it not the time for the wool industry to retreat and consolidate itself in the production of a fibre able to compete openly and without unnatural protection? Perhaps at this stage I mould emphasise that I am perfectly well aware that as well as dealing with a Bill to assist the woo] industry, we are dealing also with a matter which does contain a great human element. Perhaps the most significant part of the Minister's second reading speech was where he referred to the fact that it has been estimated that approximately one million persons are wholly or substantially dependent on the wool industry for their living. May I emphasise that we must not allow a situation to develop where the vital interests of almost one million persons are being unduly prejudiced because we lack cither the political courage or initiative, or both, to reconstruct a relatively small percentage of these one million persons - persons or companies who are operating in an area which does not now lead itself to the production of the sort of commodity which we must produce if we are to command a place in the world fibre market. If rural reconstruction has any meaning at all, surely it means that this is an area where reconstruction should operate and it should operate to the overall good of the whole industry as well as those relatively few people who find themselves situated in the area of virtually unsaleable production. 
Perhaps another most significant part of the Minister's second reading speech was where he stated that the aim in excluding the 10 per cent of inferior types was to withdraw support from wools which do not bear the full cost of the disproportionately high sale and handling costs they involve; and that the Government considered it would be undesirable to encourage delivery of such wools by increasing their value through the mechanism of deficiency payments. I could not agree more with this part of the Minister's speech, but I cannot help but feel, and feel very strongly, that this part of his speech must surely have been written in association with the original list of excluded types. The Minister continued and said that it would be seen from the first schedule to the Bill that the excluded wools were primarily locks, crutchings, and similar wools which are common to the whole clip and the incidence should be equitable as between growers. I maintain that it is not possible to produce wool in any area which does not, to some extent, result in the production of locks and crutchings and wools of this type. lt seems now that the object of excluding some wool from the benefit of deficiency payment has changed from one of discouraging the production of wool with a high and uneconomic processing cost to one of identifying a group of oddments common to all growers, so as to create the illusion of a higher average return from Government funds. If this has been the Minister's objective, then he has deceived only himself and, in the process he has seriously detracted from the value of the costly exercise we are now considering. The compilation of the original list of excluded types obviously had as its objective the discouragement of production and marketing of those types carrying little or no commercial value due to high processing costs, and endeavoured to concentrate the incentive for production in those areas of Australia where wool could be produced reasonably free from extraordinary high content of vegetable matter. I am prepared to concede that a case does exist for the exclusion of heavily stained wools and those wools containing a high percentage of foreign matter. But the very least that should be done, so far as this legislation is co'ncerned, is to bring back into the list of excluded types those types originally indicated by the Minister in his paper presented to the House on 20th August, 
In his second reading speech the Minister said that in reference to the present or new list of excluded types, these wools are easily identifiable by growers and are difficult to mix with eligible wools without being readily detected, and that growers who fail to class out these types of wool will be penalised either by having their wool reclassed at their expense, or by the lower price received. If the Minister has added these words as a justification for the alteration in this list of types, then surely to goodness he must think that there is no one in this House who has any knowledge at all of the wool industry. To sug gest that it ls any easier to detect the amended list of excluded types than it would be to detect heavily burr infested woo] which has not been classed out, is surely one of the weakest arguments I have heard yet for the alteration in the list of excluded types. 
I revert again to the Minister's statement of 20th August in which he said that it is quite unrealistic to suggest that the deficiency payment scheme will impede or hinder the rural reconstruction scheme by encouraging people to stay on their properties who have no long term prospects of viability. Let me say in connection with this part of his statement that by the abandonment of the list of excluded types of which this statement forms an integral part, it can now be fairly slated that this reference to rural reconstruction is no longer valid. While the original objective of the price deficiency payment scheme was to introduce a measure of assistance to the wool industry aimed at complementing the rural reconstruction scheme, the Bill presently before us cannot now so effectively perform such a function. 
In the exercise dealing with a problem of the magnitude which has now developed in the wool industry, there can be no place for petty political ' considerations. The proposed enactment of this legislation means that we are establishing a precedent in an industry which has been remarkably free of this form of support. It is, therefore, vitally essential that whatever precedent we establish now should be established against the background of practical commonsense and in the long term interests of the industry in its every aspect. While I am prepared to support the Bill, I want to conclude by again expressing my keen disappointment in the Minister for bowing to what . has obviously been a political instruction. In doing so he has established a dangerous precedent in supporting wool of little commercial value, in detracting from the concept of a price support plan which would make a valuable contribution to the overall quality aspects of the entire clip, and finally, by detracting from the value of the deficiency payment as an effective instrument of rural reconstruction. 

 Mr BUCHANAN (McMillan)' (5.49)- One of the remarkable things about this debate is that all speakers have agreed that they will support the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill. Although everyone has his own slant on the future of the wool industry, it is generally agreed that this measure is purely a palliative. If honourable members cast their minds back a few years to the time when we were debating a floor price plan - it will be recalled that there was some trouble about a referendum - there were acriminious debates about who was right and who was wrong, about what should be done and what should not be done. At the time, many people came forward with the suggestion that we should have full acquisition of the clip. I was one of them. I still believe that this is .the way in which we should be aiming now. I think that the main reason why this has not been introduced is simply because those in the industry itself, with all the various organisations that claim to be speaking for the growers, have not been able to . sit down around a table and talk sense in trying to resolve what has obviously been a growing problem for many years. It is only because the position is now so bad that those in the industry simply had to come up with some sort of agreement. 
As 1 said, we all agree that this is only a palliative. There is no need to go into the details of the Bill. I do not think many speakers today have done so. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  has not gone into the details of the plan as laid down in the Bill, but he has done a great deal to elucidate these political differences between the types of growers and the different thinking that they bring to finding a solution for a problem that has confronted us for a long time. 
For years now people have been telling us that wool is on the way out. The fact that the actual percentage of the total fibre market that is filled by wool happens to be shrinking does not indicate that wool is not a very much appreciated fibre and that it is not very much wanted by the people who appreciate quality, or that it is anything like being on the way out. Actual production is up. It is not a reflection of world demand for wool. With approximately a 30 per cent increase in production, the individual grower is receiving for his wool only the same return as that which he received previously. It is a reflection on the ability of the people who control the industry to manage the affairs of the industry. I am amazed that we have been able to stagger on for so long with an auction system which obviously cannot give the grower the optimum results over a period. There would be days on which a particular grower would receive more for his wool than he received last year and when other growers would receive less. The wool grower is entirely dependent on the fluke of who decided to go into the market at a particular time. The wool grower is dependent on the fact that many wools grown in one area may all go on to the market on the same day and none of them receive a good price. The small grower, who has been obliged to put his wool on the market as soon as he got it off the sheep's back, in order to get himself out of the clutches of his banker, has to take the price that he can get. The big grower is able to say: 'I will take so much for it or I will take it back. And he takes it back. I cannot think of any other sensible industry in which this auction system is used, although I am always told that this auction method is still used in the stock market, in the selling of beef, lamb and so on. But even in that industry, there are the same weaknesses. Why they have stuck to this method for so long I cannot understand. Equally, I cannot understand how we can possibly have an auction system in which the Australian Government - and remember that it is Australian wool and it is the Australian Government supposedly trying to look after the grower - is coming in and buying on behalf of the grower his own product. I sincerely hope that much more thought will be put into what is to be done for the future of this industry by the time we have to come up with a new proposal, before the end of June next year. This proposal that we have before us today is purely and simply to see us through these few months. People have been talking in terms of 12 months, but this is not so. We have only until June of next year arid for the next wool selling season we must have something much better. 
Sitting suspended from 5.55 to 8 p.m. 
My question is to the Acting Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry and refers to statements by him that United Kingdom entry into the European Common Market means a drastic revision of the preferential rate of tariff applied to British goods entering Australia. I ask: In the interests of damping down inflationary pressure in the economy and as a measure of relief to the hard-pressed export industries, particularly primary industry, will he explain why the revision of the British preferential rate cannot take the form of applying this rate to all imports? Why is it that it must necessarily mean further increasing the price of British goods in Australia and almost certainly increasing the price of goods from other countries once these commodities are not compelled to meet the competition of the presently less costly imports from the United Kingdom? Finally, does the Minister recognise that talking about the drastic effects of the United Kingdom decision is not of any material assistance to exporting industries; that what they need is relief from the merciless cost pressures they are endeavouring to absorb? 
My question, which is addressed to the Prime Minister, concerns a matter common to a number of queries raised by constituents who write to me expressing concern at Government tariff policy. I ask: As trade union success in obtaining wage increases outside the arbitration system is most pronounced in those  areas where employers bask in considerable tariff protection, would the Prime Minister give consideration to the introduction of a system of automatic tariff reductions for the products of those manufacturers who do not resist arbitral pressure for wags increases? Will he consider also whether such a system would give pause to union leaders in that it would threaten security of employment in those areas of activity endeavouring to take advantage of our outdated tariff structure? Could this not be a major instrument of control over inflationary pressure now rampant in the Australian economy? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
That the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
That the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not preventthe use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riot control' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
That Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Recent reports indicate that the number of unemployed and job vacancies are in balance  in  capital cities whereas there are more than 3 unemployed to each vacancy in country districts. Does this not indicate that demand needs stimulating in the country but not in cities? Would not any stimulus to employment in the country be sufficient to mop up any emerging labour surplus in cities? Should not any stimulus applied prior to the next Budget aim at country areas in the first instance lest labour demand is overstimulated in cities with inevitable inflationary consequences? Would the following measures be appropriate: Long-term low interest loans to encourage wool growers to turn to beef with a 150 per cent tax depreciation on the necessary property improvements; a moratorium on local government rates in country areas with the Commonwealth footing the bill; urgent allocations for repairs and up-grading of major country roads to immediately absorb many unemployed; and, finally, the removal of excise on wine. 
I direct a question to the Postmaster-General. It refers to his statement of 9th December last with reference to progress with the seventh stage of television development and his most recent statement concerning the introduction of colour television. Can he give a firm assurance that bis announced intention to introduce colour television will in no way prejudice the scheduled completion date of stage 7, with particular reference to the target dates of March 1974 for Moora and Carnamah and May 1974 for Mingenew and Three Springs? 
It is not my purpose to delay this legislation. It is a very necessary piece of legislation and one which I think we can confidently forecast will be necessary for some years to come. However there are 4 points that have been raised during the course of this debate on which I feel some comment should be made before we finally leave the subject altogether. These 4 points are the size of the Australian delivery quota, the application or the introduction of a means test into the quota system, the interest rate, and finally the vexed question of wheat quality. It is a matter of some surprise to me to find that during the debate on this Bill it should have been suggested that the Australian quota should be higher than what it is. 
The simple truth of the matter is that it is the size of the Australian quota at this point of time, and in the context of the present opportunities for marketing Australian wheat, which renders necessary this Bill. Quite obviously, the higher you raise the quota on which the Government undertakes to pay a first advance of $1.10 a bushel the greater is the amount of money which the Australian Wheat Board has to borrow from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank of Australia and the greater is the deficiency at the end of the term pf that loan. Conversely, if the Australian quota were reduced to approximately one-half or considerably less than its present volume we would not need this sort of legislation at all. So I think it is quite irrational in the course of debate on this Bill to try to advance the proposition that the Australian wheat delivery quota should be higher than it is. 
Reference has been made to the desirability of introducing a means test into the quota system. In some States a form of means test is already applied. In  some  States the quota is allocated amongst the individual growers in accordance with a delivery formula arrived at from the history of deliveries by particular properties over a period of years. This allocation becomes the properties' base quota, and any variation of the original national quota of 357 million bushels is arrived at by taking a percentage cut on the base quotas. In one instance the State does not apply a percentage cut below 10,000 bushels and in another instance below 12,000 bushels. I have no complaint whatsoever about the application of this principle. I believe that it is very necessary and is completely justified in the context of the present economic climate in the wheat industry. 
I think that it is quite irrational to say that a farming property with a delivery his tory of only 12,000 bushels should be subject to the same cut straight across the board as is applied to a big company property with a delivery quota of between 500,000 and one million bushels. To me this is quite illogical and quite unfair. I make this point because reference has been made to a means test and it has been suggested that no means test is being applied. In another quarter it has been suggested that a means test should never be applied. The simple truth of the matter is that in some instances it is already being applied, and rightly so. 
Reference has also been made to the interest rate of  5i  per cent. A  speaker  on my right recently referred to the great volume of wheat which the Australian Wheat Board had sold during the year. If the Australian Wheat Board had actually sold and received payment for this record quantity of wheat, we would not be dealing with this legislation tonight. The Board, in its efforts to dispose of the quantity of wheat placed in its hand under the quota system, has had to resort to all sorts of various devices to get the stocks of wheat out of the storages to make room for the incoming crop. This year the Board would be expected to have stocks of the order of 500 million bushels to dispose of if it were to empty the storages altogether which, of course, it will not do. But in its effort to achieve this sales performance the Board has had to resort to some rather doubtful commercial transactions. It has sold wheat to various countries on very extended and in some aspects rather questionable credit terms. This has enabled the Board to achieve the sales performance which it has achieved. But the Board has not received payment for a vast quantity of this wheat. 
The wheat has been sold in many instances on what might be described as Kathleen Mavourneen terms, and quite a sizeable amount of money is outstanding in the form of payments for this wheat. Normally payment would have been received for this wheat; the Board would have been able to liquidate the debt with the Reserve Bank had it been able to sell this wheat for cash and not on credit terms. By the same token it should be understood that although this wheat has been sold on credit it is nevertheless attracting an interest rate. ] do not know what the interest rate is. The Board has not disclosed it, and I do not think that the Board should be asked to disclose it because it is not the sort of commercial practice that one adopts when one is dealing with customers in the way in which the Board is engaged. It is reasonable to assume that the interest rate of 5i per cent which the Board will pay for the accommodation provided in this Bill is offset by the interest which it is receiving from the credit transactions it has made in respect of the wheat it has sold. So I think we can forget all about the criticism that has been levelled about the interest rate. Knowing this as I do. I believe that it would be quite wrong to allow this debate to be concluded without laying this particular ghost to rest. 
I want to make one other point very briefly. I apologise again for delaying the House at this late hour; it is something of which I do not approve. Reference was made to the quality in wheat. This is a subject on which I have never heard more nonsense talked. Quality in wheat means different things to different people. Quality in wheat to be used for one purpose is not desired in that wheat if it is to be used for another purpose. I believe that we in Australia have to produce good wheat, no matter whether it is hard wheat or soft wheat. Let &lt;t be of good colour. Let it be a well filled, round grain wheat of good colour, with a high flour yield, a low moisture content and free from any admixture of foreign seeds. I believe that Australian grain of that type will always command its position on any market within Australia or overseas. I support the legislation and again apologise for delaying the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education and Science. Can he give any assurance that the proposed school of veterinary science will be proceeded with as part of the new Murdoch 
University in Western Australia and in accordance with the plans of the previous State Government? 
 1  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in, both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled Will take imediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department,  to  assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and  to  what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry state those quantities of wool reoffered for sale at auction from the Australian Wool Commission's stockpile on a weekly basis since the resumption of sales this year? Can the Minister also state those quantities of price averaging plan wool offered at auction during the same period? Is the total of these respective categories, either separately or combined, included in the weekly assessment of the national average price per kilogramme for all wool sold at auction? If they are included, can he state whether these wools represent an above average standard as compared with the wools being offered by growers in those same sales? Finally, if they do, to what extent are they prejudicing the entitlement of growers to payments under the wool deficiency payments scheme? 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Is it a fact that the introduction of the wheat quota delivery plan necessitated the removal from the State wheat marketing legislation of those clauses which required that a grower may and shall deliver all his marketable wheat to the Australian Wheat Board? Is it the removal of those clauses which has now weakened the authority of the Board to police interstate trade in wheat? Is this interstate trade taking place at prices as low as 70c a bushel delivered and making possible a trade in prepared stock and poultry feed at a price with which legitimate processors cannot compete? Will the Minister give consideration to negotiating with the States for the restoration of the original clauses in the interests of restoring the authority of the Board to control this undesirable activity? 
Has the Minister for Trade and Industry seen an announcement that General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd will close its assembly plant at Mosman Park in Western Australia in August, with the loss of employment to some 230 Western Australians? Does the Minister appreciate that this will almost certainly be followed by a similar action by the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd? As this will mean that Western Australia will lose the minimal benefits it was receiving from the very high rate of tariff protection given to the motor industry, will the Minister compensate Western Australia by devising a method whereby Western Australians can import motor vehicles duty free? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to the first advance payment on wheat. I ask: Is the Minister aware that the present first advance of 110c a bushel was fixed in 1957 and that since that time dramatic Increases in wages and salaries and improved working conditions, in association with excessive tariff protection to secondary industry, have drastically eroded the purchasing power of this 110c? Will the Minister make early representations to have the first advance payment increased to at least 125c a bushel in order to restore economic viability to the industry pending payments to growers accruing from the vast quantities of wheat being shipped against extended credit sales contracts? 
Following his Budget address last week the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  came out with a remarkable statement. He said that the Australian dollar should be revalued upwards. What he is doing, in effect, is putting Australian export industries - primary industry, secondary industry and mining - on notice that their financial returns would be less if the Labor Party were to win the next election. That the alternative Prime Minister of this country should make such a statement a few months before an election shows a complete lack of responsibility towards the economic wellbeing of Australia and its export industries. In the same statement he also said that Australian tariffs should be cut. Implicit in that statement is the obvious fact that the Australian Labor Party, if it should become the government, would take away the independence of the Tariff Board, and it would be a Labor government that would be making judgments on levels of tariff protection in Australia. 
This Budget bears many similarities to the Budget brought down in August 1969. It is fitting, therefore, that I should build oh some of the propositions that I put forward on that occasion. The present Budget sheds a clear if indirect light on several fundamental flaws in the system of democracy in Australia. I will return to this connection between the 1972 and 1969 Budgets in a moment. To govern is to engage in a chain of events wherein what happens today is very much influenced by what happened yesterday. Yesterday's major event was the 1971 Budget. In speaking to it I said: 
I believe that this Budget will put a brake on inflation, but I also believe that it will be electorally dangerous to hold the damper on the economy till the end of the financial year. 
Later in the same speech I said: 
There must be and there will be a boost before next August ... In one of the supplementary statements the Treasurer tells us all about the long delays before new tax measures start to make their presence felt. If it works one way it must also work the other way. 
I take as my starting point these 2 propositions which I made 12 months ago. The first is that the economy would be stimulated before the 1972 Budget. The record is that economic measures take time to make their presence felt. 
Let me recapitulate. On 26th October 1971 the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced - No. 1 - an immigration cutback of 3,000 to be effective at Christmas time; No. 2 - trading banks to put an extra $5m per week into circulation and - No. 3 - falls in interest rates on some Commonwealth securities. On 1 1 th November 1971 the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  announced - No. 4 - substantial interest reductions on other Commonwealth securities; on 18th November 1971 the Treasurer announced - No. 5 - substantial interest reductions in semi-government securities. In late November-early December, unannounced, were the next measures - No. 6 - an instruction to Commonwealth departments to increase spending and - No. 7 - an instruction to Commonwealth departments to step up recruitment. On 19th November 1971 the Treasurer announced - No. 8 - $30m as agreed for a continuation of the reserve price scheme for wool. On 2nd December 1971 the Prime Minister announced - No. 9 - the non-metropolitan unemployment relief scheme to cost $2m per month; on 9th December 1971 the Prime Minister announced - No. 10 - an increase in grants to non-government schools of $15 per annum in the case of primary students and $18 per annum in the case of secondary students; and - No. 11- $20m for State school capital works. 
On 12th December 1971 the Prime Minister announced - No. 12 - an extra $250,000 per month for non-metropolitan employment. On 13 th December 1971 the Reserve Bank announced - No. 13 - a reduction in reserve requirements permitting trading banks to increase lending by $132m. On 22nd December 1971 the Prime Minister announced - No. 14 - an overall devaluation of the Australian dollar by 1.75 per cent. On 6th January 1972 the Treasury announced - No. 15 - a further cut in interest on Commonwealth securities; on 3rd February 1972 the Reserve Bank announced - No. 16 - a reduction in interest rates charged by trading banks. On the same day the Treasurer announced - No. 17 - a lower interest rate on some Commonwealth securities. On 8th February 19 2 the Prime Minister announced - No. 18 - a 20 per cent increase in wheat quotas. 
On 14th February 1972 the Prime Minister announced - No. 19 - a further $32m for State works and housing programmes; No. 20 - a further $10m for semi-governmental works programmes; No. 21 - a special grant of S15m to the States; No. 22 - a special loan of $ 17.5m to New South Wales; No. 23- a further $2.25m per month to be spent on the nonmetropolitan unemployment relief scheme. increasing the amount to $4.5m per month; No. 24 - restoration of the investment allowance; and No. 25 - an increase of 70 per cent in the unemployment benefit. On 5th April 1972 the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  announced - No. 26 - additional and accelerated expenditure on rural reconstruction, together with a relaxation of conditions. On 11th April 1972 the Treasurer announced the mini-Budget, which included in its provisions - No. 27 - a 2i per cent cut in income tax; No. 28 - an increase in basic rates of pensions and sickness benefits; and No. 29 - an alteration in the means test. 
So, between 26th October 1971 and 11th April 1972 the Government engaged in no fewer than 29 separate stimulative acts. This brings me to the second and more important proposition that I made earlier and now repeat, namely, that economic measures take time to make their presence felt. I believe that the 29 acts of stimulation which preceded this Budget would, given the fullness of time, have reduced the level of unemployment in Australia. The reduction would have been from a level low by international standards to the still lower level acceptable by Australian standards. My belief is based on the fact that I can read Government documents. The Budget Speech and the statements supplementary to it make it abundantly clear that what I am saying is regarded by the Treasury as self-evident. Not only does the Treasury make this point overtly but also it displays remarkable reluctance in discussing the economics of the Budget. I invite everyone to compare the Treasurer's speech and supplementary statements of last year with those of this year. The Treasury's 1972 reticence can be ascribed to an unwillingness to enlarge upon, in rigorous exposition, that which it has overtly but briefly admitted. The admission is tersely put in the Budget Speech in these terms: 
To summarise: the economy at present is moving in the right direction. A modest abatement of inflationary trends has been achieved. Demand, although patchy, is growing. Confidence generally has improved in recent months. There is, however, some slack in the economy and in the absence of further action it would be some time before it was fully taken up. 
That last sentence in the 1972 Budget Speech is absolutely critical and I repeat it: 
There is, however, some slack in the economy and in the absence of further action it would be some time before it was fully taken up. 
What is said, of course, is that the preBudget stimuli would have proved sufficient in time, if this is so, the present Budget cannot be allowed to run its full course. Twenty-nine mini stimuli plus one maxi stimulus is clearly too much stimulation, eventually. But this is a Budget befitting the age of instant coffee and instant mashed potato. Presto, it will achieve instant full employment. 
When a Government document looks at a future which is uncertain it says so. If, however, it looks at a future which is fairly certain, it says so a good deal more insistently. That is the position with the 1972 Budget documents. There is much more emphasis on policy reviews during the financial year and there is even a strong cautionary paragraph on the second page of Statement No. 2 which, incidentally, with remarkable foresight, extols the virtues of 'flexibility in economic policy'. All this adds up to the fact that, once this instant Budget does its job and full employment is restored, measures will be introduced to prevent it from adding to inflation. The reappearance of the stop-go policies is harmful to orderly economic development, yet its causes lie at the very heart of parliamentary democracy in Australia. Two related matters stand out here. The first concerns the difficulties of democratic governments in dealing with large scale lawlessness organised by tightly knit subversive minorities. The second relates to the frequency with which governments have to go to the people. The first problem is not confined to Australia; the second problem which is an aggravating one, is. 
A democratic government is obliged, and rightly so, to abide by rules and regulations. This puts it at a distinct disadvantage when dealing with organised opponents who scoff at democracy and shrug off both laws and decency. The 'Economist' of 29th April 1972 described the universal problem as follows: 
The reason for the dedin; of British trade unionism has not been any original sin among either ordinary or leading British trade unionists. It has come about because even a band of archangels and geniuses could not properly operate a supposedly democratic organisation if it is not subject to the checks and balances on which any effective democratic system must depend. In the lower ranks of 'elected' union officialdom (delegales to union conferences, shop stewards etc.) there is not a natural democratic check, because most people very sensibly do not want to spend their spare time on such chores. Anybody  sufficiently  ambitious to pick up local union power can therefore generally gel it. Politically, this leads to a heavy over-representation in shop stewards' committees of communists . .  there is an over-representation of those who are willing to break their promises and their contracts without a moment's compunction, who resort to threats, force, bullying  tacics  and some individual intimidation in order to bolster protection rackets that are mainly in protection of their own power but are sometimes more corrupt even than that 
So much for the 'Economist', lt is the Australian counterparts of these people who break the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and provoke large scale confrontations between unions - which are composed, incidentally, in large part of decent men - and the Government, which naturally is hesitant as it knows that only a minority is guilty. It is the communists and fellow travellers who engineer the clashes within the arbitration system which result in the shameful backdowns by arbitration authorities. 1 refer to the well intentioned but utterly misguided fuzzing over of major issues by  Mr Justice  Moore in his precipitous ambition to settle a symptom. The Government has not yet learned to cope with industrial blackmail, and this is a major cause of inflationary propensity in Australia today. Yet there are several solutions to this problem. I will outline those that 1 know on some ether occasion. Suffice to say now that the necessary changes are fundamental and would take more than 3 years to implement; and 3 years is the maximum term that Australian governments have in office. 
Let me make it clear that what is happening within the unions is an affront to all democratic parties, including the Australian Labor Party. Indeed, if elected to government, the Australian Labor Party would find the issue very divisive on account of its anti-democratic lunatic left which, mercifully, is only a small minority. On the other hand, I recall that the last Prime Minister to introduce emergency legislation with the sole and specific purpose of gaoling a small group of trade union officials was the late Ben Chifley. 
Let me quote from an article on the front page of the 'Australian' of Tuesday, 22nd August 1972: 
I appealed to one of the rank-and-file group's leaders,  Mr Frank  Ball, a member of the Communist Party of Australia to calm the men ... it could have led to a full scale brawl.  Mr Ball  . . . replied 'You can cop il the way il comes mate'. 
The  speaker  is a prominent member of the Australian Labor Party; he is the assistant secretary of the New South Wales Labor Council. He was attacked and kicked by the lunatic Left. Despite the fact that the people behind the strikes are out to destroy or subvert the democratic majority within the ALP as much as they are out to confront arbitration and the Government, such is the influence on the Australian Labor Party of the lunatic Left - the Hartleys, the Browns, the Crawfords - 'that the Labor Party is forced to side with them in public. This is a disaster for democracy; it is also disastrously inflationary. 
Just as it is very difficult for a government to reform a system of trade unionism within a 3 year term of office, so it is difficult to embark on many valuable projects, especially those that are unpopular in the short term. To remain in government a party or coalition must, by definition, be popular at least once every 3 years, but in practice more often than that. For example, there are Federal elections both this year and next year. So, on one side there are measures which are responsible but unpopular and on the other side there are frequent popularity contests. No wonder there is in this country a preponderance of ad hocery in Government policy. No wonder the public servants get the upper hand over Ministers who must, because the system forces them to do so, keep a sharp eye on popularity. This is basically undemocratic and disastrous for the country and 1 shall enlarge upon this in the debates on the Estimates. 
To give democracy a chance, serious thought must be given to constitutional reform permitting governments to hold office for more than 3 years. 1 am not able to say what the best term of office would be. This is a matter for careful assessment by experts from various backgrounds. Someone - preferably the Government and Opposition acting jointly - should commission an evaluation of this matter. After all, sound government is something which we all believe in. or at least profess to believe in. I hasten to point out that lengthening the term of office is but one of a considerable number of measures needed to make democracy work. In my speech on the Budget of 21st August 1969 I outlined other changes. My burden on that occasion was principally to examine the proposition that 'our democracy is not getting the most out of the skilled manpower that sits on the back benches of the 2 chambers'. 1 advocated that back bench members be activated and given opportunities to acquire specialised knowledge in selected areas of government so that a better control could be exercised over public servants, so that future Ministers could be trained and furbished with administrative skills and so that the morale of back bench members could be maintained at the highest levels. 
Since that speech in 1969, to my pleasant surprise, worthwhile moves have occurred in the right directions. The committee system which 1 strongly commended has grown enormously in influence, notably in the Senate. Even more gratifying was the appointment of trainee Ministers - something quite close to what 1 was advocating in 1969. 1 do nol review my 1969 remarks with the purpose of claiming credit; it would be improper to imply that my remarks and subsequent events were connected. But I want to register the fact that we are moving forward, not backward, so far as democracy in Australia is concerned. However, there is a long way still to go. For example there has been an incredible expansion in the Public Service. Money, which could and should stay with the taxpayers or go to the poor, the pensioners, the sick and the education of our children, is being wastefully sucked into the bottomless pit of the Public Service. Since I last spoke on this subject in 1969, the Commonwealth Budget has risen from $7,000m to $ 10,000m or by about 41 per cent. In the same period the cost of running departments has risen by 50 per cent. I support this Budget and oppose the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition but in doing so I register a plea that what I have said in support of the Budget be heeded by both the Government and the Opposition. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the controversy now taking place at Boyanup in Western Australia, where live weight sales of cattle were introduced some time ago and where butchers recently have refused to buy female cattle over the age of 12 months and now are insisting on their right to buy these female cattle by appraisal? Will the Minister have this situation investigated with a view to determining whether the export inspection services within his Department or the Trade Practics Tribunal could take action with respect to this matter? 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry seen statements by the General Manager of the Australian Wheat Board and by the economic adviser to the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation advocating a reduction in the official price of stockfeed wheat to 125c and 120c respectively? As a reduction in the price - 
My question which is directed to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for Primary Industry is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Riverina. Does the reported sale of United States wheat to the People's Republic of China mean that there is now full diplomatic recognition between these 2 countries, or does it simply highlight the absurdity of claims that wheat contracts flow only as a result of diplomatic recognition? In view of seasonal conditions in Australia and the reported commitment of 70 million bushels of export wheat from the next harvest, what quantity of wheat could Australia now offer to other than traditional markets? 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Did the New South Wales Government decide last week that all wheat harvested in New South Wales this year, regardless of the quota delivery plan, could be delivered to the Wheat Board licensed receivers and would attract a first advance payment of 110c a bushel? If so, is it intended to extend that principle to all States, regardless of quota delivery decisions in the States? If the Commonwealth does not intend to extend the principle to all States, does that failure constitute a clear violation of the Constitution in that it is a blatant discrimination between States in the distribution of Commonwealth controlled funds? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Am I correct in my understanding that quota deliveries to the Australian Wheat Board set for the 1972-73 harvest have been suspended and that a first advance payment will now be made on all wheat available for delivery to the Board's licensed receivers in all States? If this is so, will a first advance payment of 110c a bushel also be paid on the over-quota deliveries from the previous harvest which have already been not only sold but also shipped? 
My question which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry refers to the announcement by the Minister that the national wheat delivery quota this year is to be 514 million bushels plus an additional contingency quota of 20 million bushels in association with a first advance of 110c a bushel plus an incentive payment of an additional 10c a bushel. I ask: How are these additional 20 million bushels to bc allocated amongst the States and amongst the growers within a State? What information has been given to growers presently planning their production programs as to how much of these additional 20 million bushels they will be entitled to in the event of their planting an above normal acreage and achieving an above average yield? Does this additional quota  make provision for the delivery to the licensed receivers of non-quota wheat as well as overquota wheat as a deterrent to trading outside the Australian Wheat Board? Are the new quota concept and first advance payments a thinly disguised sop to the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, designed to disguise the fact that the Government has in effect abandoned quotas for this year, but at the same time protecting the Treasury from an open ended first advance commitment? 
As the Postmaster-General has had the opportunity to gain first-hand knowledge of the inconvenience and frustration caused by the unnecessary issue of multiple telephone directories in Western Australia, is he in a position to announce a return to the former single directory which not only met with the universal approval of subscribers but also simplified and expedited the booking of trunk line calls? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the refusal of the Australian Wheat Board to permit cattle lot-feeders, chicken meat producers and pig breeders to procure wheat growing properties and grow their own stock feed wheat requirements? Is the Minister aware that this dog in the manger attitude being adopted by the Board is a complete reversal of the policy adopted last year and can only aggravate the current meat situation? As the stock feeders are asking for neither first advance payments of 120 cents a bushel nor the allocation of a delivery quota at the expense of traditional growers, will the Minister, in the interests of fostering the only effective long term solution to the current meat crisis, endeavour to persuade the Australian Wheat Board to adopt a more realistic attitude and revert to its 1972 policy? Finally, will the Minister treat an examination of this situation as urgent, as time is running out for these wheat and meat producers if they are to make an effective contribution to wheat and meat supplies this year? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to a report attributing to the Minister for Primary Industry a statement that the present wheat stabilisation scheme will be extended for another year. The report also indicated that while the guaranteed price would rise by 3c to 160c per bushel the domestic price would remain at 170c per bushel. Is the Minister aware that the present price is 184.06c per bushel, and will he clarify whether this indicates an intention of the Government to reduce drastically the home consumption price? 
I too reject the Budget and support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  which states: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House expresses disapproval of the Budget because it is economically irresponsible . . . 
On 28 March 1973 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wrote a letter to  Dr Coombs  and out of this letter the Coombs task force was born. It- reported on 24 June 1973 and the report was officially made public on Budget night. Unofficially its contents were known earlier due to the deplorable practice of leakages which appear to persist irrespective of who happens to be in power. What this task force did in detail I hope to return to on some future occasion. For the time being 1 shall confine myself to just one point. The point is how this body viewed the state of the economy at the time of writing its report, that is, some time prior to 24 June, and what assessment it conveyed to the Prime Minister. I quote from the report: 
There are limits to the possible supply of goods and services and we are close to them. Indeed, awareness of these limits led to the Cabinet establishing this task force. It would seem therefore that a prime objective of economic management in coming months should be to prevent the demand for goods and services rising to levels which will intensify the growing shortages of labour and bring about inflationary rises in costs and prices. In these circumstances, the scope for a Budget which would stimulate total spending is severely limited. 
Note  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if you will, that even prior to 24 June 1973  -  even before the calamitous 13.2 per cent inflation rate of the June quarter was known - a body of some standing was advising the Prime Minister that the control of excess demand for goods and services was 'a prime objective of economic management in coming months'. It appeared that the Prime Minister took some heed of this advice, as within 3 days of receiving the Coombs task force report he took action. 
I move now from 24 June to 27 June. On 27 June 1973 the Prime Minister appointed a secret committee to report on possible ways of increasing imports.  His  letter of that date - marked 'Personal and Secret' - to  Mr Rattigan,  the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board, said, in part: 

 Dr Cairns and I have been discussing the possibility of stimulating an increase in the flow of imports as a means of expanding the resources available in the Australian economy and of providing some restraint on the upward movement of prices. We feel that, at a time when our domestic resources are coming under increasing pressure, it is only through imports that a substantial addition to the flow of goods available can be achieved. 
I should like you to note 2 matters,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  One matter is the date of the letter. The other matter is that even then the Prime Minister accepted as a fact the existence of inflation and that this inflation was due at least in part to an excessive demand for goods and services in Australia. 
Now I move from 27 June to 15 July. The secret committee reported to the Prime Minister. It agreed with .the Prime Minister's assessment and in fact filled the picture in a little. The report stated: 
The pressures on labour and industrial capacity are part of the explanation for the increase in prices at both wholesale and consumer levels. But in addition to inflationary price increases, there are also reports, from retailers, of increasing delivery delays for new cars, refrigerators and similar appliances, oil heaters, plastic household goods, home and office furniture, carpets, sheets, furnishing fabrics, nightwear, underwear and the more expensive types of knitwear. 
Now I move a further 3 weeks, from 15 July 1973 to the first week in August. On or about 3 August the Commonwealth Treasury released its White Paper entitled The Australian Economy 1973'. The paper said the following about prices: 
At the present time, prices and costs generally are rising faster than at any. time since the Korean War boom. 
The paper did not mince words about the state of demand. It stated: 
Increasing demand pressures have been showing up in the labour market statistics for some months past, both of the numbers unemployed and the number of unfilled vacancies, but particularly the latter. In the skilled and semi-skilled categories and in the metropolitan areas as a whole there are now overall more jobs available than people seeking work. 
In sum, major sectors of the economy are well on the way to buoyant and, in some important cases, over-stretched conditions. 
I now move another 17 days, from about 3 August to 20 August - the Monday preceding Black Tuesday. On that day  Sir John  Phillips signed the annual report of the Reserve Bank Board of which he is  Chairman.  This report focused the spotlight on the forthcoming Budget. There was no ambiguity in the words used. The report stated: 
Looking forward, some large increases in prices are in the pipeline. In the slightly longer run, the measures taken over the last seven months or so and the functioning - shortly to begin - of the Prices Justification Tribunal will exert restraint but it is far from certain that there will be a quick return to acceptable growth rates for prices. The Budget will, of course, be an important influence on the extent to which aggregate demand adds to pressures on prices in the period ahead. 
This Labor Government, within a short space of 24 hours, demonstrated just how important an influence on aggregate demand the Budget was to be. I move now to Black Tuesday, 21 August 1973 - the day which will long be remembered as marking Australia's entry into the international big league of inflation; the day we joined Chile,- Paraguay, Uruguay, Nicaragua, Honduras, Costa Rica and Guatemala, to mention a few other distinguished members of this league. The Prime Minister's visit to Mexico earlier this year had proved strangely and unforeseeably prophetic. 
Well, what did this Budget do to the total demand for goods and services in Australia? The effect of the Budget on demand is primarily through the domestic balance of the Budget. In pretty general terms, if the Budget is a rough matching of domestic revenue and expenditure, then its net effect on domestic demand is more or less neutral. If the Budget results in a domestic surplus, then in broad terms the Budget is deflationary. But, on the other hand, if the Budget results in a net domestic deficit, it is a stimulatory or inflationary Budget. This Budget resulted in an estimated domestic deficit of $162m. In comparison, the deficit in the 1972 Budget was $21 5m. So, one would conclude that this Budget is only three-quarters as inflationary as the Budget of 1972. This is a remarkable conclusion. Of course, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  is quite right when he says that the Budget is 'designed to be much less stimulatory than its predecessor.' 
What is totally incredible is that this Budget should be an inflationary Budget at all. Give a starving sheep 5 lb of wheat a day and it will survive. But, give a sheep which already is eating 20 lb of wheat a day another 5 lb and you will surely kill it. Last year we had unemployment of 2 per cent, quite a bit more than full employment would warrant. This year we have full employment. Last year in the June quarter the inflation rate was only 3.6 per cent in terms of its annual equivalent. This year in the June quarter the inflation rate was 13.2 per cent. A stimulatory Budget last year was perhaps appropriate. A stimulatory Budget this year is the height of irresponsibility. 
The Treasurer says about this Budget that it: 
. is not simply an economic document. It is also an important instrument whereby we give effect to our goals and aspirations. 
In terms of plain everyday English this means: 'To he'l with inflation - we will honour our election promises whatever the cost to the nation'. I represent a State to which exports matter more than tq any other State in the Commonwealth. The exports per head of population from Western Australia are the highest in the Commonwealth. I represent an electorate and a party whose very lifeblood is exporting. Australia is justly proud that it has the world's most efficient wool industry, the world's most efficient wheat industry and the world's most efficient meat industry. For how much longer,  Sir I  ask you? For how much longer can we afford a government which upvalues the Australian dollar twice within 12 months? For how much longer can we afford a government which deliberately fosters inflation, if this is the price it has to pay for a set of election promises, some of which at least are a little dubious? 
The primary producer does not expert sympathy from this Government. He is realist enough to know that he will not get it. 'The Economist' of London in its issue of 25 August 1972 put it quite succinctly with its headline stating 'Gough saves his help for his friends'. The article says that even blind Freddie would readily see that 'this Budget will shift resources from the farms to the cities, and hence to  Mr Whitlam's  supporters'. 
There is nothing more devastating, there is nothing more dangerous to exporting industries than a high rate of inflation. Exporting industries cannot pass inflation on; they must absorb it in their incomes. The easiest thing in these circumstances, the easiest tactic, however dastardly, is to reallocate income from country areas to city areas, that is to allow a high rate of inflation to go on unchecked. And the reason is really very simple. It lies in the fact that trade unions ensure that wages and salaries keep pace with inflation. Their recipients, be they members of communistdominated unions or be they the fat cats of the Public Service are sheltered from the vagaries of inflation; their real incomes are likely to rise, and will rise, at the expense of that part of the economy whose members are exposed to the cold winds of international competition. 
The Prime Minister has helped his friends well, indeed even too well for his own liking. The problem with resorting to devious tactics is that if you carry them to extremes you may risk being regarded by even your friends as irresponsible. Australias are fair-minded people, and if the inflation rate rises too high the skulduggery of this Government will be visible and will offend even some of its own supporters. 
With this stimulatory Budget heaped on top of an incredibly high inflation rate of 13.2 per cent, there is no doubt that inflation will rise to heights not considered possible in this country before December 1972. The prospects are such that this Government will have to do something in order to put a brake on that engine which it has itself put into top gear. Unfortunately, the Government with its still unfulfilled backlog of electoral promises has set itself parameters which are fast merging into a lamina. Like the laminated windscreen, there is precious little room to manoeuvre between the 2 panes of glass. No doubt the Government will try monetary policy. It will have a bash at the good old credit squeeze and it may discourage specific forms of lending by a whole variety of devices, some very crude in concept. No doubt, too, the Government will try to encourage imports. But to quote the secret committee on tariffs which, it will be recalled, recommended the 25 per cent tariff cut, 'there are limits to the extent to which imports can be substituted for domestic supply'. Finally, the Government will try to make the Prices Justification Tribunal perform miracles. This Tribunal, with a total lack of powers of compulsion, can at best retard inflation and only in some highly specific areas of the economy - at a cost I might add, of a grave potential misallocation of resources. 
Two weapons would work. One is a tight fiscal policy, that is a tight budgetary policy which the Government, burdened with its promises, is incapable of implementing and unwilling to implement. The second weapon, which should be implemented in conjunction with the first, is a stringent wages policy following a referendum in which the Commonwealth would obtain the necessary powers. Given the make-up of this Government, I despair at the very limited prospects of either policy being instituted until well after hyperinflation has been firmly established in Australia. This is basically a government of adventurers, and it is for this reason, I repeat, that I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition in these terms: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House expresses disapproval of this Budget because it is economically irresponsible. . . . 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister seen a Press release by the Australian Wheat Board to the effect that export wheat prices have now reached an all time record level? I understand from the Minister for Primary Industry that it is now $3.80 a bushel. Can the Minister say to what extent the Board has been able to take advantage of these high prices? What is the present stocks position of the Board? Has the Board sold forward from the incoming harvest? What has been the cost of, and how many people have been employed by, the wheat quota committees in each of the States? Who has borne the cost of these committees, and for how long does the Government intend to keep them in existence? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry seen the estimates by responsible people that the Western Australian wheat harvest will exceed the State's wheat delivery quota? In view of the critical shortage of wheat in that State, not only for human consumption and export but also for stock feeding purposes, and the inability of the Australian Wheat Board to give meat producers any long-term assurance that supplies of stock feed will be available throughout the coming year, will the Minister consider making an early announcement that all wheat delivery quotas in that State are suspended as an inducement to growers to plan to deliver all available wheat? Finally, will the Minister give early consideration to an announcement that this whole disastrous method of controlling wheat production will be abandoned and the great numbers of people engaged in its administration will be diverted to more productive enterprises? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: Is the Minister yet in a position to answer my question of 13 September last concerning the suspension of wheat quotas in Western Australia this year in order that all wheat for marketing in Western Australia may be delivered to the Australian Wheat Board and a first advance payment received? Is the Minister aware that, whether or not Western Australia as a State exceeds the State delivery quota, there will be many individual growers who will produce quantities of wheat vastly in excess of their individual quotas? Finally, is the Minister yet in a position to answer my question as to the actual cost of the quota delivery plan, and how many people are presently engaged in administering this abortive and redundant plan? Is its cost being met from grower's proceeds as part of the administration costs of the Australian Wheat Board and is this the major reason why these costs have now increased by approximately Sim a year since the inception of the quota delivery plan? 

 - Mr Speaker, the 2 Bills now under discussion are complementary and provide plenty of food for thought. They and the second reading speech of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  leave a number of vital questions unanswered, questions which should be answered by the Minister before these Bills pass through this chamber and questions to which the growers of the wheat are entitled to have answers. I hope the Minister will note them and when he replies to this debate will furnish concise and detailed information. I refer of course to the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill 1973 and the Wheat Export Charge Bill 1973. Before proceeding further in discussion of these Bills, may I point out that I represent one of the biggest, if not the biggest, wheat growing electorates in Australia. The division of Moore produces on average about half of the wheat production of Western Australia. It produces a quantity of wheat on average approximately twice the average production of the State of Queensland. Approximately 95 per cent of this production goes for export. The ports of Fremantle and Geraldton, which have a natural and undeniable freight advantage to all the major markets for Australian wheat, are the outlets for the wheat of the Moore division. In all the contracts which have been made with the People's Republic of China, it has been found necessary to include a clause strictly limiting the tonnages which the Chinese may nominate for loading at these ports. 
The Minister has stated that the extension of the wheat industry stabilisation plan for one year has the support of the wheat industry. My first question to the Minister is: What authority has he for this statement? To my knowledge, and it is quite extensive, the growers, up until Wednesday, 10 October, had no knowledge at all of this proposal to extend the existing arrangements for another year. The growers were aware that the plan which covered the delivery and marketing of the 1972-73 harvest had in effect expired on the eve of a Federal election. They had given the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation authority to negotiate a new 5-year stabilisation and marketing plan with the new and incoming Government. I have completely failed to find, on the basis of the most extensive inquiries and investigations, evidence of any discussions at the branch levels of any of the industrial organisations of any proposition that wheat marketing and stabilisation arrangements should be negotiated on a single year basis. I have completely failed to find any evidence that any industrial organisation has held a conference of growers in any State to discuss such a proposition, or that they have been given any opportunity to direct the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation on this all-important matter. In this situation, how can it be claimed that the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation had any mandate from the growers to accept this one year proposition on their behalf? If the Minister is leaning on an acceptance by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, how then does this constitute his right to claim that these Bills have the support of the industry, that is, the growers? 
This proposed one-year plan raises allimportant issues. Let it be clearly understood that there is absolutely no provision, or even an indication, that existing principles obtaining in this proposal or any of the previous plans are to be continued beyond the marketing of the 1973-74 harvest. On the contrary, the Minister has stated that the Government is deferring this extension pending the outcome of a thoroughgoing review of the operation of the wheat industry stabilisation plan. He states further 'that the Government will be moving to negotiations with the wheat industry and the States for stabilisation arrangements to apply for the period beyond 1973-74'. Surely this can only mean that the Government is providing for some departures from the principles of stabilisation which have prevailed in previous plans and likewise that there is no guarantee that these proposals will be acceptable to the States and most importantly to the growers. I repeat that there is no guarantee anywhere in these Bills that stabilisation will continue after the marketing of the incoming crop. 
Wheat stabilisation plans are, in essence, contracts between 3 parties - the Australian Government, the State governments, and the growers. The States have a fairly simple role to play. Briefly, they acquire the wheat and issue to the growers a claim for payment. They arrange for the receival, handling and storage of the wheat through the various State handling organisations, and, most importantly, they fix the price of wheat for home consumption. The growers produce the wheat, harvest it, deliver it to the licensed receiver, receive a first advance payment of 120c per bushel less rail freight and some other statutory charges, and ultimately receive payments from the sale proceeds of the pool. The Australian Government for its part sets up the Australian Wheat Board, lays down the terms and conditions on which it shall operate, and at all times has it under complete ministerial direction. The Australian Government also arranges an overdraft with the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank from which the Board pays the first advance to growers, and collects from, or conversely pays to, the Board the funds necessary to meet the commitment of the stabilisation sections of the wheat marketing and stabilisation plan. 
Having outlined the basic procedures of what these Bills set out to establish, let me now trace through what actually happens to a grower's wheat when he delivers it to the licensed receiver, and what will happen to the proceeds of the sale of that wheat under this one-year marketing and stabilisation plan - this one-year contract between the Australian Government, the State governments, and the growers. On delivery of his wheat, the grower will receive his claim for payment, which he will forward to the Australian Wheat Board in the State in which he has delivered the wheat. He will receive through his nominated bank from the Australian Wheat Board a credit representing the total number of bushels delivered multiplied by 120c, less freight, dockages - if any - and the levy proposed under the Wheat Tax Bill 1973. These moneys will be provided by the Board from the overdraft created with the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank. In the meantime the Board will have commenced shipments of the wheat delivered to the 1973-74 pool and as payments are received will progressively discharge the overdraft with the Rural Credits Department. This process will continue until the overdraft has been paid off and until such time as sufficient funds are accumulated in the pool account to enable a further dividend to be paid to growers. This dividend process will continue until the time is reached when growers have received payment equal to the amount of the first advance of 120c per bushel, plus an additional 40c per bushel, making a total of 160c per bushel- the guaranteed price. 
Just how long it will take to sell, ship and receive payment for a sufficient quantity of wheat to reach this situation is anybody's guess. But it can confidently be predicted that the next harvest will already be in the process of being received and another new plan will already have been placed on the statute book. The important point is that the Government guarantee will already have been satisfied from the growers' own funds and this most important aspect of the Government's guarantee been discharged. Payments to growers will continue beyond the guaranteed price of 160c per bushel to 165c per bushel when all realisations after that amount and up to another 15c per bushel will go into the stabilisation fund, estimated by the Minister to reach an amount of $46m. From this point onwards pool realisations, if any, again revert to growers until the pool is finally wound up. The provision for all realisations after the growers have received 165c per bushel and up to 180c per bushel being paid into the stabilisiation fund is the proposition contained in the Wheat Export Charge Bill 1973. 
This brings me to the most important question of all to be answered by the Minister. The question is: Why do we need the Wheat Export Charge Bill 1973 at all? Even if the pool did not realise 160c per bushel f.o.r. natural terminal port, there still would not be any need for this Bill because, quite obviously, as I have already shown, it does not commence to operate until growers have received the guaranteed return plus 5c per bushel. If the pool failed to realise this amount, their guarantee would be met by Treasury subvention. As this is only a one-year contract, with no life beyond the incoming harvest, then quite obviously there is no continuing Government liability in respect of future harvests contained in these Bills. In respect of future harvests, all the Minister has said is: 
The Government is providing for this extension- 
The Wheat Industry Stabilisiation Bill 1973 -  pending the outcome of a thorough-going review of the operation of the wheat industry stabilisation plan. Under the direction of the Government a review group in the Department of Primary Industry will in the fairly near future be presenting its report for our consideration. We will then be moving to consideration of our position in relation to negotiations with  the wheat industry and the States for stabilisiation arrangements to apply for the period beyond 1973-74. 
It must surely be quite obvious by now that the desire of the Government to enact legislation under which it will, without any safeguards to the growers and without any justification whatsoever, withhold $46m of their proceeds from the incoming harvest can only be associated with 'the thorough-going review being conducted by a group within the Department of Primary Industry'. 
Is this the same group of academics who conceived the disastrous wheat quota delivery plan and sold it to the then Secretary of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation on the understanding that he would then sell it back to the Government, through the Federation, as the Federation's own courageous plan? Is this $46m being withheld from the proceeds of the incoming harvest to be used as a weapon with which to blackmail the industry into accepting some equally stupid and disastrous plan for future stabilisation - the work again of a group of impractical academic theorists entrenched in the Department of Primary Industry? Whilst being prepared to support the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill 1973 and the Wheat Tax Bill 1973, I am utterly opposed at this stage to the passage of the Wheat Export Charge Bill 1973. I believe that all consideration of this Bill should be deferred until the negotiations have been completed between the 3 principals - the Australian Government, the State governments and the growers - for another long-term marketing and stabilisation plan. There is presently no justification for this Bill. 
As I have demonstrated earlier in my discussion of these Bills, if the 1974-75 harvest is to be sold through the Australian Wheat Board and is to be covered by stabilisation arrangements, there must be on the statute book by this time next year legislation similar to the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill 1973 presently before us. Subject to agreement with the growers, made freely and without coercion, there will still be ample time to negotiate another long-term marketing and stabilisation plan long before the Wheat Export Charge Bill 1973 becomes operative. This Bill can well form part of any proposed legislation for such longterm plan and would need little other than its title to be changed to 'Wheat Export Charge Bill 1974*. There will be ample time to deal with this Bill next year when we are considering the legislation necessary to cover the 1974-75 harvest and, hopefully, an extended period of succeeding harvests. No moneys will be collected under this Bill until the Australian Wheat Board has sold, shipped and received payment for an amount of wheat equal to 165c per bushel multiplied by the number of bushels delivered to the 1973-74 pool. There is not the slightest possibility of this happening before this time next year. 
The Wheat Export Charge Bill 1973 stands exposed as a thoroughly unnecessary piece of proposed legislation. The Minister's second reading speech on this Bill stands exposed as a thoroughly misleading document, completely unnecessary as  to its alleged  purpose, completely unnecessary as a complement to its parent Bill, and under the gravest suspicion as to its real purpose. It certainly can never play any part in the marketing and stabilisation of the 1973-74 harvest and should be deferred at least until its part in any future marketing and stabilisation scheme is revealed. 
This now brings me to the final point which time will permit me to make in respect of these Bills. The Minister, in his second reading speech on the Wheat Stabilisation Bill 1973, stated: 
The 1973-74 season be denned as a quota season. 
Why is it necessary to make this one of the basic provisions of this Bill? The crop has already been planted under quota delivery provisions, the Australian quota has been determined and each State has been given a quota entitlement. Admittedly we apparently have the extraordinary situation where one State abandoned individual quotas for the growing crop and now faces, because it may have available for delivery a quantity of wheat in excess of that State's quota, the seemingly impossible task of trying to ration deliveries from growers against the background of having given them an open go at seeding time, or alternatively of abandoning quotas altogether. 
Is the provision referred to by the Minister necessary in order to throw a cloak of legality over the scandalous waste of growers funds in the administration of this unnecessary and ridiculous plan? I have repeatedly endeavoured to obtain from the Minister the detailed costs of the quota delivery plan. I have been singularly unsuccessful in these attempts. However, the following facts seem to have emerged: Firstly, that the cost of the plan is being met by the Australian Wheat Board as a charge on  growers' proceeds; secondly, that the administration costs of the Australian Wheat Board have increased by approximately Sim a year since the inception of the quota delivery plan; and thirdly, because Co-operative Bulk Handling Ltd in Western Australia declined to accept any responsibility for the plan at all, that State's costs stand separate from the cost of reimbursement paid to the handling company and are approximately $136,000 for the past year. Other States are disguising the very much higher cost of administering the quota delivery plan in their States by absorbing a substantia) part of the cost into the costs of the handling organisation in that State and still charging them to the Australian Wheat Board through this indirect channel. 
To substantiate my claims concerning the greatly increased costs of the Australian Wheat Board, I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the following schedule of administration costs of the Board taken from the 1971-72 annual report of the Board which shows these costs have increased from $1.812m in 1968-69 - the last year prior to the introduction of the quota delivery plan- to $2.8m in 1971-72. 

<graphic href="087131197311222_41_2.jpg"></graphic>

May I respectfully suggest to the House that the time has probably arrived when it would not be unreasonable to call for a full inquiry at the highest level into the whole operating costs of the Australian Wheat Board. Finally, may I place on record my implacable opposition to the action of the Minister for Primary Industry in directing the Australian Wheat Board to conclude a sales contract with Egypt against the considered judgment of the Board. This problem could never have arisen were it not for the fact that the Minister has the power of positive direction over the Board. As proof of the sincerity of my opposition to this objectionable innovation, I desire to place before the House the following extract from my presidential report to the Farmers' Union of Western Australia at its 1955 Annual Conference. This extract contains my submission to the then Minister for Commerce and Agriculture, the right honourable John McEwen, submitted in my capacity as  President  of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. I seek leave to incorporate the extract in Hansard. 
STABILISATION: After the General Elections last year the Federal and State Governments finally reached agreement on the details of a five-year Stabilisation Plan and a date for the conduct of growers' ballots was fixed. 
Prior to the ballots being held a special meeting of the Executive was called to determine Union Policy. The Executive decided that as there was only one growers' organisation in this State, The Farmers' Union, and as the Farmers' Union embraced virtually 100 per cent of the growers, then the ballot was in effect a ballot of members of the Farmers' Union. It would have been presumptuous on the part of the Executive to determine policy on this question in these circumstances. The Executive did, however, feel a responsibility to ensure that every grower had a proper appreciation and understanding of what the plan meant and how it would work, and to this end arranged for the publication of a series of articles explaining, the details of the Plan as presented to the growers, and arranged for the  President  to address a series of meetings throughout the wheat belt. 
The result of the Ballot is now history, a majority of growers voting in favour of the Plan. 
When the Bills were introduced into the Federal and State Parliaments to give legislative effect to the Plan, growers were dismayed to learn that the clauses in the 1946 legislation which gave the Minister a power of veto over the Australian Wheat Board, were to be amended to extend this power of veto to a positive power of direction and bring the Board under complete Ministerial control. 
At no time during the lengthy negotiations for the Stabilisation Plan did the Minister for Commerce and Agriculture give the Australian Wheatgrowers' . Federation any reason to believe that the Governments required the power of direction over the Australian Wheat Board. The Federation had requested that the clauses already contained in the Legislation and giving the Minister power to veto action of the Board should be deleted, and the Board should be relieved completely of the possibility of Ministerial interference. To be fair we must admit that at no time did the Minister give the Federation any reason to believe that he was prepared to delete these clauses. It is equally true that at no time was the slightest indication given that these clauses were to be amended in such a drastic manner. 
Had the Minister advised growers of the Government's intention in this regard, prior to the conduct of the ballots and had growers accepted the Stabilisation Plan with a full knowledge of all its implications, then there could have been no cause for complaint. To allow the ballots to proceed and at the same time keep growers in ignorance of this vital alteration in a fundamental principle of the Plan must surely represent one of the greatest confidence tricks of all time. 
In an attempt to secure some variation or deletion of these new clauses, or alternatively to provide some safeguards, I submitted, in my capacity as President of the A.W.F., the following case to the Minister for Commerce and Agriculture, Rt Hon. John McEwen at Melbourne on the 28 February last: 
The Federation views with most serious concern and disappointment, the action of the Commonwealth Government in making what we consider to be a fundamental change in the measure of control assumed by the Crown over the marketing of wheat, as compared with that applying when the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act 1946 had application, and because the change holds much menace to the principle of private ownership of the produce of the land, and the principle of the farmers' right to market their own produce. It is this thought which has been the motivating power behind this written statement, in order that a permanent record may exist of the very strong objections of this Federal Body. 
I propose firstly to point out that the original Stabilisation Act created an Australian Wheat Board, and clothed it with certain fairly wide powers which it might use in marketing wheat to the best advantage of growers, acting as a bona-fide trustee. 
These powers set out in the old Act were permissive powers, qualified only by any direction which the Minister might give to the Board. No great exception can be taken to a clause of that kind, which obviously permitted the Minister to veto any act, or proposed act, by the Board which might conflict with public interest. Such a safeguard is necessary when a monopoly is granted. It may be frankly admitted at this juncture, the financial responsibilities of the Government arising from a guarantee of say 12/7d per bushel are greater than they were in 1947, when the cost of production figure was say 6/ 3d per bushel. But the privilege of a Minister to give general directions to the Board, which must be obeyed, may go far beyond financial considerations. Such directions may have a social or economic objective, quite outside the finances of the Wheat Pool, and quite conceivably have a political objective. 
For instance, take the infamous New Zealand wheat deal when  Mr Scully  sold 18 million bushels of wheat to New Zealand at 5/9d per bushel, one of the objectives was to fix the landed price of the purchases made in Australia, to coincide with the price which the New Zealand Government was prepared to guarantee wheat production in that country. My recollection of the calculation was Australian F.O.B. price 5/9d shipping freight l/9d- Total 7/6d. Guaranteed price to New Zealand farmers - 7/6d. 
At a later stage the Wheat Board was subjected to considerable pressure from Canberra to make the Board pay freight on wheat to Tasmania. Indeed there was more than one Government behind that move. 
Had the Minister been clothed at those times with powers 'which must be obeyed', then the Board would have been compelled to act according to Ministerial wishes. The demand made upon the Board in respect to that matter was quite clearly in conflict with the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act, and was also in conflict with the principles underlying that last bulwark of freedom, Clause 92 of the Australian Constitution. 
The Board resisted the pressure, but the matter did not end there. At a later stage a series of amending Acts were introduced into the Federal and State Parliaments calculated to achieve the same results by a circumvention of Clause 92. Certainly these amending Acts had to secure passage through States Parliaments, but if there had been powers of direction in the Act similar to those now inserted, the farmers would have been left with the alternative of accepting an admittedly unfair price for stockfeed, or meeting the bill of costs for sea freight to Tasmania on the whole of the wheat used there, presently about 3/6d per bushel, or almost as much as freight to the United Kingdom. This demand undoubtedly originated in the political arena of Tasmania, and was not confined to one political party. 
The New South Wales Minister for Agriculture also made a demand for wheat to be sent to New South Wales from Victoria, which would normally go for export at a much higher figure. The Board successfully resisted that pressure too. 
Then on another occasion, a Minister for Commerce intervened in negotiations between the Australian Wheat Board and Britain, selling a very large quantity of wheat at a priceless than that the Board was holding out for. 
Your Government provided proof that the political drive to make the Australian Wheat Board pay freights to Tasmania was wrong in principle by bringing down new legislation dealing with the matter. 
This seems to be the point,  Sir, to  request you to state specifically whether, in your opinion, the Australian Wheat Board has ever been unfaithful to its trust, or lacking in recognition on its duty to the Nation. If the Board, in your opinion, has not erred in this important aspect, then do you consider that any State Minister has at any time had reason to saythat the Board has failed to act in strict accordance to the governing Acts. 
This Federation believes that it is essential to the future conduct of the Board, that the Board must be fully protected from what may be termed " back door pressures." 
The above matters are, however, relatively small when measured against the fact that a grant of powers, qualified only by a power of veto exercisable by a Minister only when the Board offends against public interest, constituted a clear and very valuable Trusteeship which has beneficial psychological effects on producers and Board alike. There can be no doubt whatever, that the knowledge amongst farmers that their wheat was received by, and handled by men with that sense of responsibility which pertains to Trusteeship was a source of satisfaction to growers, and a moral strength permeating the whole concept of organised marketing on a Commonwealth basis. 
That satisfaction went a long way towards securing an affirmative vote at the recent ballots. If the principle of Trusteeship was to be destroyed, then growers should have been advised prior to the taking of the ballot. This Federation learned with utter dismay, that whilst ballots were being taken on the amended plan, no mention was made that such a sweeping change was contemplated over the marketing of the produce of our land. The instinct of the farmer leads him to assume, that wheat produced by his own hand and brain, and his own materials, applied to his own land, is his own property. The control clause in the new Act will disabuse his mind of that conception, but it is doubtful if anything of equal value is being substituted. 
It is extremely difficult to believe that the Menzies Government, or yourself, are responsible for this gigantic stride in the direction of complete socialisation. Nevertheless, we know that uniform legislation of the kind passed by the States is usually drafted in Canberra, and moreover the Commonwealth Act is couched in similar terms. The Commonwealth and the States Governments must all have been consenting parties. 
The Acts now constitute the law of the land, but I desire to request your Government to seek an amendment at the next session of Parliament to restore the position set out in the old Act. If it is claimed that the new clause means the same thing as the old, then there should be no objection to granting this reasonable request, the work involved would be amply rewarded by a restoration of confidence and faith in the integrity of Governments. 
Alternatively, I believe it is absolutely essential that the following assurances be given: 
That no direction be given to the Board except above the personal signature of the Minister administering the Act for the time being. 
That neither Board members, nor the staff of the Board, shall be deemed to be public servants. 
That no direction will . be given to the Board which will of itself limit the right of free speech by individual members of the Board, unless such freedom of speech is deemed to be prejudicial to the proper conduct of the marketing of wheat. 
That no direction shall be given to any member of the Board or its staff which compels him to frustrate lawful resolution of the Board properly recorded in the Minutes. 
That it shall be assumed that unless the Board has received a written direction signed by the Minister on any given subject, then the Board is free to act upon its own unfettered judgment.' 
The Minister's reaction to this written submission has been most disappointing. 
The Minister told the Federation that the clauses were inserted in the legislation with his full knowledge and he would accept full responsibility for them. He offered the Federation no hope that the clauses would be deleted and gave no indication that the alternative assurances requested would be granted. The Minister said he would rely on the record of the Government. 
Although it has taken nearly 20 years to completely vindicate the need for that submission made to the then 
Minister in my capacity as President of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, and nearly 20 years for the proof to emerge as to the real need to ensure that the Australian Wheat Board is free to act on the basis of trusteeship for the growers free from Ministerial interference of any sort, my stand has not changed one iota. Whether the Australian Wheat Board should or should not have concluded the sale to Egypt - the subject of this present controversy - is relatively unimportant compared to the wider issue - whether the Board is in fact a trustee, for the growers charged with the responsibility of marketing the growers wheat to the best possible advantage and returning to the growers the net proceeds after meeting marketing costs. 
The proposition contained in the present ministerial direction to the Board to conclude the sale to Egypt on terms unacceptable to the Board is a complete violation of this vital principle. It highlights the danger of writing into the Acts supporting the Board the power of ministerial direction and control and cuts right across the vital principle that the produce of the land belongs to the producers subject only to the payment of his just debts. It is socialisation in its crudest and rudest form. It is a matter of deep regret to me that this power of socialisation was written into these Acts by a former leader of the Party to which I belong. It does not and never shall change my attitude to such an infamous proposition. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the newly proposed wheat marketing and stabilisation plan a radical departure from the principles on which past plans have been based and, in practice, only an equalisation plan - equalisation of eastern Australian growers' returns with Western Australian growers' export earnings? Has there been a virtual abandonment of the cost index procedures for determining the home consumption price and export guaranteed price with provision for annual variations reflecting cost movements? Finally, will the Minister give an assurance that before this plan is placed on the statute book a ballot of growers will be held in each State to ensure that it is acceptable to the majority of growers? 
