What action has the Minister for Education taken to provide emergency grants for needy students at tertiary institutions? What are the sums of money involved? To what extent will this measure relieve the problem which exists at present? 
Despite the many congratulations which have already been offered to  Mr Speaker,  I would ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to convey to him my sincere congratulations. Making a first occasion speech in any place and under any set of circumstances is a trying experience. Spoken in this chamber, it carries with it a strong sense of pride, a very real humility and a consuming responsibility. In applying myself to the task of being an effective member of Federal Parliament and a worthy representative of the Holt electorate, I am grateful for the confidence shown in me by those responsible for my election. 
I wish at the outset to pay a tribute to my predecessor,  Mr Len  Reid. Marshall McLuhan made use of that eminently descriptive phrase the global village'. It reminds us in a nutshell of our citizenship in and our responsibility for the world. Perhaps no man in this Federal Parliament, in recent years, has more patiently, and at the same time more urgently, applied himself to the subject of overseas aid to underdeveloped countries than has Len Reid. I pledge myself, as far as I am able, to build upon the interest and concern he has generated. It is my hope, and I believe the hope of this Government, to lift Australia's foreign aid program to underdeveloped countries to at least one per cent of gross national product in the life of this present Parliament. 
I believe I am singularly fortunate to be entering Parliament at a time of rapid change and exciting development. I am encouraged by the fact that the Party to which I have given my allegiance is at last where it deservedly belongs - on the Government benches. Already the nation senses the dawn of a new era in Australia. In some ways, the period is similar to the last 2 decades of the 19th century. At that time the spirit of nationalism found its political fulfilment in the establishment of this Federal Parliament. The nation is, I believe, beginning now to learn what is meant by 'coming of age'. 
There are signs of a new nationalism emerging - a nationalism which is casting off the irritations of a worn and weary jingoism in order to fulfil its destiny and purpose within the geography and sphere of influence to which it properly belongs; an outgoing nationalism which now seeks to express itself in an anthem of its own. Some have said that this is merely trivial. Others - and, I believe, a great majority - see it as a symbol of healthy independence. Shortly, Australians will be able to speak of citizenship rather than naturalisation ceremonies. Australia now pursues its own foreign policies rather than following slavishly and uncritically the rigidity of powerful, if friendly, nations. The cultivation and expression of our own special ethos within the family of nations will result, I believe, not in our loss but in our ultimate and lasting gain. The value placed upon our national character will be in direct proportion to the degree of respect which we command in both sound government at home and bold leadership abroad. 
On the larger arena of world affairs, an electorate such as mine seems small. Yet Holt, like many others, is a microcosm within a macrocosm. It holds within its boundaries the mixture of heavy and light industries. It maintains growing, active and demanding housing areas and residential communities. Each of these is sensitive in its own way to changes in economic stability. The memory of dole queues and emergency relief centres in February 1972 is still fresh in the minds of many. That is an experience, let me say, that we are determined not to repeat under a Labor government. Holt is in fact so clearly representative of Australian life in its economy and sociology that the sorts of things I believe are necessary in my electorate are those things for which the entire Commonwealth seeks progress and direction. With this in mind, I comment upon that section of the GovernorGeneral's Speech which concerned itself with education and allied matters. With a background of a quarter of a century spent in teaching from grade 1 in primary school to form 6 in secondary schools and in lecturing and tutoring at tertiary institutions, and with experience of work at a supervisory and administrative level, it may not be surprising that on this occasion I should choose to major on the subject of education. 
It seems almost trite to commence by affirming the essential difference of every child and the worth of every individual student. It seems so obvious that it is taken for granted. It is, however, at this very basic point that the previous Government failed so lamentably to meet its obligations. The child of today is too often manipulated by ineffective and inefficient structures, disadvantaged by often haphazard and totally inequitable distribution of Commonwealth grants and financial assistance, misunderstood and pressured by ambitious and confused parents and de-humanised and depersonalised by hungry labour markets. He is in danger of being submerged in the floods of political and socio-economic opportunism. It is the task of every school to strive to develop fully the personality of the child; it must assist the child to develop into the sort of person who can cope with rapid and often far reaching change. It should enable him to communicate more effectively with those around him. It should make him one who can gainfully and creatively use his leisure time so that the fullest benefits from life can be enjoyed and shared. The school must encourage a heightened critical faculty so that in every impingement of impression through whatever medium he may the better be able to arrive at assessments affecting his past, his present and his future. 
We must move, I submit, towards a better system and a more imaginative educational philosophy. In particular, we must provide a framework whereby we encourage the child to rate himself against himself. Such type of evaluation would displace the method of dog eating dog - that is, a distinctive rating against others - which, by its very competitive nature, may cripple and destroy some and may stamp the mark of failure upon a significant proportion of other students for long periods, even throughout the whole of their school life. Can we wonder, in these circumstances, where the drop-outs go? Can we wonder why they carry that failure into the wilderness of social maladjustment? The teacher must be seen, in any progressive education program, not as a fact distributor but as a guide, an encourager and an organiser of situations in which the child can learn most effectively for himself. The teacher who is forced to prepare for examinations has sadly, but often compulsorily, succeeded only in denigrating living education. Formal education is not an end in itself; it is only the starting point of an on-going process. 
One of the principal aims in education is to guard the way and keep it open. All too often the way is barred before the process has begun. If individual differences are to be recognised and the issues overcome, we must strive to tackle the problem where it belongs - in the classroom. A large and consequently often an unmanageable class is the deadly enemy of personal treatment and individual attention. Despite the utterances of a Minister for Education in the previous government, I must emphatically take an opposite view. In October 1971, the honourable member for Wannon, ./1 Malcolm Fraser, at that time holding the portfolio, and speaking on a survey of needs, questioned the necessity to reduce class sizes. He said then: 
I think it is relevant in the context of a survey of needs such as this, to keep in mind that research in the related area of class size has failed to substantiate the view that pupil performance and achievement are directly related to class size. 
If the honourable member believed firmly in the too-long held but entirely fallacious philosophy of examination-oriented education upon which my earlier remarks gave ventilation, then his contention is consistent with his error of judgment - an error, I may add, which he and his Party have persisted in both before and since, with tragic consequences. It is, however, my view that a large and diverse class size seriously reduces the possibilities of coping adequately with the variables of learning capacities, speed and efficiency. 
Moving now from the area of method and concept in education, 1 would wish to comment on the issue of right and privilege. It is my conviction, and that of my Party, that the birthright of every child in a prosperous and affluent Australia is to receive an education of quality - and, in time, of equality as well. Twenty-three years of Conservative government, buttressing elitist concepts and supporting the 'haves' as against the 'have nots', has brought us to a state of near chaos. Only an Australian Schools Commission, working on the terms of reference as outlined in Labor's policy, will be able to salvage the wreckage of past mistakes and the paucity of long term planning by the previous government. The Commission will undertake its work on the basis of needs and priorities not on the unjust application of the 'numbers game'. 
Let us look in a little more detail at 3 important areas where review and reform are urgently needed. Firstly, in the matter of the award of Commonwealth scholarships I refer to the scholarship award at Form 4 level for the final 2 years of secondary school education. I have researched some interesting figures taken from my own electorate of Holt. As at the end of 1972 there were 1.170 students in Form 4 at the 7 government high schools. One hundred and fourteen  scholarsships  were awarded. As against this, 2 high fee-paying independent schools carried together 239 students at the same level and 91 scholarships were given. In other words, 38 per cent of eligible students gained scholarships in 2 affluent private schools, whilst 9.7 per cent of eligible students in 7 governments schools gained Commonwealth scholarships. The chance of gaining a scholarship in a wealthy independent school was 4 times as great as in a government school. 
The contrast is even more sharply defined if we take examples from extremes of the social spectrum. At Haileybury College, Keysborough, one of Melbourne's more exclusive, public schools, there were 190 students at Form 4 level. A staggering 76 Commonwealth scholarships were secured by the children of advantaged parents. At Doveton High School, with one more student only - that is 191  -  at Form 4, the number of Commonwealth scholarships awarded was 12. Haileybury has over 6 times greater advantage over Doveton in the matter of direct financial assistance to selected students. This is an iniquitous system indeed - a system, I would contend, which is based on the false assumption that financial assistance should be given to and should be the prerogative of those most highly rated in a competitive examination situation. Once again the concept of privilege so consistently and persistently pursued by the previous government asserts itself. We of the Government side contend that every student who has successfully completed all but the last 2 years of his schooling should receive financial assistance to enable and encourage him to proceed with his education. 
Touching now on the vexed issue of State aid, the misuse of government money also applies. The richer schools, on the basis of present distribution, get richer, whilst the poorer schools, both government and Catholic and housing the majority of students, remain the poorer. In each independent school, a fiat rate of $104 per student per year is provided by the Commonwealth. In the independent primary schools, the amount is $62 per annum. In this distribution of funds no account whatsoever is taken of the needs of the schools as apart from the numbers enrolled. Using 1971 figures for the school enrolments concerned, the largest of Victoria's independent and well endowed schools, Methodist Ladies' College, Kew, with a school complement of 2,120 students would receive the astounding total of $205,276 per annum from Commonwealth sources. At Haileybury College, Keysborough, with 1,432 students, the Commonwealth aid received would be $135,275 per year. This does not, of course, take into account a similarly large amount, on the same kind of unfair actuarial stupidity, granted handsomely by State governments. The largesse of the previous government's 'Lady Bountiful' approach to wealthy independent schools continues to perpetuate inequities and, in consequence, to reduce the kind of educational reform which I commented upon earlier in my speech being carried out. This Government maintains that the only fair system in determining financial assistance in schools, be they independent or government, is on the basis of need. 
Specialist services have long since been recognised as essential in the total area of educational needs. Few would deny that the modern student is under grave pressure, mentally and emotionally. In 1972 it was estimated that the ratio of psychologists to students was one to every 18,000 in Victorian government schools. We should work towards the appointment of a student counsellor in every school. I would see the extension of the counselling service as underlining the concept of education in relation to the child's total experience both inside the school and out of it. Under such conditions the student becomes a whole person, not a human vacuum to be filled with structured facts and tabulated knowledge. 
The need for specialist teachers and services in many fields becomes increasingly necessary and sometimes tragically urgent. We have hardly begun to cope to any significant extent with the problem of dyslexia or autism. Even where such services are available they are dispersed and inadequate. Following an urgent request for action regarding a serious speech defect, I was informed that the child could be placed on the long waiting list. An estimated 2 years' delay was expected before therapy could commence. A school was opened in Dandenong this year for those with special learning difficulties. It was fully enrolled 6 months before it opened its doors. It is now clearly recognised that there should be 2 or 3 remedial teachers in every school. Where appointments have been made, too often they have to be used for normal classroom teaching. 
These are but a few examples. A similar situation applies with respect to migrant teachers. It is at these crisis points that Commonwealth funds should be applied. When every child is able to take advantage of his full time at secondary school; when all underprivileged children are cared for; when physical education facilities are available to all students; when the dyslectic and autistic child has the specialist treatment he needs; when counsellors are trained, available and appointed to our schools; when remedial treatment of children with learning difficulties is adequate; when all migrant children, with their particular language difficulties, are catered for; then, if we have an excess of financial resources, and only then, will I be happy for thousands of dollars to be poured into wealthy, elitist schools and institutions. As I see it now, that day is a long way off. 
If the greater part of my time has been spent in spelling out the areas of need in education,  would not wish to convey the notion that I see those needs as an isolated or restricted area of concern. The discovery of life - and as one of the greatest teachers once remarked 'life more abundant' - is its aim and its object. It must seek to equip both young and old to understand and to apply justly and wisely the means of the distribution of our national wealth, lt is the study and the operation of economics. Life abundant seeks also to care for people. It brings a greater sense of responsibility towards others. This means social security and welfare, and public health. To be truly educated is to be aware of the world we live in - the city, the street and the block, environment, housing and community. Failure to understand the worth of community, whether at local, State or Federal level, is to fail to appreciate the validity of government. It is, therefore;  Mr Deputy Speaker,  with this sense of balance in mind, that I express my commendation of the GovernorGeneral's Speech. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! Before I call the honourable member for Berowra, I remind honourable gentlemen that he will be making his maiden speech. 1 ask that he be afforded the usual courtesies. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. In 1970 a survey of needs of the State Government Education Departments was completed. This indicated a shortfall of some $ 1,443m over the next 5 years. What progress has been made towards meeting that sum of money? What further steps are anticipated that will go towards meeting the shortfall indicated in the survey? How does the Minister relate the findings of the survey of needs to the areas of education not covered in the survey, notably, technical education and pre-schools? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Social workers in my electorate estimate that deserted wives and prisoners' wives wait for an average of 4 weeks for their initial cheques from the government, State or Federal. As money has been made available to destitute and needy university students, has the Minister considered the possibility of making grants or loans available to local councils or to regional social security centres to enable emergency relief to be given to destitute people? 
My question to the Minister for Education relates to the Commonwealth secondary school libraries program. A statement concerning the payments made in 1972 was tabled in this House on Thursday last. Can the Minister provide any explanation of why the Victorian Education Department chose to spend only $500,000 of the $2,315,862 made available to it? 
I rise to support the Bill. We have just been treated to a most enjoyable piece of oratory by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen). 
It was pleasing however, that in his last 3 or 4 minutes he came back to the point of what the Bill is all about. The crux of the Bill is concerned with a matter which is at the heart of the democratic parliamentary process, namely, that as far as possible the value of a man's vote should be the same wherever he lives. This is far from the situation today. 
If the honourable member waits with patience he will get his answer. From the debate on this Bill one can only be amazed at the stand being taken by Liberal Party speakers. In an attempt to maintain the Liberal-Country Party alliance they have abandoned the basic democratic principle which is incorporated in this Bill. They have talked about everything else but this; and the Bill is concerned with one vote, one value. The speeches made by Liberal Party members have been tongue in cheek affairs. 
If the honourable member has patience, I will tell him. The demands of political convenience should not be placed above issues of principle and the principle with which we are concerned is equitable electoral boundaries. It is no surprise that speakers from the Country Party have opposed this Bill vehemently. After all, they are fighting for their political survival and undoubtedly this Bill will remove from the Country Party the favoured electoral conditions that it enjoys at present. We on the Government side accept that this Bill does not go all the way - this was made clear in the second reading speech of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  - in achieving equality of representation. What we are saying is that this is a necessary first step. We know that it is impossible to have electorates of exactly the same size at this point of time. We believe that it would be far more democratic if representation were on the basis of number of people in an electorate rather than numbers of voters. Again, we concede that this is not possible. We further concede that the Constitution Act itself restricts the principle at which we are aiming. Section 7 of the Constitution provides that all original States, irrespective of population, shall have equal representation in the Senate. Section 24 requires that original States, irrespective of population, shall have a minimum of 5 representatives in the House of Representatives. These provisions have meant that in the 73 years of the Federal Parliament there has been an inflated value for the voters of Tasmania. 
Members from this side do not accept the provisions of the Electoral Act which allow and, in fact, direct the redistribution commissioners to set boundaries enclosing populations in particular electorates up to 20 per cent above or below a State's quota figure. We contend that a much fairer figure would be 10 per cent. We contend also that matters such as disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance, density or sparsity of population and the area of a division are totally out of place in any parliamentary system which purports to reflect democratic pr, nc, p es. 
The principle which is embodied in this Bill is one vote one value. This is not some new idea we are striving to impose on the people of Australia. It is one that has been espoused for more than 100 years. In fact as early as 1838 the Chartists, a group well ahead of its time in Britain, enshrined this principle in its 6 point charter. It went further than wc propose to go. It stated that constituencies should be made up of an equal number of voters. One section of the preamble to its charter relating to just government, on which members of this House should reflect, stated:   . . this responsibility is best enforced through the instrumentality of a body which emanates directly from, and is immediately responsible to, the whole people, and which completely reflects their feelings and interests. 
I would remind honourable members that it was the Chartists who in their 6 points came out strongly in favour of payment to members of Parliament - a new concept in the second quarter of the nineteenth century. Similarly, the politics oF bending electoral boundaries is nothing new. It was introduced in 1812 by the Massachusetts Governor of the time, Eldridge Gerry, when he re-drew the electoral boundaries within his State to give his party an unfair advantage. In Australia it has been the Country Party which has shown itself to be the master of the gerrymander. 
Let us look in more detail at the disparities that exist today as a result of the present provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Let us compare my electorate, Holt - a metropolitan electorate but one which most definitely has a rural component - with Wimmera, a country electorate. Taking the figures as at 26th January 1973, we find that Holt has 69,898 voters enrolled whereas Wimmera has only 45,574, a difference of 24,324 voters. Expressing this in percentage terms, it means that Holt has 51.18 per cent more voters than Wimmera. Examining the 2 electorates in terms of population and taking the 1971 census figures, Holt had 128,211 people and Wimmera had 77,526 people, a difference of 50,685 or, in percentage terms, there were 65.38 per cent more people in Holt than in Wimmera. I am not suggesting that I am doing 65 per cent more work than the honourable member for Wimmera, but what I am stating is that the people of Holt are not receiving equal and fair representation, and that is what this Bill is all about. I am stating that this is just one example of the rural gerrymander that has been perpetuated by the Liberal and Country parties when in government. 
The standard reply of the Country Party over the years has been that over representation of rural areas is justified, firstly, because of the area that a local member has to represent and, secondly, because rural economic interests, particularly the rural export industries, are so important to the national economy that they must have adequate representation. The second argument is, of course, sectional special pleading for which no objective or determinate measurement of justification can be found. The first is of greatly diminished significance since 1900 with the transport and communications revolution of the 20th century, together with the social revolution. Surely these changes have so transformed the work of a member of Parliament as to make the number of his constituents rather than the dimension of his electorate the key to the burden of his works. 
Furthermore, in the words of L. F. Crisp: 
The rural interests have long since established such heavy representation on the boards, commissions and other agencies which supply them with services or regulate the marketing and (within limits) the prices of their products, that they have substantially undercut any claim they may have had in years gone by for a special 'gerrymander' of the Australian national electorate. 
As has already been stated in this House by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  the answer for the member in the farflung electorate is not to pervert the electoral system whereby the vote of a person living in the Wimmera electorate has much more value than the vote of a person living in my electorate. The answer is to provide representatives of large country electorates with better travelling facilities, increased staff and things such as this to enable them to carry out their work effectively, and steps have already been taken in this connection. 
The Joint Committee on Constitutional Review of  1958,  with representatives from both sides of the Parliament, clearly supported the proposition which is embodied in this Bill, and this may well be the answer to the question that has been posed consistently by honourable members opposite while I have been speaking. Among its recommendations the Committee said:   . . upon the division of a State into electoral divisions, the number of electors in a division in a State should not exceed by more than one-tenth, or fall short by more than one-tenth, a quota ascertained by dividing the total number of electors in the State by the number of members to be chosen in that State. 
The Constitutional Review Committee in its recommendations was upholding a principle which is beyond dispute in any democratic system - the principle of equality of representation. In this connection it is not without interest to note that the United States Supreme Court ruled in the case of Baker versus Carr in  1962  that if congressional electorates were unequally drawn the voters in over-sized electorates were being deprived of their constitutionally guaranteed 'equal protection of the laws'. 
Let us now have a look at the reaction of the various parties to the recommendations of the Constitutional Review Committee on which, as I have said, all parties were represented. First, let us take the Country Party. Notwithstanding that the members of the Country Party on this Committee had subscribed to its recommendation of a tolerance of not more than  10  per cent, the then Leader of the Country Party and  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr McEwen,  prevailed on his colleagues in the coalition Ministry not only to retain the  20  per cent tolerance but also to amend the Act in ways calculated to permit further gerrymander in favour of rural electorates. In  1965  the present Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who was then Minister for the Interior, moved and had carried further amendments to the Electoral Act to open the way for increased 'territorial representation'. As a result of these amendments, Commissioners were required to give legality and respectability to a degree of rural gerrymandering, formerly unknown at the Federal level. Considerations to be taken into account by the Commissioners included the matters that I have mentioned - disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance, the density or sparsity of population and the area of the division. So the provisions to be considered by the Commissioners were worded and re- worded in such a way as to sharpen the requirement that rural electors be favoured. 
Let us have a look at the Liberal Party which, as the senior partner in the coalition, must accept equal blame for the inequities that exist at present. Its role has been one of acquiescence. The Liberal Party has given way to the pressures exerted on it by its coalition partner, the Country Party. To me it is incredible that any party that bears the name Liberal' could go along with the Country Party in measures which obviously were directed towards a sectional interest in the country. Similarly, it is equally inconceivable that the Liberal Party can find any grounds on which to oppose the principle enshrined in this Bill - that is, equality of representation. 
Now let us look at the actions of the Labor Party in this period, and I would say to the House that they are in sharp contrast. While the Liberal-Country Party governments have failed to act on the Constitutional Review Committee's recommendations, the Labor Party consistently has supported this principle of equality of representation in this Parliament. Whenever the matter of electoral redistribution has been under consideration, the Labor Party, as the Opposition, has moved appropriate amendments which attempted to give effect to the democratic findings of the Constitutional Review Committee. There has been consistent adherence to a principle which we on the Government side hold to be inviolate in the total democratic process - that is, one vote one value. It is well for us again to take note of portion of a speech, which has been mentioned previously in this House, which was made by  Senator Dirkson,  a member of the United States Senate in  1965.  On this occasion he said: 
The controversy here is not between rural virtues and urban iniquity - but between those who believe that men are entitled to equal representation regardless of their position, and those who feel that certain citizens should be given a greater influence in government than others. 
We on the Government side of the House wholeheartedly support this proposition. We contend that where a person lives or what his occupation happens to be is totally irrelevant. We believe that members of Parliament represent not cows, acres, trees or sheep but people. We believe that all men should be equal not only before the law but also in making the law. 
Equality of political rights is inherent in any truly democratic system and these rights must be safeguarded by the legislature. The paramount objective of this Bill is to allow, as far as is possible at this time, equality of representation. The decision that members of this House have to make is quite a simple one. It is whether to support the democratic principle that is embodied in the Bill - one vote one value - or whether to continue to support the manipulations that exist in the present Electoral Act whereby one group in the community continues to be over-represented. Those of us who sit on the Government side of the House - included in our ranks are more representatives of country electorates than any other political party has - say categorically that the value of all men's votes should be equal, irrespective of where they live or what they do. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I should like to bring 2 matters to the attention of the House. The first  is  one that I believe will have the support of all honourable members of the House. The people involved would be regarded as a forgotten group in our community - a group which I believe could claim a sense of genuine injustice for the way in which it has been treated. I refer to those people who, for one reason or another, have to wear medical or surgical wigs. The present position is that no assistance  is  given by the Government, nor is it a matter for tax deductibility. The question may be asked: 'Who are these people who are forced to wear medical and surgical wigs?'. I point out that they include women, children and men. It  is  not a small group within our community. It would involve thousands of people. 
These people have to wear wigs for reasons which result from medical complaints. In some cases it is alopecia which, in its chronic form, results in complete baldness. Accidents, burning, scalding and so on also can cause the loss of hair. The question may be asked: Why are they a forgotten group?'. I believe this is explained in a letter from one of my constituents who wrote: 
In mitigation of the lack of consideration previously shown 1 think it is fair to say that the majority of sufferers from this handicap would find an approach to their parliamentary representative  a  little  too  embarrassing. 
The key to the reason why nothing is done  is  probably the embarrassment that is caused to those who are in this position. Surely it is natural that a young child or a woman would wish to keep this matter secret. For this reason there are no organised groups as such and they have no voice in the community. In the past the only group that has spoken out for these people has been the manufacturers of medical wigs. The sufferers of baldness, particularly the children and the women's experience, as one can imagine, countless frustrations. Often humiliation is involved and this can be relieved only by the wearing of a wig. I wish it was possible to show in this Parliament photographs that I have here of a young lad aged 6 who is completely bald, and photographs showing the lad wearing a wig. Honourable members would see what a difference it makes. The purchase of a wig means a heavy financial burden on the parents or on the person concerned. 
We should distinguish clearly between the wearing of fashion wigs and surgical wigs. They are not the same thing. The surgical wig must be made to perfect measurement and must match the texture and colour of the hair. Fashion, style or cosmetic wigs, whatever one likes to call them, do not have to conform to those same high standards. The result is that medical wigs are extremely expensive. I am informed by both purchasers and manufacturers that at present the cost is approximately $180. To allow for servicing and cleaning it is necessary to have 2 wigs. The estimated cost that I was given was that it would be $200 a year. I draw the attention of the House to an article in the 'Age' newspaper dated 22nd June 1972. It reads as follows: 
People who have to buy wigs to conceal complete loss of hair (as distinct from cosmetic wigs) are no doubt happy that the Government promised that the cost of these high-priced wigs will be tax deductible after the next Budget. It is a concession which is long overdue. Had these people been living in Britain, things would have been different. More than $3m is spent each year by the British government on supplying wigs free on National Health Service to people whose doctors consider they need them. Each patient, as here, has to have 2 wigs. They are made of human hair and cost about $100 each. In Britain the State also pays for the periodic cleaning. 
Two points emerge from that article. The first is the promised concession of tax deductibility for 1972-73 which did not eventuate. The second is that the British Government not only supplies medical wigs free but also pays for periodic cleaning. 
I submit to the House that as a first step we must make medical wigs a tax deductible item. To prevent abuse, this may necessitate the presentation of medical certificates as evidence that the people receiving the relief are in fact purchasing medical wigs. For the future, I sincerely hope that the Government will go much further and that wigs together with many other items that are prescribed for medical reasons, such as spectacles and false teeth, will be included in a comprehensive national health scheme. 
The second matter that I would like to bring before the House relates to education and concerns my own State of Victoria. I am particularly concerned about a number of matters where there has been a failure by the State Government to spend money that has been made available to it by the Commonwealth. In the first year of the triennium of the Commonwealth libraries program the Victorian Government claimed only $500,000 out of the possible $2,300,000 that was available to it. In my electorate 2 schools on the short list in 1971 wei e promised emphatically that they would get their libraries in 1972. They are the Doveton High School, of which I was a member of the staff at the time, and the Noble Park High School. Throughout 1971 nothing took place. In 1972 - an election year - they were promised that there would be action. But I would highlight the point that those 2 schools in my electorate should today have the advantage of a Commonwealth library. 
Another area in which Commonwealth money has been made available and not used as quickly as it should have been is the area of technical training grants. In the first 20 months of this program we find again that the Victorian Government failed to use all the money that was available to it. During this period $3. 5m which could have been claimed in fact was not claimed. Again I am concerned from a personal point of view. I live in the city of Dandenong. On visiting the Dandenong Technical College recently I was told by the principal that the college's most urgent need - the  children at this  college have 13 portable class room buildings - is a middle school complex. A technical training grant would be applicable to that area. The information that the college received is that the money is not available. At this stage $3.5m from the Commonwealth Government remains unclaimed. I know that  Mr Thomp  son in the Victorian Government will eventually take this money from us. I do not doubt that, but the fact remains that this money should have been used when it was first made available so that the students could now be getting the benefit of it. In this regard I would point out that it is rather hollow to promise that $62m is to be spent on education when one queries whether the efficiency of the Victorian Government will allow that amount of money to be spent. One also feels that it is a little hollow to promise one year's kindergarten training when in fact this was one of the issues we took to the poll on 2nd December. 
I rise to support the Bill. The 3 major areas in the Bill - financial assistance to needy and destitute tertiary students, increased grants for libraries in colleges of advanced education and provision for increasing training facilities of social workers - have already been referred to in the debate. Each of these initiatives is significant in its own right and I believe the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  is to be congratulated for the speed with which he has acted to meet the emergency situation in each of these areas. The underlying principle of all 3 points is to ensure that an education of quality is available to all students at the tertiary level, irrespective of financial circumstances. We on the Government side are committed to the principle that no student should be deprived of his educational opportunity because of hardship. 
I refer firstly to the matter of financial assistance for needy students. As outlined by the Minister in his second reading speech, $3m is to be made available to assist needy tertiary students and, of this amount, $806,000 is for students attending colleges of advanced education. I believe there are a number of significant points in this area of the 3 Bills we are considering. There is a considerable flexibility in administration of the assistance. It should be noted that assistance can be given in 2 ways - either in the form of grants or of loans. Within the provisions of the Bill it is the Vice-Chancellors or the heads of colleges of advanced education who have been entrusted with the task of deciding to whom assistance should be given. In fact, as we know, anticipating the passing of this Bill, this task has already been completed. I believe this Bill also provides an excellent example of decentralised or localised decision making. It is a co-operative venture in which the Government has complete trust in the ability of those on the spot to make the final decision as to who should receive aid. This no doubt is an important contributory factor in the enthusias- tic response to the scheme by the university authorities. 
It should be noted, I think, that there is a significant departure in this Bill in the manner in which the Government's financial assistace to students is to be given. So often in the past assistance has been given by means of scholarships. This has been so particularly at the tertiary and higher secondary levels. The criterion used to determine the successful student has been the ability to pass an examination - frequently, I would suggest, an outmoded type of examination. In the case of this Bill, the criterion that has been established is need. Under the guidelines of the legislation, financial assistance must first be given to those in greatest hardship. This area of the Bill, again, must be seen in the total context of the Government's announcement that tertiary fees are to be abolished as from the commencement of the 1974 academic year. So, it naturally is anticipated that need for assistance of this nature will not be as great in the remaining years of the 1973-75 triennium. 
I stress that we on the Government side see this as simply a further step towards the ideal of equality of opportunity for all students at the tertiary level. We readily admit that there is a long way to go. We acknowledge the point made by the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  that students who wished to enter tertiary institutions this year and could not for financial reasons will not be covered by this Bill. However, I would remind honourable members that at present the Commonwealth Department of Education, in conjunction with the Australian Union of Students, is carrying out a survey in Victoria and South Australia to determine the reasons for rejection by students of university places. One of the pertinent points to which an answer is sought is the importance of financial considerations in influencing potential students to reject places at tertiary institutions. 
I would stress again that this Bill is seen only as a step in the direction of achieving the ideal of equality of opportunity at the tertiary level. In this regard and based on a fair amount of experience in the educational field, it is my belief that the students who reach the higher school certificate or matriculation level tend to follow a fairly predictable socioeconomic pattern. The group about which I am concerned is the significant number of students who drop out at forms 3, 4 and 5 because of financial pressures in the home. To illustrate this point, I recall vividly a brilliant young form 3 student who indicated to me that she would be leaving school at the end of the year. Recognising her undoubted ability I questioned her on her reasons for leaving at such an early stage.  Her  reply was a simple one. She said: 'I have to help mum and dad on the flower farm. They cannot afford to leave me at school'. To achieve fin'ally the ideal that we are seeking - equality of opportunity for students at the tertiary level - these are the sorts of problems with which we must come to grips. I believe that the provisions of this Bill are a significant step in this direction. 
I should like to speak briefly on the provision contained in the Bills to provide an unmatched grant of $Sm for libraries in colleges of advanced education. There seems to be general agreement amongst speakers on both sides of the House that this provision is long overdue. 1 would remind honourable members that recommendation 21 of the third report, that for 1973-75, of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education states: 
That the Commonwealth Government provide a sum of $5m to be made available to the States on the basis of need and on the advice of the Commission, for the development of library materials in Colleges of Advanced Education. 
It surprised me today and last night in the debate on this point to hear Liberal-Country Party members saying that they supported this provision. The previous Liberal-Country Party Government rejected this recommendation. One might well ask why it rejected it. The former Government must have realised - its members are realising it now - the tremendous need that existed in the colleges of advanced education for greatly improved library facilities. Surely those honourable members were aware of the serious handicap to students if library facilities were not adequate. The answer may well be the indifference of the previous Government. Whatever the reason, the facts are that as in the previous 2 triennia the Liberal-Country Party Government was prepared to make available, as unmatched grants, the sum of only $500,000 for the 1973-75 triennium. In addition it said it would make available up to $lm subject to matching arrangements with the States. The provision of an unmatched grant of $5m will greatly assist colleges of advanced education to have library resources in keeping with the status of the studies undertaken in these institutions. 
The third area of the Bill on which I comment is the provision for increased training facilities for social workers. I believe this must be seen in the context of the Government's forward looking social security policy. The Government's progressive policy will be retarded unless immediate attention is given to social worker training in universities and colleges of advanced education. Increasingly in our community there is recognition of the tremendously important role to be played by social workers. Enlightened and concerned municipalities and other institutional bodies have recognised the need for expertise that comes from training. Too frequently, through shortage of qualified applicants, nonprofessional welfare staff has to be appointed. To realise the severe shortage that exists in this field of training social workers, one has only to look at the classified advertisements. In Victoria each week in the 'Age' classified advertisements, there appears a long list of unfilled appointments in every area of human need. To name but a few, social workers are required for work in hospitals, in the field of geriatrics, in child care, among the migrant community, in local municipalities and in Commonwealth and State Government departments. These weekly lists of unfilled appointments are testimony of the need for increased training facilities. 
There are 2 areas in which I have been involved personally and where I am convinced of the importance of the work of trained social workers. I am equally aware of the acute shortage that exists at present. These 2 areas are at the local government level and in schools. At the local level the social worker can provide that human contact which is so essential in any welfare program. Close to the grass roots, they can mobilise the voluntary organisations already in existence, they can initiate new programs, and act as the pivot in the development of local social welfare complexes which may well include welfare, officers, youth co-ordinators, home help services, meals on wheels services and so on. Many local councils have shown a diffidence to the appointment of a trained social worker. I know this only too well, having been involved deeply in trying to secure such an appointment for the city of Dandenong. The following sorts of questions are encountered: Are not voluntary services enough? Do we really need professionals? If we approve an appointment can we secure a social worker? Who will foot the bill? Not only must local authorities be convinced of the need for such appointments - often this is difficult as I well know - but they also must be sure that the Federal Government takes the matter seriously. The provisions of this Act demonstrate clearly the high priority placed by this Government on the work of the social worker. 
The other area on which I want to concentrate is psychological and guidance services, and I will confine my remarks to the Victorian scene. I think the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  would agree with me in regard ito the tragic plight of psychological and guidance services in that State. Amongst the psychological and guidance services, the social worker plays an important part. I think this is highlighted in the report issued by the Minister for Education in 1971-72. The section of that report which deals with psychology and guidance states: 
The Branch is at present only able to provide minimum services to schools. It is very dependent on temporary employees (36 per cent of the professional staff). It needs at least 400 fully qualified and experienced guidance officers, together with perhaps 200 social workers, to be able to provide a comprehensive service to existing schools. 
Later the report states: 
There is an urgent need to increase the number of social workers employed as professional officers beyond 5 as at present. 
I do not think the honourable member for Mallee should be surprised that he has had difficulty in having a social worker called to a school. I am personally aware of this sad state of affairs. For 6 years prior to entering this Parliament I was in charge of large secondary schools and that mythical thing called discipline - possibly a more apt term would be 'guidance' or 'counselling' - and there were numerous occasions on which I had reached the point with a student where I knew he or she had a deep rooted problem and I was unable to proceed further. What I needed was to be able to call in an expert or, better still, to have a trained guidance officer on the staff of the school and to be able to call on the services of the social worker who would have the ease of movement into the home, which is often very difficult if one is a teacher at a school. 
In his second reading speech the Minister emphasised the urgency of the social worker training program. The Bill provides, for the current triennium, unmatched grants totalling $75,000 for the University of Sydney and $240,000 for the University of Melbourne to enable these universities, commencing this year, to increase the number of students being trained as social workers. In the case of the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education, an unmatched grant of $40,000 is provided to enable the establishment of a postgraduate course in social work to commence in 1974. The provisions of this Bill indicate that what the Government can do now, it will do. Immediate finance is made, available to overcome the long neglected social worker need. The appalling neglect of the previous Government in this area is clearly apparent. There has been nearly a quarter of a century of inertia and ineptitude. The previous Government failed to discern the red lights of emergency. The result is a backlog of social claims. What government would not stand condemned if it failed to provide a defence force commensurate with the contemporary military strategy and technological advances? A government should be condemned also for failing to provide the facilities for the training and equipment of professional task forces to combat the attacks of family maladjustment, social disintegration, emotional disorder and urban pressure. 
These Bills support the social welfare concept of this Government's policy. They undergird and give practical support to facets of the health and social security program. The Government has a total program. Ministers are not operating within a vacuum. Government legislation is rational and consistent with overall policy. What value . is health and social security legislation if it cannot be implemented because of lack of professional expertise? Conversely, a program of financial assistance in the field of education to provide training facilities is a waste if social welfare lacks vision and planning. The ministries of Education, Health and Social Security are working in the closest co-operation, with Education providing the tools. I commend the Bill to the House. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, relates to the report prepared by the Australian Universities Commission and the Australian Commission on Advanced Education which was tabled in the Parliament last week and in which it was suggested that a university should be situated in the vicinity of Dandenong. When was the Victorian Government asked for detailed information regarding its proposal for a 3-campus country university? Was this information supplied? Has Victoria proposed at any time that Victoria's fourth university should be sited in the eastern part of Melbourne with branches in country centres? 
I rise to support the Bill. I do not share, and we on this side of the House do not share, the alarm expressed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  1 believe that it is abundantly clear to those with an eye to see that in the Bill there are no disincentives to immigrants from Great Britain. It is a figment of the imagination for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to imply that there is something inherent in the Bill which suggests a move towards republicanism. He speaks of double standards and uses other similar cliches. I rise to support the Bill. I believe that it observes not only the machinery of wise and impartial legislative procedures but also the necessary and contingent provisions for an Australian citizenship which, through the evolutionary processes of our history, indicate a course of action free from discrimination. In using the word 'discrimination' it would be unfair and unjust to accuse ourselves of deliberate prejudice. It would serve little purpose to castigate ourselves or our forebears for actions taken under the influence of different times, conditions and the national and international tempers which were then prevailing. Let us remember that it was within our lifetime that the status of the Australian citizen was created in law. The principal Act has since been variously amended. It is essential and appropriate at this unique point in our history that it should be further amended. The amendments proposed are not violations of early rudimentary concepts. They are clear recognitions of sociological change and national adulthood. 
It becomes apparent as one shares with migrants their hopes and their aspirations that all but a tiny minority - I submit that such a minority can be found among the old as well as the new citizens - contribute energetically and effectively to the nation's work force. They are acutely aware of the problems and responsibilities of governments. Who more than these in our society see the need for better housing, better welfare provisions, better health and better planning for the future? They have a stake in the future. Their decision of confidence in Australia's ability to compass the needs of the late 20th century was made long ago in a distant land. The decision to emigrate was primary, but it was also one of extraordinary turbulence and disturbance. Any subsequent exploration into the possibility of citizenship status brings with it the complex and emotive considerations of previous loves, loyalties and ethnic attachments. They cannot, and I say they should not, be eradicated by the insensitive and harsh demands of public renunciation. 
It is at this point that I would comment upon the Bill's intention - I stress the word intention' and not the sorts of things that were drawn out of it by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition - to omit references to other allegiance. The Minister for Immigra tion  (Mr Grassby)  has already carefully pointed out that renunciation of former citizenship serves no legal purpose. We, that is the Government, cannot determine either loss or retention of former citizenship. It is entirely a matter for the governments of the countries concerned. On practical grounds alone the omission of renunciation requirements is both logical and consistent. There is, however, another factor - again I stress it - and it is the human factor, one that seemed to be lost sight of by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Early environments, influences and traditions ate the undergirding factors of a'l human life. It is not only inconceivable but also manifestly foolish to make a demand up..'/; citizenship which virtually sets at nought a:l that is strong and tender in previous life and circumstance. Renunciation destroys the past and mocks at memory. 
A nation which has come of age, which has confidence in its future and has successfully emerged from the shadows of colonialism neither requires nor will accept such a sacrifice. Australian citizenship must always be preserved and solidified by its highest common factors. These include reasonable and uniform periods of residence, good character, knowledge of the language, rights, privileges and duties of citizenship and an honest intention to make Australia a permanent home. Such qualifications, we believe, are essential and would commend themselves to all people of integrity. Surely there can be no other requirements than these. We would expect that all previous attachments and loyalties, far from being in conflict with Australian citizenship, would illumine and strengthen it. 
The Bill repudiates the negativism of renunciation. It clearly and confidently emphasises affirmation of allegiance Whilst on the subject of the oath or affirmation of allegiance it is worth stressing that it is to the Constitution of Australia 'hat allegiance is to be sworn. 1 believe it woui-1 be tragic if this provision were misunderstood. Australia's birth was within the framework of a great colonial empire. The British system of a constitutional monarchy with its centuries of continuity was naturally and inevitably passed down to its colonial peoples. It is easy for United Kingdom settlers to accept these historical features For settlers from other countries, I submit, the issue is less clear and probably less important. The Bill omits references to 'the Queen, her he.ri and successors'. Again it would be unfortunate if this omission were interpreted as an affront to the Throne. 
It is not. I propose to show that to the honourable member if he has the courtesy to listen. There are doubtless many sentimentalists and some political opportunists who see a fox behind any traditional holly bush. 1 suggest that the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  who interjected, is such a person. The oath or affirmation clearly states: 'I will faithfully uphold the Constitution of Australia'. As the honourable member well knows, the Constitution of Australia requires full allegiance to the Throne. Although the amendment could not and does not desire to change that requirement, it does remove an embarrassing and sometimes burdening condition which affects some migrants more than others. The omission clarifies a previously confused issue. The Minister made reference to this in his second reading speech. 
Another aspect of the Bill about which I want to comment is clause 5, which is a list brought up to date of Commonwealth countries whose citizens have the status of British subjects. This clause is to be read in relation to clause 8, by which Australian citizenship is to be granted under a new and uniform set of conditions. Migrants from the 31 countries listed in clause 5 have, up to the present, enjoyed privileges and opportunities not available to migrants from other countries. The present opportunities include the process of notification. British subjects who have been resident in Australia or New Guinea for 5 years - providing no crimes have been committed which render them liable to deportation - may merely notify their desire to become Australian citizens. Registration whereby a migrant with the status of British subject or an Irish citizen who is eligible to be granted a certificate of citizenship may be granted if he satisfies the Minister This may become effective without an oath of allegiance being taken in any public naturalisation or - as the Bill now describes it - citizenship ceremony. Try as one may, one cannot find a word other than 'discrimination' to describe and assess the process briefly mentioned. All the details are to be found in part III of the Principal Act, to which I refer honourable members. 
This Bill provides for the repeal of these anomalous provisions. Satisfactory provisions are made in the Bill for a transition period. The Minister has given an undertaking that these new conditions will be carefully and widely publicised. The Government feels that this is particularly necessary, for many British migrants are under the mistaken impression that their United Kingdom background and their long residence in Australia automatically confers Australian citizenship upon them. Not only is this misconception seriously misleading but also continued ignorance of the position denies them the opportunity to identify and confirm their essentia] commitment to the country to which they have given and desire still to give their full allegiance. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was making the point that many United Kingdom settlers are under the mistaken impression that long residence in our country automatically confers upon them Australian citizenship. Ignorance of their true position has denied them the opportunity to identify and affirm their essential commitment to the country to which they have given and desire still to give their true and effectual allegiance. 
If I have earlier in my speech spoken on the non-British migrant and his second-class citizenship, it would be a serious omission on my part if I did not indicate that the interests of the British migrant are safeguarded in this Bill. He must not be discriminated against either by our laissez-faire attitude of the past or our assumptions for the future. The British migrant will reap the full benefits of the new proposals. After a satisfactory period of transition during which all shades of difference will be phased out, he will be tested, approved and finally received under exactly the same conditions as his non-British counterpart. 
If comparatively few British migrants have in the past sought Australian citizenship either by notification or registration, we as Australians have only ourselves to blame. Whilst we have, accorded non-British migrants citizenship under the official Commonwealth orders and ceremonies, we have left the British migrant to be welcomed by Good Neighbour Councils and other non-governmental bodies. Can we wonder that some British migrants have looked a little wistfully at our citizenship ceremonies and have wondered why they were not encouraged to participate in an oath or affirmation of allegiance. At a time when the British Government is revising its immigration rules the British migrant to Australia expects a clear and definite revision of Australian citizenship. This Bill, which will amend the Citizenship Act, demonstrates how seriously we regard our citizenship and how warmly we welcome migrants free from the indignities of special inducements. That Australia welcomes all migrants as candidates for citizenship under common and uniform conditions for all countries will, I know, appeal to an inbuilt British sense of justice. 
The British Home Secretary,  Mr Robert  Carr, on 25th January in the House of Commons said: 
I must say that the very fact that we have announced that we are to make a review of the whole British citizenship laws is an indication that we think the time may have to come when changes will be needed. 
It is perhaps an interesting coincidence that the British Government and our Commonwealth Government have such proposals before their parliaments. Surely this is an indication of the needs of modern immigration, as individuals desire to become a part of another country within the framework of its laws and constitutions. This Bill is more than a series of amendments which seek to tidy up the machinery of citizenship law. It is a symbol of our independence and a guarantee of our nation's continued dignity. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Forbes)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware of an article in last Thursday's Age' in which attention was drawn to the emergency situation at the Dandenong and District Hospital whereby patients are being forced through overcrowding to sleep on balconies? Will the Minister, as a matter of urgency, refer these appalling conditions to the national Hospitals and Health Services Commission? 
Is the Minister for Education aware that the Government's decision to spend $188m for teacher education in the next  2i  years has aroused the wrath of the Victorian Teachers Union? The Union claims that the amount offered to Victoria is $3 3m less than the amount established by the 1969 needs survey. 
In speaking to the Supply and Appropriation Bills 1 wish to bring before the House a matter that is of great concern to me and, I believe, to the public of Australia, and that is the alarming duplication of facilities which occurs at present in our community and of course the resultant waste of public moneys. I refer particularly to the facilities within our schools which too often are not accessible to the community. Probably the reason that I am so aware of this problem is that 1 spent a great number, of years in the Victorian State Education Department. Like many others in this place, I was fortunate enough to be a member of a municipal council, and now I am involved in politics at the Federal level. So at all 3 levels I have seen the inter-reaction of what is going on. To be more explicit, I am personally shocked to know that many facilities lie idle night by night in our schools. 
Let us look at some of these. School halls in Victoria are something for which parents have had to raise money to which the Government has added a grant. Frequently the amount of money that has been raised by the parents has been from 330,000 to $32,000. What do we see when the hall is finally established? We find that it is used sparingly between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. and lies idle for all the rest of the week. One could speak of libraries. Again the same sort of story is evident. Subsidies and grants are made by the Government but money is also collected from parents in one form or another. We have the school ovals and the various site works around the school. Frequently one can only be disturbed to walk around during the weekend and note that these are not being utilised as they should be. I know that this is not universally true. I was encouraged yesterday in a tour of Canberra schools to speak to the principals and ask them this question: To what extent is the community able to use the facilities - the halls, the ovals and so on? I was delighted to hear their answer that in some cases these facilities were in use almost every night. This is the way it should be. But too often when an application for the use of the facilities is made the granting of the use of the facilities is at the discretion of the school council, the school committee or the principal. At this point the whole matter can be blocked. The gates can be locked, the libraries closed and no use whatsoever made of facilities which, I submit, belong to the community and not to any small group of people who happen to be in control of them at the time. 
I can give a classical example in this regard from my own experience when I was teaching in an area which was most certainly not a wealthy area. We faced a problem there of development of the site works. The problem was that after wet weather the grounds were thrown out of order for some 3 months. The local council purchased ground alongside and proceeded to develop several ovals. I submit that it would surely have been much more prudent for the local council to develop the site works at the first stage. There should have been &amp; spirit of co-operation abroad between local and state governments that would have enabled an agreement to be worked out whereby these facilities could have been used on the weekends by the community and through the week, 9 till 4, by the school children. I believe that these matters are pertinent to this Parliament, particularly at a time when we are considering appropriation and supply, especially since we as a government have committed ourselves to an increased flow of money to the local community. We know that there are the 3 levels of government, Federal, State and local. There is a vital inter-relationship between the three, particularly in the matter of finance. 
I submit that there is a great need for increased co-operation, co-ordination and rationalisation of what goes on at the 3 levels at present. I believe that John Citizen is entitled to a better go than he is getting at present. He has to pay his rates at the local level, he has to pay State taxes, he pays income tax and he has his hand in his pocket for his local school, even if it is a government school. I believe he is entitled to see that his money is well spent and not spent in such a way that there is a duplication of facilities already provided in the community. I believe that no country can afford to go on duplicating services in the way that we have been doing over the last 50 years. 
I put forward for consideration several proposals which I submit would lead to a saving of public moneys and in the long run would enable the provision of better community facilities. The first point I bring forward is the erection of new schools. I think at the State levels there must be a rethinking of the matter of design of schools which are being planned at present. The design must take into account the needs of the local community. Schools must be designed in such a way that the facilities that can be utilised by the community are separated so that people will not have to wander all over the schools. Facilities like libraries, meeting rooms, assembly halls, changing facilities and all these sorts of things should be .in a lockup area where separate staff could be responsible for them. 
If thought is given to planning in this way the day when we see facilities like swimming pools in government schools can como to pass. As we are going, with the wastage that goes on, I believe these plans are just dreams for the future. Secondly, I submit that in our country towns, particularly the small country towns, there is a need for co-operation between all levels of government in the development of community centres - call them community leisure centres or what you will. I have seen initial plans drawn up of such centres. The ones I have seen have no relationship to my electorate. They relate to the township of Heywood. I WaS impressed wim the fact that in these plans it was envisaged that facilities for the total community would be built on school property. Gymnasiums, changing rooms, a small theatre, a small library, a canteen, and all saenger pf (bingo which ore not present within the le$al community would be provided. 
Money for the provision of suan facilities should bo spent but esse. mb b tao tutiorial approach. It requires co-operation at all levels, from the local council to the State and right through to the Federal level. I believe the Victorian Government has indicated that it would give some consideration to provision of -special staff for all schools with such facilities. If this type of joint venture is ever to have any hope of getting off the ground it requires the backing of die Federal Government. In this connection I am encouraged to know that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  at this time is examining proposals such as the ones that I have mentioned. 
I think another area in which we must look carefully to the money that we are spending is that of Commonwealth libraries. The importance of the library in the community is an accepted fact. When the Commonwealth spends well over $100,000 for a Commonwealth library in a school we must encourage in every way possible the use of this facility not only from 9 until 4 but at night as well. This, of course, brings up problems in relation to staff and so on. But these are simple administrative problems which I believe can be overcome. I have not spoken of the older areas where the established facilities are Already provided. I believe that in these cases it is a matter of co-operation between local government, and the schools. In many cases unfortunately it will require almost reeducation before people see things in a rational manner. 
In conclusion, I wish to quote from a report prepared by  Mr Jack  Clarke, a Melbourne architect. He prepared a report on the subject of community leisure centres. I point but that  Mr Clarke  studied community leisure centres in the United Kingdom and other European countries. He makes this point, which I believe is pertinent to Australia. He said: 
Part of the answer would appear to lie in arranging for school facilities to be made available to the community in a complementary relationship to those which are community sponsored. 
In terms of land usage and capital investment this is a common-sense solution and would at least ensure a better spread of facility however thin this may be den compared with what is provided In men socially concerned countries. 
There is no doubt that tq continue on in tfes present way will lead to much wasted time, money and effort. 
I support the Bills before the House. 

 Ms STALEY  (Chisholm) (2.54&gt;- This being an appropriation dsb ato, I take tha opportunity presented by the discussion of a Bill which appropriates money to the many purposes of government to discuss the Gar.retty companies scandal, which should concern all governments in Australia. This is a scandal- unique in the sorry history of Australian company failures. It .is a tragedy which, although smaller than many of the others, is more bitter and unhappy for its innocent victims than almost all of them put together. It concerns the failure of Melbourne's so-called Garretty group of companies during the latter part of 1971. The collapse involved a number of private companies, but also took with it the savings of public investors who subscribed money to a mutual fund called Dividend Fund Incorporated. Dividend Fund was created as a company with unlimited liability, a characteristic which was aimed at allowing its directors to issue or redeem shares from day to day as the company went along. It is also a characteristic which meant that when Dividend Fund went broke, when its debts exceeded its assets, the shareholders were faced with the problem of meeting the deficiency. Such shareholders were generally not closely linked to the company or its directors, and were in most cases merely innocent, often elderly, investors who wanted a safe repository for their savings. They come from all over Australia and from overseas...... 
Having lost their life-savings' of a few hundred or a few thousand dollars, some of these innocent people are now threatened with court action if they do not contribute amounts like 8500, $2,000 or 84,500 towards the debts of the company. Despite' the obvious responsibilities which the directors of the company and its managers would 'have to such investors, they abused the trust, they engaged in dubious investment activities, they siphoned money to other private companies, they set up a round robin of company' financing and in the final analysis they simply gambled with the money in the riskiest of investments during the mining boom of a few years ago. The obvious culpability of such mismanagement, however, has been transferred to the innocent investors now facing financial ruin. As I intend to explain in the time given to me, these investors ase not only facing finan-ckd ruin but their ruin will to come extent help save the fortunes associated with tfes management of the Fund. . . &gt;. 1 will explain how the innocent investors are being asked to pay up for the deficiency of Dividend Fund Incorporated while some clever company manoeuvres may save some shareholders associated with the management of the company from paying a single cent. These privileged investors at the eleventh hour before the Dividend Fund collapse escaped their liability by transferring their holdings to a $2 company which cannot hope to meet any demands on it. And worse still, the same privileged investors in. their capacity as investors in another part of the Garretty group, actually stand to receive some of the money taken from the innocent investors. This tragic and sordid story I will now try to outline. 
Dividend Fund was one of the important public companies which acted as a fund raising front for the corporate empire of  Dr Michael  Duhan Garretty, a geologist who developed a fascination for the stock market.  Dr Garretty  abandoned his geological pursuits to seek inspiration in share price charts. Charts, as honourable members will know, are sometimes regarded as an important guide to share market performance. 

 Dr Garretty was able to convince many investors that he and his charts had the answer to share market fluctuations. The instrument of his persuasion was the so-called 'Trendex' investment service. 'Trendex,' published weekly, gave a resume of 'market action', together with predictions about further share market trends and about the movements of individual share prices. Because Trendex' emphasised its successess, and because so many Australians seek a means of investing their capital safely, it attracted a following. Not content with just telling investors what to do with their money,  Dr Garretty  decided to do it for them. 
During the early 1960s he formulated a plan for managing the savings of public investors. This involved the formation of 3 mutual funds, which are little more than investment trusts designed to pool the savings of many people into a sing'e portfolio. The idea is that the larger, single portforio can be professionally administered at the lowest cost; and that professional management of the portfolio produces the best results. The mutual funds were called Increment Fund, which was designed to provide mainly capital benefits; Dividend Fund, to provide mainly income benefits; and 
Balanced Fund, to provide a balance of income and capital benefits. The corporate structure of the mutual funds is interesting. Unlike normal companies which are formed principally to restrict capital investment to a fixed amount, mutual funds are designed to allow flexible capital structures. They allow the managers to issue more shares as they go along and to redeem shares if shareholders want to get out. The price for share issues and redemptions are fixed by calculating the whole net value of the company concerned and assessing the actual asset value of each share. Since it is normal practice for mutual funds to invest in shares which are quoted on the stock exchanges, the value of the overall listed securities can be assessed easily from day to day, and the actual prices for share issues or redemptions worked out accordingly. 
Despite  Dr Garretty's  sophisticated investment management techniques, and the help of his own 'Trendex' advisory service, the 3 mutual funds had little success. Their performance in the first half of the 1960s was not particularly impressive, and the volume of actual private savings with which they were entrusted was relatively small. But with the great share boom that gripped Australian stock exchanges in the late 1960s - the nickel boom - great public interest was focussed on the share market. The boom gave  Dr Garretty's  companies some success in the market initially, and this success was translated into a flood of public subscriptions for shares in his various funds.  Dr Garretty  was helped in the task of raising public money by mutual fund salesmen in Melbourne, who for a commission directed many small investors towards  Dr Garretty.  One such salesman, Anthony G. Pryer, was recently fined in court in Melbourne for failing to provide his victims with a prospectus. He gave them a hard sell, an application form and then sent their cheques to  Dr Garretty. 
None of the innocent shareholders to whom I have spoken were advised that they would be liable for the debts of the company. And the prospectus itself failed to spell this out. One prospectus merely described the company as an 'unlimited public company' in the context of a paragraph outlining the advantages of the company.  Mr Pryer  talked established clients out of investments like Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd and trusts like Australian Fixed Trusts into what he described as 'something better'. Thanks to  Mr Pryer  and other salesmen, net public subscriptions to Dividend Fund totalled more than $150,000 in the 1969 financial year and nearly $300,000 in the 1970 financial year. Yet notwithstanding this effective, misleading sales effort, Dividend Fund failed to keep pace with the general financial boom. It ended the 1969 financial year with assets worth nearly $8,000 less than the funds subscribed by investors. And in the 1970 financial year, the shortfall was even greater, with assets of Dividend Fund Incorporated worth nearly $160,000 less than the amounts subscribed by public investors. So much for professional management. I seek the leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard 2 tables setting out the financial affairs of the company. 

<graphic href="084131197305293_28_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="084131197305293_28_1.jpg"></graphic>

All the Garretty funds' bad results continued during the 1971 financial year, and things got so bad that the company stopped paying dividends and eventually had to refuse to redeem shares of investors who had had enough. Shortly afterwards Dividend Fund and the whole Garretty group collapsed in a flood of headlines and with more than 15 companies being placed in liquidation - total losses approaching $3m - and  Dr Garretty  going bankrupt personally with a deficiency of $179,000. This grandiose corporate empire which was going to make everybody rich was less than a damp squib. It was a sort of corporate submarine. When the Garretty paperwork hits the fan, as it were, all sort, of facts begin to emerge. 
It is now clear that the Dividend Fund had not really been investing much in stock exchange securities after all. It had done so until the end of the 1968 financial year but by the end of fiscal 1969, the proportion of the company's funds in listed investments was down to 80 per cent. By the end of 1970 vear it was down to 46 per cent. And by the time the liquidator got to the sinking skip. Dividend Fund Incorporated had 2.3 per cert - less than one-fortieth of its assets - invested in shares listed on stock exchanges. 
Think of it. The company had been raising hundreds of thousands of dollars of public money to invest in the stock exchange, and by the time of its collapse 2.3 per cent of its assets had reached the market directly. A lot of it, of course, reached the market and was lost in the market through the Garretty round robin. Where had the money been invested? The vast bulk of it had been sunk into other private Garretty companies, and through them into share market speculation. Using a syphon shaped like a cheque book,  Dr Gar.retty  and his professional fellow managers had arranged for Dividend Fund to lend nearly $640,000 to four other Garretty companies. In the liquidation, one which got $288,000 was expected eventually to repay 20c in the dollar to Dividend Fund. Another which got $143,000 was expected eventually to pay back 10c in the dollar. 
But the most dazzling result of all came from another company which received $188,000 from Dividend Fund, and which was expected to be able to repay 4c in the dollar. Even - some of the investments which Dividend Fund made in normal shares were curious, to say the least. This enterprising little company, which was looking for income return on its investments, bought Poseidon shares at $95. Poseidon shares are now worth less than $10 and have yet to pay a dividend. It bought shares in other Garretty companies. And it even bought shares in a highly speculative exploration company - 'Barewa Oil and Mining No Liability - whose promoter vanished after the stock exchanges refused to list the shares and just before an official government investigation was launched into the company's affairs. Dividend Fund seems to have wavered m its prospectus' promise to invest in the stock exchange and seek income producing investments. Dividend Funds 1969 annual report notes Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, Hamersley Holdings and Mount Isa Mines as 'among the more important holdings of DFl' without pointing out that at that time it held only 410 shares in BHP, 80 in Hamersley Holdings and 520 in Mount Isa Mines. 
Of course stock exchange investments go down in value as well as up, and the Garretty directors must have thought it better to have fixed investments like advances to their own companies than nasty old stocks and shares. The Garretty directors also found it better and cosier to lure shareholders funds with their own dubious valuations of non-listed investments, including some in their- own companies. Never mind the hapless public investors who had trusted Dividend Fund with their money. 
One of the strange features of mutual funds is that they have unlimited liability. Unlike normal companies which restrict the liability of shareholders to the face value of their shares, in unlimited liability companies the shareholders are liable for all debts of the company. This would have been all right if Dividend Fund did not owe any money. But in the round robin of cheques which bounced around the Garretty empire, Dividend Fund had borrowed money. While it was investing all those loans in other Garretty companies, it was also borrowing from yet another Garretty company, and this time mainly one of the other mutual funds - Increment Fund. Increment Fund loaned nearly $120,000 of its public money to Dividend Fund. And when Dividend Fund collapsed, it still owed this money and had to pay it back. Worse still, the shareholders who had lost everything are faced with the demand to pay it back. Let me reiterate. The money comes in from the public; it is lost by the bizarre management ideas of the Garretty group; and because of the unlimited liability of the Dividend Fund structure, the same public investors who subscribed the money now have to put more money into the company to meet debts which Dividend Fund ran up. 
Now let us turn to what I shall call the Hopewell caper, which is named after a little company called R. Theo Hopewell Investments Pty Ltd. Hopewell is a $2 company with limited liability. Shortly before Dividend Fund collapsed several shareholdings - amounting to around 100,000 shares - were transferred from private individuals to the Hopewell company. This automatically transferred the liability of the individuals to meet Dividend Fund's debts to that company. And since Hopewell had only $2 paid-up capital it provided a buffer against the calls which must be made on Dividend ' Fund shareholders. Who were the shareholders who so cleverly transferred their investments to Hopewell, and who presumably miss out on liability? Tks records indicate that they were closely associated or related to a Melbourne business man,  Mr Alan  Prebble By aeon.  Mr Dyason  was a director with  Dr Garretty  s2 the Garretty company which managed Dividend 
Fund. Again I seek leave to have an outline of this matter incorporated in Hansard. 
The Hopewell Caper Connections 
Just before Dividend Fund Incorporated is placed In liquidation, R. Theo Hopewell Investments Pty Ltd becomes holder of 104,534 shares. 
These include two major holdings: 44,559 in name of Miss F. L. Kelson 50,000 in name of  Mrs G.  N. Billings, and two smaller 8,975,  Mrs G.  B. Stevens. 1,000,  Mrs E.  F. Dyason. 
Kelson and Billings are partners with the Dividend Fund Management Co. Director, A. P. Dyason, in a mortgage held over R. Theo Hopewell Investments Pty Ltd. 
Stevens and Dyason are also partners in the mortgage partnership, and are linked with Dyason by marriage (in one case) and in other companies. 
Billings is a foundation Director and shareholder in the Dyason family company, Dyason Investments Pty Ltd, which is also in liquidation.  Mrs Billings  is believed related to  Mr Dyason  directly. 
Kelson, Billings, Stevens and the Dyason family (including two family investment companies, Dyason Investments Pty Ltd and Kunyung Investments Pty Ltd) are shareholders in Increment Fund Incorporated, with total holdings direct and indirect of at least 262,000 shares. 
Therefore: Kelson, Billings, Stevens and Dyason Interests use R. Theo Hopewell to avoid unlimited liability obligations in Dividend Fund. But as Increment Fund shareholders they will benefit when Dividend Fund repays debt to Increment Fund. 
-I am encouraged to hear the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  endorsing the points put forward in amending the Commonwealth Teaching Service Act. As outlined in the second reading speech by the Minister, the amending legislation covers 5 principal points. They are special superannuation arrangements, book and equipment allowance to Commonwealth Teaching Service students, the repeal of regulations affecting female officers' absence from duty due to pregnancy and child birth and finally the provision of special educational duties in respect of members of the Commonwealth 
Teaching Service. These provisions in the Bill are matters of machinery which, although practical and essential, would be hardly likely to raise issues of policy or to excite debate on future educational development or philosophy. I desire therefore to address myself to the amendments proposed to section 4 of the Commonwealth Teaching Service Act and to the extension and expansion of the service which is made possible by the definitive roles of what the Act describes as 'teaching duties'. lt may be remembered that in my maiden speech on 6 March this year I made reference to the need for comprehensive and specialist services. In the debate on the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill on 3 May I cited in detail examples from my own experience as a secondary school teacher in Victoria. 1 reminded the House that teaching duties are not to be seen as filling a human vacuum with structured facts and tabulated knowledge. On both those occasions I sought to make a plea for the student as a whole person and to recognise the child's total existence inside the school and out of it. My support of this Bill is therefore consistent with the views that I have espoused in the short time that I have been a member of the Parliament. It was particularly encouraging to hear the Minister speak in his second reading speech of the teaching force of the Commonwealth Teaching Service becoming hopefully a laboratory for new and valid educational ideas. The Commonwealth Teaching Service is, I believe, destined to play a significant pace-setting role in what may become a series of controlled experiments in functional education. 
Although the Service reveals itself as an efficient and in some respects a unique organisation in the Australian Capital Territory, it would be unfortunate if Australia failed to recognise the responsibility of the service in what has been in the past an educationally complex condition in the Northern Territory. Furthermore, the general needs of our native people- in particular, the Aboriginal child- have, I believe, at long last made their claims upon the consciousness and sense of justice of all progressive Australians. The Commonwealth Teaching Service is responsible for the education of large numbers of Aboriginal children. Language and communication difficulties are legion, to say nothing of the long neglect of ethnic, cultural and environmental considerations which constitute a challenge to educators and sociologists alike. Neither can we ignore the claims which seem likely to be made upon us in the not too distant future regarding secondary and technical education in Papua 
New Guinea. These factors also indicate the necessity for an increased diversification of teaching skills and supporting ancillary services. The CTS must therefore, be able to develop facilities for programs of research designed to meet the exigencies of technological and ecological change encountered not only in the urban life of Australia but also in the widespread areas under Commonwealth administration and control. 
The report of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission tabled in the last session of Parliament, commenting upon the devolution of responsibility, is at pains to point out that the Australian Government has a supplementary role to that of the States. It does not favour a national bureaucracy being further removed from the schools than are the States administrations. The report does, however, stress that 'the Australian Government's responsibility may become increasingly important in ensuring an adequate level of resources and their equitable spread '. In the same report 's section headed Diversity', it recommends stimulation among teachers and community in a search for more appropriate social and individual forms of learning and relationships. 
In an article in the 'Canberra Times' entitled The Role of the Commonwealth Teaching Service',  Mr W.  J. Weeden, then Acting Commissioner of the Commonwealth Teaching Service wrote: 
Schools in the A.C.T. will be unlike any other government schools in Australia. Their governing boards or councils will include representatives of the community, of parents and of teachers, and perhaps also nominees of the Education Authority itself. 

 His comments are in accord with the findings of the Karmel report.  Mr Weeden  's words unlike any other government schools' have a challenging and prophetic ring about them. If the Schools Commission's  report is  implementedtonight, we heard that its provisions are to be implemented- the word 'unlike' may at least in this respect be changed to 'like'. In other words, the development of a participating community together with an adequately trained and skilled group of educationally professional specialists will become the norm for every school, both within the purview of the Commonwealth Teaching Service and beyond it to the State schools and associated specialist services. In the meantime this important amendment of section 4 of the Act enlarges the scope of the Service itself and can- and I believe will- form models and pilot operations which the various States can use in their own assessments and planning. Whilst traditionally, and in prospect, the responsibility for education lies with the States, the enlargement of research and experimental facilities within the Commonwealth Teaching Service offers unprecedented opportunities to initiate and implement change towards a contemporary educational achievement. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I support the statement made by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  a statement which can be described as historic. It is a statement with which I, as a member of the Government Party, am proud to be associated. This is the first time that an Australian government has stepped into the area of city development by direct budgetary allocation. By this act a significant thrust has been made into the area of city development. This thrust will reflect greatly on the quality of the lives of people now living in the cities and those who will live in the cities in time to come. 
As one who represents an outer suburban area which is possibly the most rapidly developing area in Melbourne - I refer to the electorate of Holt - the statement has great significance not only to me but also to all people who live in that electorate. It is not a case of encouraging people to live in this south-eastern corridor. Rather the exercise should be seen as a constraining one of ordered development. To illustrate this, the figures for estimated future growth show that Melbourne could have a population of something like 4.5 million by the year 2000. Of that number, and taking into account present proposals for development, it is estimated that the south-east sector of Melbourne will need to accommodate close to one million people. If this is the case there will be greatly increased pressure on the Dandenong Ranges, the Mornington Peninsula, Westernport Bay and other areas of environmental, recreational or ecological interest. These already are matters of considerable concern to Victorians. 
So it is very important that a government should look critically at this situation and be prepared to back what it says with money to ensure that the sort of development which follows takes place in some planned manner. As I see it there are 3 ways in which development or urban planning can take place. Zon.ning is one method that has been used on many occasions. We are all familiar with this. In this method areas are set aside as residential, commercial, industrial and rural areas. The lessons of history teach us that in time these zones are changed because of inevitable pressures which are applied, whether the zoning was for residential or industrial purposes. For one reason or another what was a rural area or a recreational area is rezoned and the result is the great urban sprawl which we have in Melbourne and Sydney at present. 
The second method that can be used is for a government or government authority to acquire large tracts of land and then for planned development to take place so that land for open space as well as for residential, commercial and industrial uses can be set aside. This is planned development from the beginning. Of course, the prime example of what can be done using this method is the national capital, Canberra. Much of the new cities program that was outlined by the Minister utilises this method. The third method is for the Government to acquire land for open space, even if some of this continues to be used for farming, and in conjunction with the development of residential, industrial and commercial areas, acquire land, sustain a balance in the development and still be able to stop the city sprawl. It is in this way that I interpret the Minister's remarks in his statement regarding the south-east corridor. 
I should bring before the House the actions of the Berwick Shire Council which has shown great foresight in planning. Acutely aware of the problem of very rapid development in this south-east corridor and determined to stop a city sprawl, the Council employed its own planning consultants. This enabled it to carry out extensive feasibility studies. One could well question why a shire council should be prepared to spend the amount of money which this Council has spent. Of course, the answer is that what it which is in the area at the moment is not wants to ensure is that the beautiful land ruined and that there is constrained and planned development in this corridor which extends for some 37 or 40 miles from Melbourne. There could be some buffers of green space covering a mile or so in addition to the green wedges provided for in the overall planning of the Board of Works. This proposal more closely approximates the second method which I mentioned earlier and I would personally agree with the use of this sort of method in this area, if it could be done. However, it must be stated that the State governments inactivity in stabilising land prices in the area has not allowed the possibilities of the proposal to be fully explored at this stage. It is my hope that the State government will take some action in this regard so that a good look can be taken at this proposal. I was delighted to hear the Minister say in his ministerial statement: 
The Cities Commission has found that the acquisition of critical lands to the south east of Melbourne, either for recreation or for conservation and. scenic reasons, would offer the strongest available guarantee of the continued protection of the Dandenong Ranges, Westernport Bay and the Mornington Peninsula. The need for recreation land near Melbourne is particularly important, and the preservation of the Mornington Peninsula and the Dandenongs is a matter of some urgency. 
I endorse entirely that statement by the Minister. It is of tremendous significance, not only to the people living in my electorate of Holt but also to those who in the future will live in the corridor and to those at present living in the city of Melbourne. It is essential that we preserve a playground for the people of this ever-growing city. 
Honourable members will recall that in his statement the Minister pointed to the great shortage of national parks near Melbourne. On the eastern side of Melbourne the nearest one is at Wilson's Promontory, some distance from Melbourne. The moves that are being made by the Government in this regard are significant. For that reason I believe that this is an historic statement. We have moved into a new field and a new area. It can only reflect greatly on the quality of life of the people who live in our cities and, as we know, they represent the vast majority of the people in our country. I commend the statement to the House. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Housing, relates to the problem of providing emergency housing - a serious problem in my electorate and, I believe, in other pans of Australia. Has the Government any plans to assist people faced with emergency housing problems? To what extent is it possible to use vacant accommodation in migrant hostels, such as the Enterprise hostel in Springvale, for this purpose? Where the Australian Defence Services own or rent a number of housing units in State housing commission areas - again, as is the case in my electorate - would it be possible to use them for emergency ' housing purposes when they are vacant, as I have been advised is not uncommon? 
I rise to speak in this Grievance Day debate to applaud the Government for its massive expenditure on education and to refute the arguments advanced by the vocal few - I stress the point that it is the vocal few in the community - who have criticised the Government on this point. I listened to the speech of the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  I heard him use the words such as vicious', 'discriminatory', 'brutal' and 'prejudiced'. I am astounded to find any intelligent person who can read such descriptive words into the Karmel report. Either such a person is not capable of looking at all the values on which that report is based and of looking at the full statement that is made in relation to the whole field of education, or such a person is incapable of reading the report. 
The Karmel report, a most significant document, is the basis on which Government policy with respect to education is being developed. That report in education circles and in education journals is described as the most significant document on education ever to be tabled in the Australian Parliament. I sincerely believe that it is of the utmost importance for the Australian people to keep in perspective all recommendations and aspects of that report. It is the document which provides the blueprint for Government policy on primary and secondary education. I for one am delighted with the priorities in budgetary expenditure for 1973-74. I believe that most Australians are pleased that expenditure on education is the fastest growing component in the Budget, and that $843m which represents a rise of 92 per cent on the expenditure approved last year by the former Government, one of whose members has just spoken, is provided for expenditure in this field. The provision will give education the shot in the arm that it so desperately needs. I speak as one who has come to this Parliament after 25 years experience in government schools in Victoria. 
I move to the criticism that has been made with respect to decisions affecting category A schools. Let us remember that here we are speaking of 105 schools which represent 14 per cent of the total non-systemic schools and 5 per cent of the total non-government schools in Australia. In other words, to put it more kindly, this represents 10 per cent of the Australian enrolment. I believe that a number of pertinent points must be kept in mind to answer the points made by critics of the action of the Government. As has been explained by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  these schools have the right of appeal to the Australian Schools Commission for a reassessment of their position if they can demonstrate a substantial change in circumstances since 1972, if mistakes have been made by schools in rilling in the form that they have sent in or if they believe that there is some injustice. In such circumstances a school is entitled to a reassessment. 
We must remember also that per capita grants are only part of the aid that goes to category A schools. If a category A school believes that it is entitled to capital grants, it can apply for such a grant. It is interesting at this stage to examine capital assistance given to category A schools with respect to science and library programs. I emphasise that these figures relate only to category A schools. Grants received to 30 June 1973 totalled $7,399,169. Grants to be paid from 30 June 1973 to 31 December 1974 involve an additional amount of $1,827,826, giving a total to the end of 1974 in excess of $9m. I find that my home State gets the lion's share - some thing like $4,017,000. I do not know whether that suggests that in Victoria there are more, what have been termed in the Press, tall poppies, but those are the figures. I find that in my own electorate there is one school in category A - -Haileybury College, Keysborough - which has received in capital grants an amount of $303,263. I admit that that is not a typical amount, but it gives some idea of the sort of aid that is being given. I might say that Haileybury College will be given more money in the 18 months to 31 December 1974. 
Some people are trying to introduce the sectarian issue into this matter. They accuse the Government of favouring Catholic schools. This accusation is arrant nonsense. The answer is a very simple one. The greater amount of aid is being given not because they are Catholic schools but because they are the schools which have the greatest need. This thread has run right through our whole philosophy on education. 
The honourable member knows the answer to that question as well as I do. 
Yes. A further pertinent point is that some Press reports prior to the Budget predicted that the maximum tax deductions for a child's education expenses was to be severely cut. In fact, it remained at $400. It has been estimated that the total cost to the Treasury in the next 2 financial years in respect of those who claim between $150 and $400 will be $55m. This is a greater amount than the Karmel report recommends should be spent on disadvantaged schools in the next 2 years. 
Also there are those State-righters who claim that the Australian Government wants to take over decision making in the field of education. Regrettably, the Victorian Minister for Education is in this group. He continually complains that he wants money from the Australian Government for education, but without any strings attached. There is no doubt about the constitutional position. Education is a State matter. Also it is clear that for a number of years Australian governments have been using section 96 of the Constitution to make available money to be spent in specific areas, such as secondary school libraries and science laboratories. We are merely extending that principle. I am concerned about whether the Victorian Government will be able to spend the increased money that will be at its disposal - about $134m - in the field of education. One wonders whether the cries of centralism and big brother are not smokescreens covering up for the inability to spend money. For example, one can only be concerned that the Karmel report, of which 2,200 copies were received in the Victorian Education Department on 24 July, arrived in schools on only 24 August, a month later and the last day of the term. 
This raises the whole question of decision making in the educational process. The total thrust of the Karmel report and the Government's policy is towards devolution of responsibility to the local level;- to the people who are involved in the educational process - principals, staff, parents, senior pupils and the community. What a departure this is from the present. In most of our schools the huge State bureaucratic monoliths are chiefly responsible for decision making. In this regard the Karmel report talks of 'centralised manipulation of change' and of the traditional process as imposition of new policies from above on schools across the board' and says 'the emphasis has been on the condition of the participants'. My experience in the Victorian Education Department attests to this being the state of affairs. Now the challenge is thrown out to those at the grass roots level to become a vital part of the decision making process. 
The prolonged hullabaloo of the critics about the categorisation of the nongovernment schools and the cries of the Staterighters, unfortunately, has focussed attention on what posterity probably will judge to be the least significant aspect of the report and the Government's policy. A great breakthrough has been achieved in the field of education. Although the Government has shown itself to be concerned with quantity, by far the overwhelming preoccupation is with quality and equality in education. This, I submit, represents an exciting shift in the role of the Australian Government in the field of education, 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, relates to the plan of the Berwick Council to establish a metro-town in the Berwick area. Is the Minsiter aware that it was reported recently in the Victorian Press that the Berwick Council had asked the Victorian Government to freeze land prices in the area around the Berwick township imme- diately? As the Minister is aware, the Berwick Council has carried out extensive feasibility planning in relation to a metro-town in that area. What are the prerequisites for the Australian Government to become involved in supporting the Berwick Council in its metrotown project? 
I ask the Minister for Education whether he  is  aware that the Victorian State Government has decided  to  set up a multi-campus institution  to  be known  as  the State College of Victoria  to  incorporate the existing teacher training institutions previously under the control of the Victorian Department of Education. Will the Commonwealth Government be accepting financial responsibility for the State College of Victoria? Was there consultation between the Victorian State Government and the Minister before the decision was made? Is there danger of duplication of resources  in  this approach? Would  it  have been a sounder decision for teacher training institutions  to  be affiliated either with the universities or with the Victorian Institute of Colleges? 
I rise to support the 3 Bills before the House. Some members of the Opposition have in recent days sought somewhat desperately to accuse the Government of broken promises. Despite a weak and ineffective attempt to discredit the Budget, they have found it difficult, if not impossible, to launch an assault upon this Government's imaginative and comprehensive range of welfare provisions. The care of the aged will receive much needed assistance from these Bills. All 3 Bills should be seen against the backdrop of the work at present being carried out by the Interim Committee of the Social Welfare Commission and the proposed Australian assistance plan. I refer honourable members to recommendation 11 of the annual report of this Commission which was recently tabled in this House. It states: 
During the period of development of the Australian Assistance Plan, the present Home Care program should be strengthened by the infusion of extra funds. 
This, I submit, is being done by these Bills. I wish to devote the brief time I have at my disposal in this debate to speak in support of one of the 3 Bills - the States Grants (Home Care) Bill. This Bill is further evidence of the 
Government's concerned determination to extend the provisions of the principal Act. The Act introduced in 1969 provided a good framework. The inclusion of home care services, the building of senior citizens centres and the employment of welfare officers in association with these centres could only be applauded as one of the more enlightened concepts of the previous Administration. 'Unfortunately the hopes of the previous Minister for Social Services were only partially realised. A few good ideas compounded into the structure of legislation do not necessarily ensure success. The previous Government's estimates as indicated by the previous Minister were in excess of Sim a year or $4m over the period from 1969. The figure actually expended - !$2,910,337 - is in broad terms over 25 per cent less than was promised. The total appropriations for the whole of the provision of this Bill's proposed services, given the expectation of the necessary response by the States, is in fact over $2.4m, which will catch up on the previous Government's deficiency over the last 4 years. 
The first of the Bill's provisions is to give financial assistance to a more enlightened and experimental concept of home care services. The plight of the lonely, neglected and dependent aged is now no longer a matter of conjecture. It is to be tragically observed by all who concern themselves in community welfare. The relatives of aged and aging parents know the situation at first hand. It is unfortunately true that some relatives remain callous and indifferent and fail to accept any measure of responsibility or to assume even the smallest degree of concern. It is also true that many sons, daughters, nephews and nieces, and in some cases close friends and neighbours, are often at their wit's end to meet the contingencies of a problem which is emotionally complex, sociologically disturbing, domestically difficult and economically burdensome. 
Some are forced into the position of placing their aged relatives in commercial home nursing services. Whilst it is admitted that advanced senility and chronic cases of physical and mental deterioration can, in many situations, be dealt with only in special geriatric hospitals, it is also true that thousands of patients in nursing homes at present have been placed there not because there is any evidence of insurmountable physical or mental incapability but because there is no alternative due to the inadequate and often non-existent facilities for aged people to remain in their homes. 
The provision of supporting domiciliary services regularly maintained can and should be the right of those able to retain their dignity and home independence for as long a period as possible. The home care provisions are to be shared, with certain necessary safeguards, with the State governments on the basis of two-thirds of the expenditure of the States. The increase from one-half to two-thirds of State expenditure encourages the States to expand their programs. The considerable financial adjustment in States grants invites a response from State governments which will support and consolidate the intention of the Federal Government and will cement a partnership of concern in the area of geriatric home care. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  referred to senior citizens centres. One cannot be unmindful of the value of such centres in our various communities. They have provided much needed social and recreational contact and many of our elderly citizens feel that it is a place where they can find fellowship and identity. I do, however, share the Minister's concern regarding the restrictive use of such centres and would earnestly hope that practical welfare and paramedical services could increasingly become a major factor in their development. It must be recognised that not all elderly citizens are gregarious or find that their basic needs and requirements are satisfied with club life and activity. On the other hand, useful and practical services at a central point would cater for the needs of those not necessarily seeking social and recreational stimuli. The amending Bill doubles the Australian Government's contribution to $2 for every $1 which is contributed by the State government or by a local governing body. 
Finally, I should like to comment on the amending legislation regarding the Federal Government's subsidy increase from one-half to two-thirds of the salaries paid io welfare officers. I welcome the increase and the measures taken to put this into effect. I am, however, far from satisfied with the piecemeal manner in which social workers or welfare officers are subsidised within the range of the related subjects of immigration, repatriation, social security and other social welfare needs. One municipality in my electorate is under pressure from concerned groups within the community to appoint a social worker. The areas of need cover the whole range of social problems. To obtain a subsidy this municipality must, like all others similarly placed, meet the requirements and restrictions which are appropriate to the various departments sponsoring welfare programs. I am, of course, aware that other municipalities have, notwithstanding the difficulties I have mentioned, appointed social workers and welfare officers to work in the general field. I am also aware that local initiative and determination can be strongly influential factors in presenting claims for either State or Federal assistance. 
The admitted fragmentation of subsidy arrangements can provide an excuse for local authorities for doing little or nothing at all. I must, however, concede that a more integrated program of welfare services, such as that outlined in the Australian Assistance Plan prepared by the Interim Committee of the Social Welfare Commission recently tabled in the House, is likely to be much more beneficial to the municipality I have instanced. In the meantime, I am happy to support this interim measure and I eagerly await the development of the Australian Assistance Plan. The Bills now before the House constitute encouragement and expansion of services to the aged. The legislation is an excellent forerunner of things to come. I commend the Bills to the House. 
I rise to speak briefly in support of the Bill. It is not a complex Bill. Its purpose is to establish formally the Social Welfare Commission and to set out its powers and functions. It is to be a Commission composed of 1 1 commissioners. The detailed functions of the Commission are very clearly set out in the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  I believe that it is an opportune time to congratulate the Interim Committee on the work that it did. I think the quality of its work is reflected in the reports that were tabled in Parliament. These reports referred to the preparations for a comprehensive Australian social welfare assistance plan. One of the things which I think are important in this measure is that there is not to be undue haste in the implementation of this assistance plan. I think that, if we send out discussion papers to the people so that they can really come to grips with the problems at the local level in their community and then feed information back to the Commission, when the plan comes into operation it will be a first rate plan. 
The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  pleaded that time should be given for debate on reports from this Commission in future. I support him strongly in this matter. I believe that in this very important area of social welfare for the nation, particularly the provision of assistance at the local level - a concept which is a new and exciting one - it is imperative that this Parliament should give of its time. I believe there is much evidence that some of the time we take in other debates could be done without, as frequently such debates are on issues that are not worthy of debate. 
I said that the involvement of the local community in a nationally co-ordinated regional plan is an exciting concept. Stress should be placed on the fact that the program will be flexible and one in which priorities will largely be guided by decisions made at the local level. I applaud this grass roots approach. I feel it is most important in any scheme of this type if it is to measure up to what are the needs of the particular community. Planning and funding obviously must be done at the national level, but at the local level the administration and decision making regarding the actual needs of a particular community can be carried out most effectively. I believe that in this way this Parliament, through its assistance, can maximise the effectiveness of voluntary organisations, service organisations, churches, local government bodies and those bodies that are already in the field and operating. We can work in conjunction with these organisations in regionally planned councils and gain the very best in a social welfare scheme. 
As I said earlier, this is not something that should be done in haste but rather with careful planning, assessment and reassessment throughout. In this way the social welfare needs of Australia will be released from the heavy hand of centralism that for too long characterised the programs of the past Government. Too often decisions have been made in Canberra. Priorities have been determined in this Parliament with little contact at the local level and then applied across the board. This assumes that the needs of communities are the same but all honourable members know that this is not so. I know that the social welfare needs of my outer suburban electorate are vastly different from the needs of the electorate of, say, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  which is an inner suburban area. In the past the special needs of particular areas have been neglected through the rigid nature of the previous administration and the way that centralised administration or decision making took place in Canberra. The diversity of the nation's social, economic and cultural patterns in the past too often has been neglected but I believe that through this plan the problem can be overcome. 
With regionalised administration we can move into the area of regionalised decision making and here we can come to grips with the problems. During the last week's break from parliamentary sittings I became aware of problems in . my own area, including the need for emergency housing. This may well be a problem in many other areas but it is of great magnitude in my area. I believe it requires attention at the regional level rather than attempting to cope with it through municipalities, as has been done, or even on a national scale. Again I stress that in such a case the funding would, of necessity, have to come from the central government. My reason for rising to support this Bill is that I believe it places the emphasis on grass roots development while, at the same time, maintaining co-ordination at the national level. I commend the Bill to the House. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Why was the notional adjustment method of adjusting retired members' pensions, as recommended in the Jess Report, not continued by the Government for those members who will remain within the provisions of the DefenceForces Retirement Benefits Act. 
Did he say that the recent cost of living increase applied to the pensions was an interim adjustment only and that final increases to retired members were yet to be determined; if so, what did this statement mean. 
On what reasonable grounds could the surplus of $4 million be transferred to the new composite fund before the quinquennial review due in 1969 and a terminal review in 1972 determined the equity of retired members. 
It is possible to use the $4 million to be transferred to the composite fund to provide the basis of notional adjustments to retired members. 
On what premise can a member retired in 1971 be expected to exist on a lesser basis than one retired in 1973 when in the past they have contributed equally in relation to their income. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of reports of food shortages in some lines? Have these reports any validity and, if so, what are the shortages and how can they be overcome? 
I welcome the opportunity to take part in this debate on the portion of the Appropriation Bill dealing with education because I feel it is essential that the people of Australia recognise the tremendous impetus that is being given to education by this Government in both government and non-government schools. I believe that the focus of the national debates on this subject is disturbing and I think it was reflected tonight in the remarks that were made by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  in the concentration on 2 per cent of students in our schools who attend the exclusive non-government schools and the passing over of the other 98 per cent of students in complete disregard of what is going on. The honourable member accuses the Government's supporters of acting as barbarians who want to destroy excellence. I note that he is about to leave the chamber apparently because he does not want to hear what we have to say. He is now returning to his seat. 
I am pleased that the honourable member has returned. 
Yes, envy, hatred and malice from one who spent 25 years as a teacher in government schools. 
If one could better conditions and strike was the right thing to do, yes I would, and I have done so. But I remind the honourable member that one of the reasons probably why I am in this place at the present time is the utter frustration that I experienced as a result of 23 of those years when Liberal-Country Party governments were in power and the paucity of funds that came through to government schools. I believe that irrespective of what school it is, whether it is a government or non-government school, we should allow aid to pass through to where the need is. We talk of excellence. Surely we want to attempt excellence in every aspect of education and not for just the 2 per cent who seem to be the concern of the honourable member. I was very impressed to hear him talk of values. I wondered whether he had read the report of the Karmel Committee. If he had read that report he would have seen the type of values on which rest the whole of our policy and the funds that we are now talking about. When this Government took office we were faced with the gross neglect of schools by the previous Government and a backlog of urgently needed work. We needed desperately an imaginative plan and a greatly increased flow of funds into the education sector. This had been promised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his policy speech. 
In the amazingly short time of 6 months an imaginative plan was forthcoming in the report from the Interim Committee of the Australian Schools Commission. This document is without doubt the most important document in relation to secondary and primary schools that has been tabled in this place. The manner in which the Government has acted in this plan, I believe, is reflected in the estimates of expenditure which we are now considering. There has been an unprecedented increase in the flow of money into our schools, both government and non-government schools. I believe that this is reflected in comparison with expenditure on education. If we look at grants that were made to Australian Government schools we find that under the previous Government there was a grant of $40.5m for 1971-72. We anticipate the spending of $495m on Government schools in the next 2 years. 
Consideration interrupted. 
When the consideration of the estimates for the Department of Education was adjourned last night I was pointing out that there has been an unprecedented increase in the flow of money into the nation's schools, both government and non-government, and indicating that the estimated expenditure in the government school sector during the next 2 years will be $495m - a twelvefold increase. To this can be added the sum of $188m that is to be spent on the training of teachers, which is $103m more than was recommended in the report of the Special Committee on Teacher Education - the Cohen Committee - should be spent by the Commonwealth Government. In relation to grants to non-government schools again we note that the amount of money proposed to be spent by the new Government represents a great increase on that spent in the previous 2 years. In 1971-72 the previous Government spent $7 1.5m on non-government schools. The present Government proposes to spend $195m - almost a threefold increase. 
I do not believe that figures listing expenditure tell anything like the full story. What I believe to be important are the values and the philosophy that underpin the report of the Interim Committee of the Australian Schools Commission - the Karmel Committee - and in fact determines where the money is going to be spent. The sorts of values that come out of that report which we as a Government regard as important are as follows: Firstly, we believe that there should be an education of equality for all students. We believe in equality of opportunity. We differ from the Opposition in that it appears to believe, from what was said last night by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  in excellence through elitism whereas we believe in excellence through equality of opportunity. We believe that the individual differences of children must be recognised. We believe in the need to develop the total personality of the child. As I have suggested, those are the values that have determined into which areas money should flow. Those values explain why the rate of increase in fund allocation has been greatest in the government school area. Those values explain why in the non-government sector it is the Catholic schools, particularly the parish schools, which are to get the greatest assistance - not because they are Catholic but because their need is greatest. That explains why initiatives are being taken in new areas, such as in relation to the pupils of parents who live in especially disadvantaged neighbourhoods, to whom an extra $50m is to be allocated, and the pupils who are handicapped, whether physically or mentally. One could continue. There is to be a great increase in expenditure on the education of Aborigines, migrant children and isolated children. 
I believe that there is ample evidence from the money that has been allocated of the importance which we as a government place on diversity and innovation. I think that can be seen from the money that has been allocated for curriculum and more general educational development. It is my personal hope that great encouragement will be given to schools where innovation is carried out and schools where experimentation is carried out. This comes to mind, for example, in regard to the Australian Capital Territory where the schools without walls movement has been established. I think also of schools such as Swinburne Community School in Melbourne and other schools such as these in which new paths are being blazed in the educational field. It is my hope that the Government will increase expenditure in that area. I think it is encouraging to see the greatly increased amount of money being appropriated for school libraries. 
 My question, addressed to the Minister for Education, relates to money made available to the Victorian Government under the States Grants (Technical Training) Act. What is the total amount to be made available to the Victorian Government this triennium under this scheme? At this stage of the triennium how much of the total has been advanced to the Victorian Government? Has the Victorian Government been tardy in applying for this money and would this have delayed construction of buildings in the technical education field? 
'Despite the fact that international relations, foreign policy and diplomacy are, like economics, highly specialised fields of activity, they nevertheless form the backdrop against which an amateur of reasonable political intelligence feels that he has a duty and a right to enter the debate. This is both the peril and advantage of our democratic system. It is a peril because most of us have neither the experience nor the expertise to assess the situation on a broad enough basis. It is an advantage because free, open and frank dialogue at any level is the most potent and continuing force in education and communication. It is my intention to concentrate on the general area of controversy which, from time to time, rages in this and the other place. The degree of difference is, not surprisingly, reflected in the community at large, amply fed by a wide range of Press, radio and television media which is available. There is one matter of concern which I share with my colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and that is the amount of aid we propose to give to developing countries. It would be my hope that as a Government we shall reach the target set by 1975, which was the year suggested by the United Nations, and not by 1979 as is the present plan. 
I propose to refer briefly to the statement made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  in which he expressed concern in respect of the expenditure of $100,000 on the legal case put to the International Court of Justice in an attempt to stop the French nuclear tests in the Pacific. I would remind the honourable member that on that occasion we won the case and that the previous Government did nothing about such issues. This was the highest court of appeal in the world and perhaps the only regrettable feature of the whole incident was that the French failed to abide by the decision of the Court and proceeded with the tests. Criticism of the Government's handling of international affairs has a curious antiquated aura about it. Cries of outrage amounting sometimes to hysteria echoed down the corridors of the conservative Party when early in its term of office the new Government recognised the People's Republic of China as the only valid government of that country. 
Again honourable members opposite prophesied disaster when within hours of assuming control of the nation's affairs we honoured our election promise and removed the scourge of conscription for national service. They abused the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when he effected a Government decision to establish diplomatic relations with the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, the German Democratic 
Republic and the Vatican. In the light of emerging developments in the world economic and political scene, clearly discerned and plainly comprehended by the Prime Minister, would those members of the Opposition who formed this trenchant, vocal condemnation seriously suggest that they would now reverse the decisions which were made? Who from the other side would dare to campaign for the reintroduction of conscription, even amid the climate of misrepresentation and fear which has characterised the recent debate on defence, ignoring as they do the planned and streamlined policies on voluntary recruitment and career encouragement? Who apart from those in the other place, who seem to spend their time looking up the China references in the Hansard reports of the early 1950s, would fail to appreciate the more flexible and co-operative patterns of relationship which for so long have been advocated by Labor which, alongside other major powers including the United States of America, has accepted China's role in world affairs? 
The ideological catchcries of the past - the images of gigantic hordes assailing our shores from the north, although employed with a blatant appeal to naked fear prior to the general election in December by all 3 conservative parties, and having been a successful tactic during their 23 years of government - did not succeed in persuading the Australian people. They did not succeed then and they would not succeed now. The fruit of this Government's total reversal of previous policy on China is seen not only because we have adopted a new stance based upon mutual trust, friendship, and, wherever possible, co-operation similar to that which we enjoy with other major powers, but also because of the practical benefits resulting from increased trade, particularly in the areas of sugar and wheat. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  for so long a thorn in the flesh of the anti-China clique but himself a prophetic and hopeful interpreter of political realities, was able to move confidently following the decisions of this Government in respect of the People's Republic of China to establish, despite a heavy load of responsibility, a special rapport with both China's trade representatives and also with the leaders of industry here in Australia. Even the most bitter critics of the Minister for Overseas Trade would find it difficult to argue that his portfolio has not been handled with the highest degree of competency. 
However, I would strongly suggest that this would not have been possible in the absence of a new and adventurous stance in foreign policy. Australia has acted as a mature and independent nation. Hitherto she had merely yapped like a well-trained poodle behind the powerful flanks of the great Dane, the American power bloc. This Government's foreign policy is based upon the fundamental premise that Australia is worthy of a dignity and character of her own. When the Prime Minister returned from the United States of America, Canada, Great Britain and South East Asia the Opposition was quick to seize upon the few expressions of shock which followed his candid but eminently friendly indications of Australia's redefined and forward-looking strategy. The sphere of our influence during the last quarter of a century has been so subservient to powerful friends and allies and therefore so predictable that the emergence of an Australian upon the international stage courageous enough and confident enough to represent a young nation rich in natural resources and equally rich in the talents, energies and abilities of its people has, not unexpectedly, taken them by surprise. If occasionally there are some frank exchanges of viewpoint, we should not be alarmed. Rather we should value the interchange as an acknowledgment of our importance and that the leaders of the world now respect a government in Australia determined to explore every opportunity within the framework of national independence and regional and international flexibility. 
We are not hidebound by traditional methods. Events in the modern world move too quickly and with too much at stake to allow us the luxury of waiting for the big men to fly. We have shown ourselves willing to assess each emerging situation as it presents itself. We have been maligned for our handling of the Papua New Guinea issue. We have been cast in the role of the arrogant dogmatist. The recent statement by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  regarding the independence timetable clearly shows that, despite our eagerness to give an early opportunity for self-government and independence in Papua New Guinea, we are keenly aware of the need to co-operate with those whose responsibility it will be to effect the completion of the task. The Minister responsible has been commendably sensitive and co-operative. 
Perhaps nowhere has our new foreign policy and international concern been more clearly and effectively enunciated than in our recent performance in the United Nations. On 6 October the Melbourne 'Age' had this to say: 
Under previous governments Australia has occupied a grey area, declaring its devotion to UN principles but often backing off when the time came for counting the heads on specific issues. 
In commenting upon the present Australian voice in the United Nations, the 'Age' went on to say:  . . as one of the growing medium sized powers Australia can declare its loyalty and march in the front rows of the nations opposed to racial discrimination and international violence. Its world image has certainly improved in 1973. 
If the 'Age' leader is right and our world image has improved in 1973 it is because, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in a preelection speech to the people of Australia on 13 November last year: 
We stand ready to develop and carry through policies and programs which will take Australia forward to her rightful proud, secure and independent place. 
I believe that this Government will continue to carry out that promise. Where it has been necessary to act with speed and directness we have done so. Where it has been necessary to speak with clarity and frankness, we have not shirked our duty. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I have listened with great interest to this debate. The first  speaker  in the debate on the estimates for the Department of Education accused the Government of being barbarians destroying excellence in schools. We have heard of category A schools and how the Government is cutting them down because it is not giving aid to them. We have heard also a vehement attack on teachers. Let us get some perspective in respect of what has been done and is aimed to be done in the field of education through this Budget. I think it would be agreed that from the point of view of the Government the starting point - this strangely has been missing in the debate so far - is children and the opportunities open to them. As a Government we have been concerned at what the previous Government failed to do in this area. We believe that all children, from pre-school age through to university, should have every opportunity to equality in education. We believe in excellence through equality of opportunity, not excellence through privilege, which seems to be the view of members opposite. 
To get some sort of balance I believe one must look at what is aimed at in the field of education this year. In 1973-74 it is proposed to increase the allocation to universities by $123m; to colleges of advanced education and teachers colleges by $1 11.5m; to technical education by $26. 8m; to schools and preschools by $121. 3m; and to special groups - Aboriginals, migrant children, isolated children and the like - by $19.5m. Whereas the previous Government, for all its talk, was prepared to put up in cash in its last Budget $439m for education, this Government is proposing an expenditure of $843m, which is a 90 per cent increase. 
Let us consider for a moment some of the criticisms that have been thrown at the Government. There has been preoccupation with the situation of category A schools - a preoccupation with the 2 per cent of children who attend those schools and almost a refusal by members opposite to talk about the other 98 per cent of children in other schools, whether they be independent schools or government schools. The Government has been accused of cutting off assistance to independent schools, but let us examine the facts. It is a strange way to cut off assistance when the Government increases threefold the amount of money to be given to independent schools. The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  spoke of the Government's hidden plan, the one it has not yet revealed. It is interesting that no Government supporters know anything about it. Apparently the deep down plan is eventually to eliminate aid in progressive steps. We have knocked off the top group and apparently we are going to knock off the rest. What utter rubbish that is. An interesting point is that I was just glancing at a newspaper and 1 noticed that a certain bishop of the Catholic Church has made a similar statement. The honourable member for Bendigo in his speech expressed concern about category A schools, but on a quick check of the list I find that he does not have a category A school in his electorate. Therefore, apparently he is not interested in representing his own electorate. What he is interested in doing is trying to score a few hollow political points. Believe me when I say that they are pretty hollow because his facts were not even right. 
In the field of government schools, we note that in the next 2 years there is to be a twelvefold increase in expenditure. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  explained this business of resources and told us how there is a spread from something like 40 to 260. He said that the aim is to lift the resources of government schools. It was found, of course, that the Catholic schools were in the greatest need. We believe that we do not have to get down on our knees and plead to the people of Australia. We want to help the people who are in greatest need. We believe that this is what is right, and we stand by it. We are not ashamed of the fact that we believe that money should go first to where there is need. That is the way in which we have arranged our expenditure in this Budget. 
Tonight we had the astounding situation of 2 members of the Opposition making a vehement attack on teachers. They were the honourable member for Bendigo and the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke).  They have even continued their attack since then by way of interjection. 
Yes, the 32-hour week. It was said that teachers lack dedication and that they are the first out of the door, beating the pupils. I nearly said *we* instead of 'they9 because, after all, I was a teacher for 25 years. I happen to know what happens in schools. The honourable member for Petrie is in the chamber, but the honourable member for Bendigo is not. I can only say to the honourable member for Petrie that he was talking arrant nonsense when he attacked teachers in such a manner. My experience as a teacher and my experience over the last 9 years in the training of teachers is that they are as dedicated a group as there is in die communitity. I would defend teachers in any place. I find it difficult to understand why there was such an attack tonight. I can only put it down to complete ignorance because those who made it have not been in government schools. Maybe they have been in category A schools. I do not know what happens in those schools, but I do know that that does not happen in government schools - at least in my own State. 
Who is to blame for the fact that the morale of teachers has broken down considerably in recent years? Why has it happened? It has happened because a succession of LiberalCountry Party governments have simply failed to give teachers adequate training. I support the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  in stressing the importance of teacher education. We as a government agree with it. It is for that reason that we have increased greatly the expenditure recommended by the Special Committee on Teacher Education - the Cohen Committee - in its report. In fact, we have increased it to in the vicinity of $188m. I believe that the Government has everything to be proud of in what it is doing in the field of education. In every way it has set a target that is a worthy one and one which in the field of education as distinct from the Opposition benches - among teachers and members of university staffs - I know, has given new heart to people who were dispirited. For the first time education has been given the priority it deserves. 
I rise to support the Bill and to commend the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  and the Government on the initiative demonstrated in this Bill. It provides for a dramatic change in the manner of assistance and in the quantity of assistance for students. Several points were made by the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  and the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  One point in particular concerned the needs of the part time students. I would agree with much of what the honourable members said in regard to part time students. In fact, I can see this group, even at the secondary level, becoming a much more significant group in the future. I believe that it could well be that the very best thing that some students at the 15 or 16-year age level could do would be to leave school and spend several years outside of the school environment. The school system should be flexible enough to allow them to return to school and to continue with their education. Furthermore, I believe that frequently the student would be much the better if he were able to see something of the world outside for 1, 2 or 3 years before embarking on his tertiary education once he has completed his secondary education. 
Having said that, I stress that this is an area of which we as a government must be aware and which must be examined closely. As to whether those who hold awards will be disadvantaged as a result of this Bill, I believe that the Minister made it very clear in his second reading speech that no student would be disadvantaged as a result of the introduction of the proposals in the Bill. The purpose of the Bill, as outlined by the Minister, is to provide a legislative basis for the senior secondary scholarship scheme, post graduate awards, and the tertiary education assistance scheme. I propose to deal with two of these matters, namely, the senior scholarship scheme and the tertiary education assistance scheme. This Bill, together with complementary legislation, which gives assistance to students, is part of a conscious and deliberate policy of this Government to produce - these are the Minister's words - a revolution of access to education. I believe that this objective becomes abundantly clear when we examine the assistance which will be made available under this Bill to students at both the tertiary and the secondary levels. 
In terms of the amount of money to be spent on this program, it is proposed to increase considerably the amount provided by the previous Government for student assistance. The estimated cost of the proposals contained in this Bill is S78m. The benefits that will flow from this Bill will affect the lives of an estimated 125,000 students. In addition we have to see assistance being given to students at both the secondary and tertiary levels. Mention has been made already of the fact that fees are to be abolished at the tertiary level. In addition to the assistance that is outlined in this Bill, assistance will be given to the children of low income earners who are in the last 2 years of high school - I propose to say more about this later - to children living in isolated areas, and to Aboriginal children. So I believe that this Bill is another example of the major initiatives that have been taken by this Government in the field of education. 
By means of this Student Assistance Bill it is proposed to create better opportunities for students at all levels to have access to education. The effectiveness of the schemes of the previous Government was inhibited, I believe, by the emphasis that was placed on competition. It is true to say that tertiary education could be denied to a student for the sake of several marks which were not gained in the course of the student's matriculation year. As a government we are serious in our desire to provide equal opportunities for all students so that they may progress to the level of education consistent with their abilities and their aspirations. We are determined to reduce the emphasis on schemes which are based on the ability of the student and his competence to handle examinations - I would say that in many cases this has very little to do with education - and to replace these schemes with schemes in which grants are made to students in accordance with their needs. It has always appeared to me that so many relevant things which should be considered as the criteria in the determination of who should be given assistance by the Commonwealth have not been taken into account. I refer to such things as the motivation of the student and his aspirations. From my experience at tertiary level I would say that although frequently there was never any question about a student's academic ability he could have failed miserably because of his unsuitability to cope with a new type of situation at the tertiary level. 
I will now deal in a little more detail with the tertiary education assistance scheme. The proposals set out in this Bill replace the present Commonwealth university scholarship scheme, the advanced education scholarship scheme and the technical education scholarship scheme. It is impossible to debate the proposed scheme in isolation. As I said earlier, it must be seen against the backdrop of the abolition of students' fees at the tertiary level. We have made this statement so often that I think we lose somewhat the significance of what it means to individual students who are either at universities or intend to go to tertiary level institutions in the coming year. This move has great significance, and it is against this backdrop that we must look at the present legislation. Under this scheme any student is eligible for a living allowance, subject to a means test of family income. As I said before, the rates of allowance will be raised and the means test will be liberalised. The maximum allowance payable to students living away from home will be $1,400 per annum, an increase of $100 per annum. The allowance payable to students living at home will be increased from the existing rate of $800 to $850 per annum. Also the level of family income at which the maximum allowance can be paid will be lifted from $4,200 to $5,300 per annum. 
In addition to these proposals, which represent a significant departure from anything that was done by the previous Government in the 23 years that it had to act in these areas, other types of benefits will be available to those who qualify for tertiary assistance. There will be an incidentals allowance to the value of $100 a year. This will assist students to meet the cost of fees, such as for the Students Representative Council - known as the SRC - various sports fees and out of pocket expenses. In addition travel allowances will be provided for those students who are living away from home which will enable them to make 3 return trips between their home and the institution in which they are enrolled. 
I noted that, the honourable member for Chisholm stated that it was his hope that this Bill and schemes similar to this one will lead to the abolition of the iniquitous - that is my word, but I think he would agree with it - bonding system that exists in our universities, certainly in the State that both of us come from, that is, Victoria, in relation to the Department of Education. It would be my sincere hope that assistance such as this - the abolition of fees at the tertiary level and also that the generous living allowances that are provided - will lead to the time when there will not be bonding of students for the teaching services or in any other areas in which it now exists and that there will be genuine competition at the end for people who are suited to becoming teachers. This, as I see it, has often been one of the great failures in that it has been necessary for a person to accept a studentship at a university to enable him to attend the university. These people have served time in the schools for the two, three or four years that are required of them under the bond before moving out into the community. I would hope that those days are near an end. 
Under this Bill the senior secondary scholarship scheme replaces the Commonwealth secondary scholarship scheme. It is merely a change of name. The awards remain at the same level of $150 for all winners of awards plus $250 on a means tested basis, making a total of $400 as the maximum allowance. These scholarships, of course, apply in the last 2 years of secondary level. Under this Bill the number of awards in 1974 will be increased to some 48,000 scholarships. The awards under this scheme cannot be looked at in isolation; they must be looked at in conjunction with the foreshadowed legislation whereby assistance will be given to students who come from low income families. The assistance will be during the last 2 years of their secondary education. Honourable members will recall that in the Budget Speech it was outlined that the maximum allowance of $304 would be payable where the adjusted family income did not exceed $3,100 a year. 
I must confess to being one who has never been impressed in any way with the old Commonwealth secondary scholarship scheme or for that matter, the senior secondary scholarship scheme that we are speaking of in this debate. There are 2 main reasons why this is so. These awards have been decided on the results of a battery of examinations for which students sit during their fourth year. They are highly competitive examinations. This has been the major determining factor in relation to who should be given these awards. I am quite well aware of the fact that schools have some say and that decisions or recommendations of a school could have some effect, but in the main the scholarship went to the students who had the ability to deal with this particular type of test. I might say that even being able to cope with that particular type of test did not ensure that a person could cope with further education. Certainly the reverse was not true because many students who did not succeed at this sort of examination did extremely well at the matriculation level and at universities. 
That is one reason I was not impressed. It is a highly competitive examination. Secondly, there is the belief that I have always held that financial assistance should go to those students who need it most. I do not believe that this is the case with this type of scholarship. If I may speak personally for a moment from my experience, I refer to 2 schools with which I am closely associated, one a high school and the other a fairly exclusive private school in my electorate. At the high school, one in which I taught, a great number of the students came from the homes of families on a low income. In 1972, 190 students sat for the examination. Twelve were awarded scholarships. The second school, which was about four or five miles away, was an exclusive private school. At this school the same number of students sat for the examination, but there was a vast difference in the number who received scholarships. Seventy-six students were awarded scholarships in the private school as against 12 students in the Government school. There was no doubt in my mind at all as to the school at which the need was greatest. 
It would seem to be a logical thing that if a government is putting money into allowances for students to assist them in education, the major objective must surely be to help the students to complete the education that is consistent with their ability and their aspirations. This was not the case in the example that I have given to the House. I believe there is ample evidence that can be gained from comparisons that can be made in any electorate in Australia. This is supported by the findings of a survey carried out in 3 cities by the Australian Council for Educational Research. Its findings revealed that only about 3 per cent of the students who won these awards were kept at school as a result of winning them. I would personally hope that this type of financial assistance to secondary students will be phased out after 1974 and that the money that is at present being used for this purpose will be given to students of families on low incomes. This would enable the type of assistance I have been talking about to be given to the needy students, at least in the middle sections of secondary schooling and in time, I would hope, to students at all levels of secondary schooling. As stated at the beginning of my remarks, the aim of this Government is to produce a revolution of access to education. In our student assistance programs we want to remove financial barriers to all students' educational fulfilment. I believe that this Bill makes a significant contribution to these objectives. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I direct to the Minister for Immigration a question relating to citizenship ceremonies. Following the passing of the Australian Citizenship Act will the Minister consider issuing a new procedure for citizenship ceremonies to ensure that these most important occasions are given added dignity and decorum? In this connection, will the Minister also ensure that adequate advice is given on the national anthem following its selection in the new year? 
I rise to support the Bill and I am proud to do so because I am acutely aware of the greatly increased pressures that have been placed on local government. At the time of my election to this Parliament I was a councillor for the City of Dandenong and it was around that council table that I gained the experience that convinced me of the tremendous financial problems faced by the municipal government. I might add that at that time, as I remember it, the Liberal-Country Party Government was in power in Canberra. The financial problem existed then, but no money was flowing through from the Federal Government down to the local councils. Today, local councils face ever increasing responsibilities which relate to people and the quality of their lives. No longer can local governments concern themselves simply with matters of drainage, streets, kerbing and pavements, garbage collection and the like. Councils are expected - I believe rightly - to concern themselves increasingly in cultural and social welfare and recreational activities. The result of these increased responsibilities is, of course, a growing sense of frustration among councillors and community alike as they find themselves unable to find the necessary finance to bring these things about. 
I should like to speak for a moment of the municipalities in my electorate. They are situated on the fringe of the Melbourne metropolis in the south-east corridor which is the fastest growing area of Melbourne. In the centre is the City of Dandenong, a regional growth centre of some 14 square miles in which a good deal of the land is non-ratable as Australian and State government buildings are located there. To the west, the area is buttressed by the City of Springvale, a city which has had one of the most rapid rates of population growth in the State, while to the east is the City of Berwick, which came into existence only in the last few months and faces the tremendous challenges associated with a new municipality. Then there are the Shires of Berwick and Cranbourne which at this stage are chiefly rural but which are poised to tackle the problems associated with over-rapid development. It is municipalities such as these which are vitally affected by this legislation. These 5 councils desperately need increased financial assistance both in the form of grants and by having access to loans at lower interest rates. And, of course, this is just what is proposed in this Bill - to allow the people of Australia to decide whether they believe the Constitution should be amended in such a way as to allow this to happen. 
I remind honourable members opposite that this is not an isolated piece of legislation, plucked out of the air. When in Opposition the Australian Labor Party made 3 specific commitments concerning local government. Firstly, it promised, and carried out the promise at the 1973 Constitutional Convention, that direct representation of local government would be a condition of the Australian Government's participation. We remained firm to our commitment, and local government was represented. Secondly, we promised to amend the Grants Commission Act to authorise that Commission to inquire into and to make recommendations on grants to regional groupings of local government. In May, we passed the Grants Commission Act 1973. Thirdly, we promised to restructure the Loan Council so that local government representatives from all States could have a voice and a vote on that Council. In October, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  met with the Premiers to present 2 proposals. One was that elected local governments should have both a voice and a vote on the Loan Council and the other was that the Australian Government should be empowered to borrow on behalf of elected local governments. It is unfortunate that some of the Premiers would not accept the Prime Minister's proposals. Having failed to fulfil our commitment in this way, we now propose to hold a referendum on the matter. 
I believe it is important that this Bill be viewed against the total Government record on matters related to the local community. Greater importance has been placed by this Government on local involvement, initiative and interest and I believe this is clearly reflected in our legislative program. I refer honourable members to just a few fields. For example, in the field of social security, we have the Australian assistance plan. In the field of health we have community health centres and community mental health facilities. In the field of urban and regional development, funds have been allocated for public transport, sewerage and open space. I submit that there has never been a federal government which has shown such concern and interest for issues at the grass roots level. I believe that this contrasts sharply with the efforts of the previous Government. 
Yes, 23 years of nothing. I believe that brief mention must be made of the whole new range of responsibilities which were not previously associated with local governments. Today we expect local councils to provide facilities over a wide new field, such as infant welfare centres, pre-school centres, libraries, a multiplicity of sporting facilities, meals-on-wheels, family guidance clinics, open space, home-help services, social workers, welfare officers and youth workers. The list could go on. In rapidly expanding areas like mine, the full impact of the provision of such a wide range of services is felt to the full and the result, of course, is what this Government has recognised, namely, a crushing financial burden on local government and the need for assistance to be given. 
I have vivid recollections of sitting around the council table at the time of the estimates, which are handled in a rather different way from the way this place handles them. We would look at the money to be spent on the various projects and we would attempt to prune down the requirements - to things that we knew were absolutely necessary in the community - in a desperate effort to keep the rates down. But unfortunately of course this was not possible. So I took the trouble to contact all the municipalities in my area to find out what the rate increase was last year. In 1972-73 the average rise was 20 per cent. Only 2 of the councils had struck their rates for 1973-74 and the average increase for them was 22 per cent. I agree that the system of levying rates on property is no longer an adequate basis for the financing of local government; it is inequitable and totally antiquated. This method was designed for the days long ago when councils concerned themselves almost exclusively with engineering matters such as streets, kerbs and footpaths and possibly a football or cricket oval. But those days have gone and councils today are facing a tremendous and crushing burden of financial responsibility. 
Let me now turn to the broader canvas and look at some of the figures mentioned by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  I propose to repeat them because I believe they need underlining. The worsening position is clearly illustrated when one examines changes in the public debt in Australia since 1949. Between 1949 and 1970 the public debt of the Commonwealth increased by some 5.4 per cent, that of the States by 323.3 per cent, and that of local government by the huge percentage of 845.6. As was said earlier, interest liability also increased over the same period. The interest liability of the Commonwealth increased by 54.4 per cent, that of the States by 571.3 per cent, and that of local government by the gigantic percentage of 1931.8. Surely this is clear evidence that establishes the need for increased grants from the Australian Government and access to loans at lower interest rates. 
I was hardly surprised to hear from the other side the cry of centralism and the negation of State powers. I have been here only a short time, but I have grown used to hearing constant bleating about centralism. I wonder whether honourable members opposite have had a good look at what this legislation is all about. Its object is to provide a long overdue transfusion to the level of government that is closest to the people. Surely it is at this level that the needs of local areas can be most accurately assessed. Surely it is important that there should be a maximum amount of community involvement in these matters. These things are not mentioned when we hear the old catch cries about Canberra bureaucracy and the like; they are the other side of the story that is never told by honourable mem bers opposite. For years we have operated under a 3-tier system of government, which has been accepted throughout the country. It has become increasingly evident that the final tier of government is in an impossible financial position. The Liberal-Country Party Government for the past 23 years stood idly by and did nothing to arrest this worsening situation. We as a government state categorically that local government is of the utmost importance. We believe that the people of Australia should strongly support this alteration of the Constitution, which would allow us to make funds available direct to local government both by way of grants and by way of loans at lower interest rates. 
In conclusion, I believe there are 2 principal schools of thought in local government First, there are those who sincerely experience frustration within the financial limitations of municipal budgets. They believe that powers such as those sought by this Bill should be available to the Federal Government. The people in this group eagerly await the results of the referendum. Secondly, there are those who conveniently find refuge for their lack of initiative in passing the buck to the Australian Government, knowing full well that it has not the power to act in the matter. Some such councils have a majority of councillors who have clear sympathies to reactionary State governments and are often politically and philosophically opposed to the national Labor Government. If this Bill is passed, no longer will such councillors and municipalities be able to use this as an excuse for doing nothing. This Bill is one that sets out to allow the people of Australia to decide whether elected local government in this country should have access to public funds on better conditions and in a more direct way than at present. It is this Government's conviction that local government should be given this facility. I commend the Bill to the House. 
It is in support of the estimates relating to the important subject of immigration to which I want to speak. In the total reach of the new policies and programs already undertaken, and others in process of preparation and introduction which have occupied the Government of which I am a supporter, none has more incisively and imaginatively gripped the mood and temper of the nation than has the subject of immigration. In his statement to the House, the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  revealed his remarkable capabilities and the informed concern with which he deals with the many facets of the subject under review. 7 congratulate the Minister for his enlightened approach to this important subject. It would seem to me that there are 3 possible reasons to support a program of immigration. These reasons could be summarised as follows: Firstly, in order that the growth of population may ensure the numbers to defend ourselves against an invading enemy; secondly, to increase the work force so that, irrespective of vocational qualifications, jobs may be filled to meet existing requirements; and thirdly, to recognise the trust of a large and wealthy country, and to make available to all people of general integrity, irrespective of race, colour and religion, and from all countries, those who are willing to offer their talents, energies, cultures and experience to the enrichment of a creative and distinctive Australia. 
I submit that the first of these reasons has never been a laudable one. The concept of large population build-ups for the sole reason of preserving a fear-obsessed nucleus is a doubtful if not totally unworthy motive. Further, the spectre of imagined invaders has ceased to be credible - if indeed it ever was so. It is now clearly apparent that the cultivation of friendly neighbours in our region is more likely to ensure peace in our time than is the belligerence of prejudice, ignorance and rejection. The second of the reasons I have given is scarcely less worthy. The importation of labour resources without the highest regard for needs and aspirations is not only dehumanising and depersonalising, but also has within it the seeds of discontent and disruption. When pressure groups make noises for the block intake of large numbers of migrant workers - undeniably difficult though it may be to recruit from a decreased pool of unemployed persons - it is all too easy to forget the accumulation of problems which have arisen in the past from a supply and demand concept. Job vacancies filled by migrant workers with little regard for vocational qualifications, language disabilities, housing and accommodation, welfare provisions and adequate eduational facilities for their families, is to create such additional problems as would far outweigh the temporary stopgap policy of manning the assembly lines and filling the less-popular and often lower income vacancies available. 
In 1972 Australia received 112,468 settlers. Settlers returning and residents who left Australia plus the substantial total losses of our total long-term movement and total short- term movement numbered a staggering 84,846. Hence our net gain in 1972 on total overseas movements was only 27,846. The figures manifestly speak for themselves. Jobfilling working bodies from overseas do not produce settlers into our country; they produce only temporary working guests - and often disillusioned and unhappy ones at that. The Minister's well-researched and forward looking statement not only points up the difficulties but also offers practical proposals and provisions on a wide range of serious problems previously encountered. If I could return for a moment to the third of the reasons I advanced for support of an immigration program, it would seem to me that it is the only moral and valid reason. It is also the only workable one. I suggest that given a prosperous and wealthy nation, all people of integrity from any nation should be available for selection providing that they are willing to offer their abilities, talents and cultures in return for the services and benefits which a creative Australia offers to those who sincerely desire to make our country their permanent home. 
The Budget estimates provide for an intake of 110,000 migrants - and this is a moderate figure, as is the expenditure, being an increase of only $4m. However, the program includes a variety of low-cost but eminently effective measures that are designed to correct many of the weaknesses of the past and, equally importantly, to plan constructively for the future. I intimated that I would comment briefly on just a few of these supporting features. More than most countries, we must be concerned with the problem of integration and settlement. It is in the development of post-arrival services for migrants already here - and for those yet to come - that we see high priority given in the Budget figures. The Minister has rightly stated on a number of occasions the great importance of establishing effective communications with migrant members of our community. Of course, English language training is the essential starting point in effective communication, and it should be noted that planned expenditure for this purpose is $ 15.48m, an increase of 65 per cent over expenditure in the preceding financial year. 
The greatest increase occurs in the area of child migrant education, and I for one am acutely aware of the need for this increased expenditure in this area. How often have I seen reticent, nervous, bewildered migrant children, newly arrived from overseas and subjected to all the competitions in Australian schools, with totally inadequate linguistic ability or preparation? Many have miraculously triumphed in spite of the system. What of the hundreds of those who have been "unable to make the grade due to the gaps in our migrant education policies? Expenditure on child migrant education is expected to reach SIO. 4m, being an increase of 100 per cent. The major portion of this expenditure will finance the salaries of special teachers for migrant children in government and independent schools in all States. The number of special teachers is expected to increase from 1,054 to 1,500 in the financial year. The number of children receiving this kind of education and assistance will rise from 40,000 to 60,000. The Minister's proposals for a diploma course in migrant education, the reform of school curicula, emergency classrooms and location of special services in socially deprived areas will all add to the effectiveness of the migrant education program. 
While on the subject of education, it must be remembered that not only children but also adults are in great need. Provision is made for 4,000 full-time students. The worth of this scheme will diffuse itself from the students benefiting to the communities from which they are drawn. One must commend the home tutor scheme, staffed by volunteers. This scheme is aimed to reach the migrant women, on a one-for-one basis, in the homes. Briefly, I should like to comment on the issue of pre-embarkation preparation. Whilst it is easy to take pot-shots at past performances, it now must be abundantly clear that more advanced procedures must be initiated and selection techniques must be more thorough. The era of the big sell is over. To walk tall in Australia may not be as important as walking well. We have no need to apologise for Australia, even by inference. We should be honest enough to acknowledge our deficiencies and confident enough to advocate our strengths. I would commend to the Minister the following thoughts: Where shipping is used - and I believe this method of transport has distinct advantages if creatively used - at least a month's intensive preparation program could be put into operation. Shipboard life can easily be wasted and frittered away. Chartered ships, even temporarily modified and oriented towards pre-arrival education, would provide the initial encouragement for continued education after arrival in Australia and through the variety of schemes envisaged in the Minister's proposal. 
I wish to speak briefly on the 5 Bills which are being taken in a cognate debate and all of which are associated with the tertiary level of education. The fact that we are saving time by considering the 5 Bills in a cognate debate should not be interpreted as indicating that these Bills are not regarded as important. That would be far from the truth. I believe that one method frequently used to measure the importance of a program is its cost. If this criterion were applied to these Bills they would rank as being of the greatest importance. The additional expenditure which will result from the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bills will be $399m. The additional expenditure under the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 3) will be approximately $467m. In other words, the Government will be allocating of the order of $796m additional expenditure. Therefore it is not surprising that the Opposition should choose to give support to these Bills. 
That support was given with certain qualifications. I was amazed to hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  speak of a general squeeze that is being put on the States in the field of education. The Opposition is speaking of a squeeze when we are giving an additional $796m to the States to finance tertiary education! I do not propose to go through the provisions of the Bills in detail, but those honourable members who have read them in detail will have noted the large number of initiatives that have been taken by this Government. I believe that the Minister for Education in Victoria is the person who has created the situation of confrontation. I believe that if we looked into the circumstances of the establishment of Melbourne's fourth university we would see that it was the Minister for Education in Victoria who failed to make the submission. Then at a later date he blamed this Government for the report that was made. 
A considerable amount of the sum of $796m is being allocated for the purpose of the Commonwealth's assuming full responsibility for financing tertiary education from January 1974 and also for tuition fees at universities and colleges of advanced education. This is both a significant and an historic step. This was one of the promises that was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in the election campaign, and it is another of the promises that has been kept. It is my hope that in time the result of this step will be that the number of places available at universities will be increased. It is also my hope that the students who are able to go to universities will come from a broader cross-section of the community than at present is the case. 
I wish to address my remarks chiefly to that part of the legislation which deals with financial assistance for the training of teachers in our schools and pre-schools. I would submit that the efforts of the previous Government in this respect were paltry and could be regarded as little more than token contributions. The importance that this Government places on the teachers and their education is reflected in the financial assistance which is to be given, namely, $188m commencing in January 1974. It is interesting to note that the report of the Cohen Committee on teacher education and the report on teacher education prepared by the Australian Commission on Advanced Education call for a program for teacher education costing $2 10m. This would be the cost of financing all the former State teachers colleges and pre-school colleges and existing colleges of advanced education. Under the system of matching State-Commonwealth grants which existed under the previous Government, all that the Commonwealth would be required to do in this respect would be to pay $86m. In fact, it has made a contribution of $188m - an additional $102m. That, of course, encompasses our taking over of the whole of the tertiary education expenses. 
It is encouraging to note that provision is made in this legislation for the integration of teachers colleges within the framework of colleges of advanced education. I would have liked to have seen them placed under the universities as I feel that this would have been the ideal position for them. However, I think the most important point is that the teachers colleges now have autonomy and that the most unhealthy arrangement of the employers, in the State teachers colleges, training their teachers will not continue. I believe that the practice of having students of other disciplines alongside teachers should be encouraged. At the moment many of them have transferred their names; they have their autonomy. I think the final step will come when we have multi-purpose institutions and the teachers of the day are being trained alongside students who will be entering other professions. 
As I have said, this legislation demonstrates the high priority that the present Government places on adequate teacher training. It is a recognition of the crucial role played by teachers in the process of education. I think the learning process is based on the relationship of the teacher to his pupils and his ability to establish both empathy and rapport. Until he is able to do that he is not likely to be able effectively to get the child to the point where it can learn efficiently. It is essential that the training of those who teach in Australian schools should be of the highest quality. Only then will it be possible to create adequate learning situations for the pupils. The concern of the Government for this high ideal is reflected not in the mouthing of the words that we heard spoken in this field for 23 years but in the taking of the actions which have resulted in the allocation of large amounts of money. 
There are just 2 other points to which I should like to make brief reference. The first is the provision of increased grants for courses in physical education. I believe that such courses are to be instituted at the Preston and Footscray Institutes of Technology. I applaud the fact that they will be training alongside other disciplines in a multi-purpose situation. But I would highlight the point that there is a tragic shortage of physical education teachers in our schools. Three years ago at the school at which I was teaching and at which I was in charge of deploying the staff available we bad one physical education teacher. Actually, to be precise, we had 0.6 of a teacher. For those who are unfamiliar with the use of such terms, that means a teacher who taught physical education for only 3 days a week. The only physical education that could be given at this school of 1,100 pupils was to the pupils of first form. That is happening in a day and age in which we place great emphasise on the need for physical fitness. I believe it is of tremendous importance that we create extra places for physical education at both universities and colleges of advanced education. 
The other matter to which I wish to refer is the increased money that is being made available for the training of social workers. That, of course, will mean the number of places available will be increased. I am encouraged to note that one university very close to my electorate - Monash University - will now have a social workers' course, presumably a diploma. The University of Queensland also will have one, as will certain colleges of advanced education. When one thinks of the Government's aims in regard to the Australian Assistance Plan - the health centres and the various other facilities in which there is a great need for social workers to take their place in the team - one can appreciate the great demand that there is for places in both colleges of advanced education and universities for the training of social workers. It is also encouraging to note that more places are being made available for dental therapists. 
I believe that these Bills are significant not only for the amount of money they provide, which in itself is most significant, but also for the extensions that they make at a tertiary level. It is certainly of the utmost importance that the Government has achieved free tuition at universities for all students who are accepted by the university authorities. I commend the Bills to the House. 
I was encouraged to hear the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  say that the Opposition is in general agreement with this Bill and proposes to give it a speedy passage. However, in relation to the honourable member for Wannon, I feel that the sting was in the tail of his speech when he spoke of the removal of clause 66. I would stress that one of the basic concepts running through this Bill, and indeed all education legislation we have passed, has been the concept of need. We have been opposed to across the board per capita grants being given to non-government schools. 
In relation to the honourable member for Petrie, today I have found myself much more in agreement with what he had to say than I have been on previous occasions. I agree very much with what he had to say about the quality of teaching and the need to look constantly for ways to upgrade teaching. I believe that that is incorporated in this Bill. I believe that there is misunderstanding in relation to the provision for the training of remedial teachers. Although this is not mentioned specifically in relation to the special schools sphere I would have seen this as coming in 2 areas - firstly in the training that is given to primary teachers, in most States involving a 3-year diploma course, and secondly in the extent to which this training equips teachers to pick pupils with problems. Teachers of the past who were trained about the time I was trained would need special training to bring them up to date. This seems to me to be what this in-service training is all about. It is to update teachers and bring them right into a relationship with the latest methods that have been found as a result of research. 
I agree entirely with what the honourable member said about local participation in decision making. Again I think provision for this is incorporated in the Bill where it refers to the devolution of responsibility. The honourable member said that the categorisation of schools is entirely in the hands of the Minister. As I see it, in the first place this work was done by the Interim Committee and in future will be done by the Commission. Certainly it comes back to the Minister for the final decision. 
I believe that this legislation marks the turning point of a new deal for Australian school children. It provides the injection of funds so desperately needed. I think I should remind the House of the existing Commonwealth commitments to education at the school level. Money has been directed to States for specific purposes including building science facilities and secondary school libraries. Of course, these grants have gone to both the government sector and the non-government sector. Also per capita grants have been made to non-government schools to the extent of $62 per head for primary school children and $104 per head for secondary school children. I suggest to honourable members that the amount of money that was given by the previous Government to education reflects the low priority that that Government gave to education. After 23 years little more than a trickle of funds was coming through directly to assist schools at the primary or secondary level. 
I have been fascinated in the last 2 debates - the debate last night on the 5 cognate Bills relating to tertiary education and the debate today - to hear honourable members on the opposite side claiming credit for the momentous legislation that is being passed by this Government in the field of education. It is true that some small, halting steps had been taken by the previous Government. It is equally true to say that what is happening today in relation to the massive amounts being put into education would not have happened if a Liberal-Country Party government had been returned. I submit that this Government has done more in a little over 11 months in the field of education than the previous Government did in 23 years. When this Government came to office it was faced with a situation of crisis proportions in Australian schools. 
The seriousness of the situation in Australian schools was set out clearly in the findings of the Karmel Committee. Let me summarise them. Firstly, most schools lack sufficient resources, both human and material, to provide appropriate educational opportunities for the young in a modern industrial world, in a world of change. Secondly, there is evidence of gross inequalities existing in our schools. I agree with the honourable member for Wannon that these inequalities are not restricted to the Catholic sector. There are great inequalities within government schools. There are inequalities between schools in the nongovernment sector and also between government and non-government schools. Thirdly, the quality of education leaves much to be desired. Teachers are inadequately trained and the provision for their professional development is meagre. My experience of 25 years of teaching in Victorian schools testifies to the accuracy of this assessment by the Karmel Committee. 
To place the Bill into some sort of perspective I think it is important to stress some of the grave shortcomings that exist in our schools. Let us think for a moment of schools in disadvantaged areas. I have frequently had the experience of going into some of these schools. They can be described only as grim fortresses. Many of them were built over 50 years ago. They have few windows. They are built on a couple of acres of land and there is not a blade of grass to be seen because the ground has been covered with asphalt. One finds that the sick room is not a room at all. The child who is unfortunate enough to be sick is placed on a bed under the stairs where every pupil passes by. In the staff rooms one sees utter shambles and facilities that would not be tolerated in private enterprise. The tragic thing is that frequently these schools are placed in areas of deprivation and frequently they have the added problem of a high migrant population. 
Another thing that we need to bear in mind as a backdrop to this legislation is the method that has been used, in Victoria at least, in commencing new schools. A number of years ago the standard procedure was that one knew that a new school was to be opened and then one proceeded to look for church halls, public halls and the like so that the school could get under way. Now we have moved forward a stage and we find that on a paddock we have a whole heap of portable class rooms and that is the school for three or four years. Then we have a pathetic shortage of specialist teachers. For the handicapped, the slow learner, the migrant or the child with speech defects or emotional problems there is no specialist staff to back up the teacher in the classroom. Of course all of this results in inequality of opportunity for the students. The result is that whether one looks to retention rates or to the students who are able to proceed to a tertiary education, one finds that children who come from lower socio-economic status families are in no way proportionate to their numbers in the overall population. Many Australian studies would bear testimony to this fact. One study I would quote from briefly was done by Anderson and Western. It related to students entering 4 professions in 6 universities. In a summary of their findings in schools in Australia it is stated: 
Nearly half the entering students were the children of professional and managerial fathers, who constituted 17.S per cent of the population in the age group likely to be their fathers; industrial workers were nearly 60 per cent of the population but their children accounted for only 22.6 per cent of students entering the 4 faculties. 
These are the conditions that provide the backdrop to this Bill. This was acknowledged, of course, in 1969 in the views expressed by the Australian Educational Council in its nationwide survey of educational needs. I believe that this Bill needs to be seen - I agree here with the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  - both in terms of its quantity and it quality. But let us not forget the quantity - the funds that are appropriated here. In 1974 and 1975 some $695m will be granted to all schools of the States. Of this amount, $466m is to go to State schools, $198m to non-government schools and a further $30m to joint programs in both government and non-government schools. It is interesting to note that the net cost of the interim committee's recommendation was $468.5m. I submit that these funds constitute a dramatic increase. 
It needs to be stressed that the Karmel funds are additional to the amounts which the States will spend from their own resources. The States are expected to continue to spend a similar proportion of their Budgets on education. I question whether in fact, this is being done by the Victorian Government. It is disturbing to read in the editorial of the most recent issue of the Victorian Teachers Union Journal' the following statement: 
Not only has the finance formerly used for tertiary education been directed entirely away from education, but in Victoria this financial year the State is spending a lesser percentage of its total Budget on education, even after writing off that tertiary money and looking only at the sub-tertiary level. 
In fact there is $72m missing.' That is the amount by which Victoria's education budget should have been greater had the previous rate of education spending been maintained. 
I stress that we on the Government side are looking for co-operation from the States. Having said that there is a massive input of funds, if this was all and if there was no underpinning educational philosophy, it could be a great waste of money. I agree with the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he stressed the need for this underpinning or underlying philosophy of education. 
To appreciate the quality aspects we need to examine the values which informed the Karmel Committee in its deliberations. I would paraphrase these as the pursuit of equality, the attainment of minimum standards of competence for life, the concept of schooling as a part of life as well as a preparation for life, the notion of education as a lifelong experience, diversity among schools, the devolution of the making of decisions of those working in or with the schools - that is, the teachers, pupils, parents and members of the local community - and the involvement of the community in school affairs. This is not a materialist concept. 
We, as a Government, believe that buildings, equipment and the like are important, but we believe that it is more important to spend money in such a way that we can achieve the values that have been set down. I believe that if we look at the major parts of this Bill we will see that this is being done. Provision is made for building grants and recurrent expenditure. We then move into the area of library grants, disadvantaged schools, special schools for handicapped children, teacher development and special projects. I stress that there is a centrality of the concept of needs running through this Bill. 
In the brief time that is left to me in this debate I wish to touch on several of the important aspects of this Bill, not because I believe they are the most important aspects but because they are innovatory steps which are, again, evidence that this Government is breaking new ground in the field of education. I commend the fact that in this Bill provision is made for grants to school libraries, particularly this time for primary school libraries. I commend the fact that an extra $20m will be spent on secondary school libraries. But I think the most significant step forward is the grant of $20m for primary school libraries. 
The importance of the library in the school is well established now. In fact, we should think of it more as a resource centre than just a library. A library is, in a sense, the very centre of school life. What has amazed me is that we have had to wait for so long for the Government to recognise the importance of school libraries. I agree with the honourable member for Petrie that these sorts of innovations should take place first at the primary level because it is there that the patterns of learning are formed. In this connection I am very pleased also to see the emphasis which is being placed on the training of teacher librarians. The clear need for trained teacher librarians is evident when one visits schools, finds rather beautiful, excellently equipped libraries there, but is told that they cannot be used at this stage because there are no trained teacher librarians. 
I turn now to the part of the Bill that deals with teacher development. Again, it is of crucial importance that opportunities be provided for teachers and administrators to upgrade their ideas and their competence. Today, with the speed of change in educational methods, this is of the utmost importance. I would be the first to subscribe to the view that teachers get in a rut. With the effluxion of time we find that the principals of schools are out of touch with the latest ideas and methods. We then have the sort of school in which very little is taking place in line with latest developments. So, clashes occur between staff who are out of touch with the pupils and who are out of touch also with the newly trained teachers. Therefore, I am encouraged by the fact that $7m is being provided for in-service training for teachers. It is to be a joint approach with the teachers from the State schools, non-systemic schools and Catholic schools taking part. Again, I think it is a good thing that this action should be taken jointly. I want to say a few words about the education centres. Not a large amount of money - some $2m plus $200,000 in operating expenses - has been allocated, but it will upgrade the professionalism of teachers. Of course, in many cases education centres already have been established. I agree with the honourable member for Wannon when he says that these should, in the main, go to the country areas because that is where the need is the greatest. The teachers in those schools should have much greater opportunities. 
Finally, I wish to mention the special projects fund which is to be established. Again it represents not a large amount - some $6m in the 2-year period - in terms of the total amount to be provided by this Bill. The aim is to raise the quality of schooling by fostering change and diversity. It is refreshing to see encouragement being given to innovation. In a sense this is a guarantee for the future. We must have people and schools setting the pace in the field of education. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the fact that higher fees will be charged by Catholic systemic schools in the new school year? Were these schools encouraged .to keep their  increases to a minimum in the belief that substantially increased Australian Government assistance would be available to them in the new school year? Does the Prime Minister anticipate alarm among Catholic education authorities at the prospect that the Government will be held back from providing the assistance, and will he advise these authorities that the funds earmarked for them are likely to be paid instead to the Melbourne Grammar School and other similarly deprived schools under existing statutory obligations? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. Insofar as migrants have played such a significant and crucial role in our history, has the Minister given consideration to the writing of a history of Australia, in which this role is given full recognition? 
At the outset, I should like to say that I am very pleased to have the opportunity to participate in this Address-in-Reply debate. 
We shall see about that. I think age at least is on my side. Twelve months ago almost to the day I made my maiden speech in this Parliament. When I spoke on that occasion I was very much aware that I was a member of a government that had just been elected and that had committed itself to policies of reform and innovation. That pleased me then and it still pleases me now. I believe now that the record of the Government is on the board. There is no doubt at all that its first year of office has been characterised by new initiatives which have been taken in almost every field of government. Of course there are people in the community who will say that there has been too much speed in these changes. Perhaps this is not surprising when we realise that some people for their whole lives lived with a Federal government which was noted for its inactivity. Then, suddenly, to be faced with the rapidity of change which has taken place in so many fields, one can understand, was somewhat of a shock to the system. It was pleasing for me to hear Her Majesty the Queen in her opening Speech state: 
In this session my Government will continue with its policies of reform and innovation. 
She did. I should like to devote my time chiefly to just 2 areas in the whole area of government, .and they are the initiatives that we have taken in the fields of education and health. There are numerous other fields that one could have chosen. Firstly, in the field of health - 
I am not sure that it came to a sticky end at all. I think that the record is extremely good and I suggest that the honourable member listen carefully because I am sure he will then be much better informed. 
Right, I might do that. The record of the Government in the field of education is magnificent. One of the chief reasons for this is that no longer is the Australian Government proceeding with a plug-the-gap approach. Now we have blueprints and plans for future development in all the fields of education. These have been drawn up by committees composed of experts in the particular fields. Documents of the greatest educational significance, such as the Karmel report, have been presented to this Parliament. I think it is very important to note that teachers, parents and the community at large had their opportunity to study these reports and make their recommendations. It was only after this procedure was followed that the Government brought legislation into this place. I submit that this surely is good government; this is truly democratic government. 
The education program of the Government has rested squarely on the principle of direct assistance to schools and students according to their needs. In my home State of Victoria an additional $198m was made available by the Australian Government's Schools Commission to spend on Victoria's private and state schools over the next 2 years. State schools received the greatest boost that has ever been given to them by an Australian government. So one had every reason to expect that 1974 would mark a new era in education. But in Victoria this was not to be the case. The Liberal Government in that State hopelessly bungled this golden opportunity. I for one am bitterly disappointed at this inexcusable negligence in planning for a year in which a new face was to be put on education. Instead, what have we seen? We have seen school beginners turned away. We have seen other school children sitting in overcrowded classrooms. We have seen a shortage of the temporary portable classrooms. We have seen some school children being taught in corridors. We have seen the size of classes being increased. 
To digress for just a moment, one school in my electorate has IS of these temporary portable classrooms. Only today, according to a newspaper report in Victoria, the State Minister for Education proudly announced that he was spending $2.7 5m on portable classrooms. This is so typical of the approach of the Victorian Government. The attitude of the previous coalition government here in Canberra was: Plug the gap with temporary classrooms; let us throw them on to a piece of land and we will call that a school. In Victoria I have seen schools on sites on which not one permanent building has been constructed. 
There are a couple of points that I believe should be made about this situation. I refer first to the beginning of the school year in Victoria. As early as May 1973 the Victorian Government knew that it would be getting its fair share of the additional $700m that the Australian Government was making available. It is perfectly true, of course, that the Labor Government had to fight the Opposition to get through both Houses of the Parliament the legislation which made this finance available to the schools. But, as we all know, wiser counsel prevailed in the Australian Country Party and the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the Bills were eventually passed. It is interesting to note that never did the Liberal Party support the expenditure of that money. So on that score there is really no excuse for the education bungle in Victoria at the start of the school year. At best it is a complete failure to plan for the future and, at worst, it is a shocking example of gross negligence. In fact, one might say that it is political immorality; and there seems to be justification for a charge of this nature when one considers how diligently the Victorian Liberal Government has worked to render ineffective any Australian Government legislation which would have been of benefit to the Victorian people. Would that the Victorian Liberal Government had worked just as diligently to give effect to and to pass on to the people the benefits of the finance and the new thrust coming from this Government. 
The second point is that the Australian Government has a most effective and efficient 
Bureau of Census and Statistics. Birthrate figures which are broken down into city, regional and State trends, are readily available from the Bureau. One of the reasons the Bureau issues figures such as these is to enable education authorities to plan far ahead in their school building programs. It was obvious by early 1970 that the baby boom meant that within four to five years there would be a need for many more school buildings. Nobody in the Victorian Government had to be able to gaze into a crystal ball to see this situation arising. It was there for all to see. As usual the Victorian Education Department was years behind in its planning and, of course, those who suffer for this inefficiency are the school children. 
I recall that in my maiden speech in this place I advocated the removal of what I called the iniquitous Commonwealth secondary scholarship scheme, which is what it was called at that time. This scheme rested on the false assumption that financial assistance should be given to and should be the prerogative of those most highly rated- in a competitive examination system. Although we as a government continued with this system last year, we initiated at the same time a new scheme of assistance at the secondary level based on a better criterion of assessment - that of need. I am pleased to note that it is unlikely that any more awards will be made under the old Commonwealth secondary scholarship scheme and that the assistance provided to students at the senior secondary level will 'be based on needs. The scope of this assistance will be considerably widened in the coming years. 
One could continue to speak on the achievements of the Government in the field of education. One could speak about teacher training, the removal of fees at the tertiary level, greatly increased student assistance, increased assistance in the education of the disadvantaged and the handicapped, and the encouragement being given to those engaged in innovatory projects. There is no doubt that in the next financial year the Government will provide the thrust that is so urgently required in the pre-school and child care fields. So much for education. 
I wish now to deal with the field of health. Labor's critics have attacked the national health insurance scheme as a classic example of the Australian Government's power hungry centralism. So often we have heard this accusation thrown at the Government. It is said that we are centralist, that we want to wipe out the State governments and that we are not interested in the local governments. I believe that in the field of health we can show that this criticism is totally unfounded and totally uninformed. To substantiate this assertion we need only to look at the community health program. However, before speaking about that let me say a few words about the universal health scheme. We know that the doctors, the voluntary health insurance funds, the private hospitals and the nursing homes were successful in their hysterical campaign to block our legislation to implement this scheme. The cost of the defeat of this legislation will be felt by the Australian people for years to come. I know that in my own electorate there was a great need for the flow-on that would have resulted from the passing of that legislation. I know of the great need which exists for public hospital beds in the area around Dandenong. I know that the major public hospitals desperately need increased government financial assistance. I know that at present many people in the community which I represent are at risk because they cannot afford to join a voluntary health insurance organisation. Already there have been - this is particularly so in Victoria - sharp rises in the rates payable by contributors to health insurance schemes. All of this, of course, could have been different. If they wish to take the credit for it, this situation has been brought about by those powerful pressure groups which wanted to maintain the status quo. Also it represents another victory to the obstructionist policy of the present Opposition in the Senate. 
The present community health scheme certainly is not just a health scheme operating at the national level, nor does it operate even at the State level. It gets right down to the areas in which people live - the suburb - and it helps the community in that suburb. It is true that planning is taking place at the national  level,  as I believe it should be. The then Interim Committee of the Australian Hospitals and Health Services Commission in June last year tabled a community health program for Australia. Again this was a departure from the methods used by our predecessors, under whom an ad hoc approach to government was the order of the day. Now it is essentially a co-operative venture, with the Australian Government attempting to work closely with the State governments and local communities. All three are involved. I believe that the 2 words 'community' and 'health' are the key words. 
I submit that a series of events in my electorate of Holt provides a complete and irrefutable answer to this highly vocal cry of centralism. In my electorate is the most rapidly expanding area in Victoria. It contains the cities of Dandenong and Springvale and the new city of Berwick, all of which can be described as bursting at the seams. Within the Berwick city boundaries lie the housing commission area of Doveton and the nearby centres of Hallam and Narre Warren. There is a total population of something like 18,000 in the area around Doveton, lt is a growing population. To look after the medical needs of that area there are 2 doctors, with no para-medical help. Clearly this is a situation revealing a vast gap between reality and the ideal medical care situation. The Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham),  who has had wide experience in these matters, has said that the ideal is one doctor to no more than 3,000 people, plus para-medical help. In the case of Doveton and Hallam there are 2 doctors to 18,000 people, with no para-medical assistance. 
Again I emphasise the word 'community' because it is at the community level where people at grass roots under our system of government are able to make known their health needs. Some weeks ago I called a meeting in the Doveton public hall to which members of the community came and gave expression to what they believe should happen in the community. Included in the people who attended that meeting were representatives of the Australian and Victorian Health Departments and the 2 doctors in the area, who were most enthusiastic supporters. The people, aware of the example of community health centres established and functioning well in the Australian Capital Territory and of the money set aside in Victoria, made it abundantly clear that they also wanted a community health centre in the DovetonHallam area. At that enthusiastic meeting there was quickly elected a steering committee which included councillors, a psychiatrist, service club members, pensioners and one of the local general practitioners, as well as other socially active people in the area. It is perhaps significant to mention in passing that wherever there is a great need for health services and a complexity of health problems doctors in the area seem to give their support. This is in marked contrast to the noisy group of doctors who wish to maintain the status quo in comfortable, settled and fee paying capability areas. 
The submission of the community's elected group will shortly be on its way to the Australian Hospital and Health Services Commission and the Minister in Canberra and also to the Victorian Hospitals and Charities Commission and the Victorian Minister. 
Given the strength of its case, which is due, in no small part, to the lack of concern and indifference of the previous Government and its failure to implement any comprehensive and adequate policy of health care, there is every likelihood that full approval will be given, with accompanying finance for the proposal. Of course, on a number of occasions the Minister for Health has outlined the alarming shortcomings of the present system which he has described in phrases such as haphazard and inefficient' and 'fragmented and wasteful'. He has said that it is not coping in the world of the 1970s. It is creaking along in a horse and buggy fashion in an age of automation. 
I submit that this Government has given a whole new dimension in its approach to health care. This results from the premise, which is the basis of our approach to this subject, that we believe that we have both a right and a responsibility to give all Australians access to high quality health care at reasonable cost. In conclusion, 1 believe that what must be emphasised in relation to the whole of this community health program is that it is not something imposed from above. This is not the big brother government in remote Canberra. As I have tried to demonstrate in the example from my own electorate of Holt, action has arisen out of the will and the wish of the community. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Services and Property. Under proposed amendments to the Electoral Act which will enable listing of registered party names on ballot papers will the newly formed National Liberal Party be able to use this name because of its similarity in meaning to the Liberal Party of Australia, the National Alliance and the proposed National Country Party? Will there be scope for registration of breakaway groups from all political parties? 
Is the Minister for Education aware that a number of Victorian government schools which were promised library and art/ craft buildings have now been advised that these will be seriously delayed? Has there been any delay in money being supplied by the Australian Government through the Australian Schools Commission for capital works? Has the Victorian Government spent all the Schools Commission money granted to it by the Australian Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing and Construction. It relates to the critical problem of emergency housing. Is the Minister aware that there is virtually no provision for emergency housing available from State housing authorities? Has the Minister given consideration to the possibility of alleviating acute housing problems by giving either direct assistance to local government authorities or voluntary groups which are prepared to organise small schemes or even specific grants to States for the purpose of emergency housing? 
I should like to bring before the House an issue of great moment in my electorate and, I believe, in many other electorates. I refer to the matter of emergency housing. There is a need to define clearly what is meant by emergency housing. When I use that term I am not referring to the acute housing shortage for low income earners, although in my electorate that is a problem in itself. In the Dandenong area in the centre of the electorate there is the longest waiting list in Victoria for housing commission homes. I understand that at the present time the waiting time for a person wishing to purchase a 2-bedroom or 3-bed- room housing commission home is approximately 4 years. The waiting time for a tenancy is about 3 years to  3i  years. 
When I use the term 'emergency housing' I mean the situation in which people have an immediate need of accommodation for that night - not for 3 months time or 6 months time but for that night or that week. I can speak personally about this matter from the contacts that I have had in my electorate. I would say that it is one of the most desperate and heartbreaking problems that exist. I would go so far as to say that people would be sleeping in the open, in parks and the like, if it were not for the magnificent work that is being done at present by the voluntary social welfare agencies such as St Vincent de Paul even by professional social workers working after hours and by the churches. Only last Friday I was speaking to the monsignor in charge of the Dandenong parish. He confirmed the findings of people who had investigated this problem. He pointed out that only 2 days earlier he had received a knock on his door at 2 o'clock from someone seeking accommodation. 
The need is clearly established when we look at the figures supplied by the welfare groups in my electorate, again using the definition of emergency housing that I used before - meaning a need for housing for the immediate night or the immediate week. The Dandenong Citizens Advisory Bureau has shown that in a period of one month, in October 1973, there were 23 requests for help. The Springvale Citizens Aid and Advisory Bureau has shown that in a period of 4 months there were 20 requests. The Doveton Social Work Office has shown that in a period of one year there were 30 requests. If we combine all those figures we see that in the electorate of Holt almost every day of the year there is a person or a family in desperate need of emergency accommodation. I point out to the House that these are only the ones that we know about - those who have actually come and asked for assistance. 
I leave it to honourable members to equate what this means in terms of human suffering. The investigation that was carried out by social workers and welfare organisations in the municipalities of Springvale, Dandenong and Berwick showed that the groups most affected were, as one might imagine, the one parent families, particularly deserted wives; families who were evicted from their houses; the elderly; and also, in areas like those centred in Dandenong, quite a large group of young people and families who come to those areas in the expectation of easy employment because cities such as Dandenong are reputed to be boom cities. These people do not check to find out whether housing is available until they arrive. 
I submit that the present situation is totally unsatisfactory. We depend entirely on a stopgap arrangement. We depend on organisations like St Vincent de Paul. We depend on hand outs. At no time at any level of government, except in sporadic cases by municipal councils, has there been an attempt to tackle the problem on a long term basis. I know that in my own electorate social workers have prepared a submission which was put to the Victorian Government but no action was taken. The submission highlights the fact that there is not available the right type of accommodation such as hostels, guest houses, low cost hotels and boarding houses. It also highlights the present makehift solution whereby the individual has to ask for and accept charity. That situation can lead only to a loss of self-respect and independence. 
I believe that my electorate is not unique in having this serious problem, even if it is possibly more acute in my electorate than in many others. It is for this reason that I have brought the matter to the attention of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson).  In doing so I am well aware that, he as the Minister has been responsible for negotiation with, the States whereby allocations for welfare housing have been higher than ever before. I know that he has always pleaded the cause for those in greatest need. However, I put to the Minister the proposal that specific grants be made to the States for emergency housing. I believe that this is possible. It has been done in many areas such as education. This could be a co-operative effort at the 3 levels - certainly with the States. Even if we do not go the whole way to start with at least pilot projects could be set up to try out such a scheme. I hasten to add' that, if there were to be a pilot project, the electorate of Holt would be a suitable choice for a number of reasons. The first would be the severity of the problem that I have outlined. Virtually every night of the year there is one person or family who is in need of emergency accommodation. The second would be that, the groundwork has already been carried out in that electorate. Professional and lay workers in the field have met on a number of occasions. They have given considerable attention to this matter and as to how such a project could operate. They have set out the type of accommodation that is required, how it could be managed at a local level and the basic conditions of residency. I know that the Minister would agree that many difficulties would be involved in setting up a pilot project. 
 I will certainly give the Minister a copy of the submission later. Finance for such a project has also been discussed. 
I believe that a person who receives help, although he may not be able to make a contribution at the time, should be expected to make some small payment retrospectivity. I stress that even a pilot scheme or a more widely based scheme is seen only as the short term answer. We know that there is a great need for research in this area. There is very little factual information in the community as to the problems which precipitate housing crises of the proportion about which I have been talking. 
Again I submit to the Minister that the electorate of Holt would be an excellent place for such research to be done, possibly by the Monash School of Sociology which is right alongside my electorate. I believe that, with the magnitude of the problem in my electorate, the research could well be done there. I commend this matter to the Minister for his scrutiny and investigation and press for some action to be forthcoming in the future. 
I welcome the opportunity to speak briefly in support of the 2 Bills which are the subject of this cognate debate. (Quorum formed.) I thank the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  for his courtesy in seeing to it that we have a quorum present. I noted when the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  was speaking that there was a great shortage of members in the House. The honourable member for Gippsland delivered a tirade against the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  I must admit that it was not until the end of his speech that I realised that the honourable member was actually supporting the Bill. I can well understand his chagrin at this Bill coming forward particularly, he said, in view of all the hard work that the Opposition had done when in government. A lot of words were spoken about it but of course there had never been any action in terms of money being provided. 
I must admit that I was surprised to hear some of the comments made by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock. It appeared to me that he was looking a gift horse in the mouth. I would have thought that as the representative from Parramatta he would highlight the quadruplication of the railway from Auburn to Penrith which, of course, is of tremendous benefit to the commuters in his electorate. I would have thought that he would highlight the point that it is the Whitlam Labor Government that is providing two-thirds of 'the cost of that quadruplication which will be of such tremendous benefit to his constituents, but apparently the honourable member wants to play politics right down the line. 
Like the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  I congratulate the Minister, and of course the Whitlam Government, for bringing this Bill into the Parliament. It is an historic Bill because it marks the commencement of participation in the funding of urban public transport by the Australian Government. It is another of the great initiatives of the Whitlam Labor Government. I would point out to the honourable member for Gippsland that the difference between the Whitlam Labor Government and the governments that preceded it is that our action does not consist simply of words and reports; we put money where our mouth is. I would remind the honourable member for Gippsland that the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics, of which he made comment, came out in June 1972. The LiberalCountry Party Government had an opportunity to implement its recommendations in the 1972 Budget, had it wanted to go past mouthing empty words. 
This Bill, of course, is long overdue, and this becomes clearly evident when we look at the practices of overseas countries with standards comparable to our own. I refer to countries such as West Germany, Great Britain and the United States of America. It has been long accepted in these countries that central governments must be involved in the funding of public transport services. As the Minister pointed out, the Federal Government in the United States grants up to 80 per cent of the cost of projects aimed at improving these services. In Great Britain the figure is 75 per cent. One may well ask why this tardiness and neglect has occurred in Australia. Despite the protestations that have been made by the honourable member for Gippsland, the only answer that I can give is the apathy and the lethargy of the Liberal-Country Party Government that preceded the Whitlam Government. For 23 years Liberal-Country Party governments watched the urban public transport systems of the States wither away and they did not give a cent to remedy the situation. 
As the public of Australia is only too aware, a further delay was caused by honourable members opposite forcing an election earlier this year. They know that this Bill was introduced earlier in the year, and the unnecessary interruption of government by the election has forced the States to wait this further period for funds which are urgently required to upgrade urban public transport systems. There is clear evidence that the urban public transport systems in Australia will continue to run down unless there is a massive injection of funds from the Australian Government. The Minister rightly pointed out that the decline in the use of public transport is a reflection of the present inadequate investment in it. This decline has been alarming. In the 10-year period from 1961-62 to 1970-71 there was a 61 per cent decline in the use of public transport, and this was despite a rise in urban population in the same period from 5.7 million to 7.5 million. So, to be more accurate, we should be looking at the decline in the actual number of journeys per capita over that 10-year period, and we find that the figure is a staggering 55 per cent. Is it any wonder that there is such a decline in the use of public transport? Those of us who live in Victoria have only to take the Victorian suburban railway as an example. We know that the carriages are antiquated. Some of them were purchased way back in the 1920s and the 1930s. 
Yes. As the honourable member for Diamond Valley points out, some were purchased even earlier than that. They are cold, draughty, dirty and uncomfortable old trains. At the moment we find ourselves in a vicious circle of declining patronage, reducing revenue, and increasing losses. The result is that fares are increased and/ or services are reduced and this, of course, leads to a further decline in patronage. So the circle continues. Somehow the vicious circle has to be broken and this can be done, as I said, only by an injection of Federal Government funds. Then and only then will the public transport become a viable and realistic alternative. There must be improvement in quality, capacity, frequency and speed, and in the parking facilities that are available at railheads. The alternative is to expect continued increases in the number of commuters using cars, which at this moment are in danger of choking the road arteries leading to the great cities of Sydney and Melbourne and, to a lesser extent, other great cities of this Com monwealth. (Quorum formed) I appreciate the fact that there are 6 Liberals here to listen to me. I thank the honourable member for Barker for once again calling for a quorum. 
I believe that the community is becoming increasingly aware of the problems attendant on the ever increasing number of cars congesting our cities. Pollution, whether it be noise or air pollution, the utter frustration of driving in peak hour traffic and the carnage on our roads are some of the problems to be faced, but I do not propose to elaborate on them at this stage. I am not for a moment suggesting that this Government is not acutely aware of the need to improve our roads. The Minister has made it abundantly clear in his second reading speech that we are aware of this need. He pointed out that in the next 3 years the sum of $!,120m is to be made available by this Government for the purpose of improving our roads 
To state it precisely, the purpose of this Bill is to expand the role of public transport within the total urban transport system. In this way a significant contribution will be made to the quality of life in our cities. 
In this Bill $7 1.91m is to be made available to the States for expenditure on urban public transport projects scheduled to commence in 1973-74. It was intended that $3 1.09m would be spent in 1973-74, but it was pointed out that this was not possible because of the delay caused toy the Opposition. Under the terms of the agreement with the States the Australian Government will provide by way of nonrepayable grants two-thirds of the cost of the projects approved for assistance. These Bills have tremendous significance for an electorate like mine. I said earlier to the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  that I believe they are also significant for his electorate. My electorate is situated on the fast growing south-east corridor of Melbourne where it is anticipated that urban development will stretch about 37 miles from Melbourne in the very near future. I think it can be seen that it is absolutely essential that if people are to commute about 30 miles each way to and from Melbourne, to other suburbs or to industrial centres, there must be an attractive and realistic alternative to travelling by car. 
I draw the attention of the Minister to at least 2 projects that I believe to toe worthy of his consideration and thorough investigation by the States. The first is the provision of adequate parking facilities at major rail terminals. Again speaking of my own electorate I can see a great need, for example, at Dandenong, about 20 miles from Melbourne, for such facilities to be established. I foresee that within the next 10 years there will be a great need at Berwick for the improvement of parking facilities. I expect that my colleague the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  would agree that there is a great need for more than railways radiating out from Melbourne. There is great need for an outer railway loop, particularly in the area where population growth is fastest; that is, on the southern and eastern areas of Melbourne. At present people are discouraged from using the railways to travel, say, from Frankston to Dandenong or vice versa, whether as regular commuters or as people going to the beach for the day. The distance between those two cities is a mere 14 miles, but to travel that distance by rail entails taking a train to the city, changing again at Caulfield on to another train for Frankston, a journey in all of over 30 miles. I foresee tremendous value in the development of an outer loop connecting cities and towns such as Frankston, Cranbourne, Dandenong, Ferntree Gully and Croydon. In commending these Bills to the House I stress that they are only the first step on the path to expand the role of public urban transport. It is a step from which there will be no turning back. 
I welcome the opportunity to take part in this debate. I agree with the Opposition that education and particularly child care are matters of great public importance. But I go further and say that the Whitlam Labor Government has made the Australian Parliament aware of the important role that the Parliament can play in education whether at the tertiary, secondary, primary or pre-school level. Prior to the election of the Labor Government, the performance of the Australian Government in the area of education had been most restricted. The Whitlam Government is the first government to have prepared a full comprehensive scheme or to have gone through the necessary stages to do that. As a government, we have not acted in an ad hoc way. Before we act, we require that adequate research should be carried out and reports written from which policies can be implemented. Only this week have we received the report of the Social Welfare Commission - the Coleman report - and also the report of the Priorities Review Staff. The tabling of these reports reflects the high level of interest taken in child care and other education matters by this Government. 
I am particularly pleased to note this newfound interest in child care by the Opposition. I hope that the interest will spread to the whole field of education. In the 20 months that I have been a member of this Parliament, the performance of the Opposition in matters affecting education has been most miserable. In the 23 years prior to the election of this Labor Government, I was able to watch through my involvement in education just what the Liberal-Country Party coalition did with respect to education. Its record was a miserable one of limited interest in tertiary education with some action taken at the secondary level to provide libraries and science blocks and to grant Commonwealth scholarships. In its last 5 years of office the LiberalCountry Party Government managed to spend the great total of $8.35m on pre-schools. A last desperate act by that Government, taken almost as a recognition of its sins of omission in the previous 23 years, occurred in the dying days of the 27th Parliament in 1972 when action was taken to pass legislation relating to child care. 
Since the Labor Party has been in office, the attitude of the Liberal-Country parties in the way in which they think about and react to initiatives in education have not changed. Let us not forget that the Liberal Party voted against the funding of some $70 lm for school purposes last year. Let us not forget that earlier this year the Opposition parties in order to force an unnecessary election were not afraid to reject supply in which money was appropriated for child care purposes. No concern was expressed for child care at that stage when the Opposition parties were intent on forcing this Government to the people. 
The honourable member for Moreton said that he should look very carefully at the wording of the matter that he proposed for discussion as a matter of public importance. It is: 
The repudiation by the Government of the public undertaking to commence a full-scale pre-school and child care program in 1974. 
I do not think that any question arises whether this Government will commence a full-scale program for these purposes. I do not think that anything that has been said or done to date should give anybody in Australia the idea that there is to be any relaxation in the effort of this Government to go ahead with its program. A commencement will be made. It may be made a little slower. There are good reasons for that. But that is all that can be said against our actions. I remind the honourable member for Moreton of an answer given in 1971 by the present  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  to a question asked by the present Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson).  As reported at page 2430 of House of Representatives Hansard of 4 May 1971,  Mr Les  Johnson asked, inter alia: 
When will the Government implement the undertaking given 18 months ago at the opening of the Senate election campaign to establish pre-school child minding centres throughout Australia? 
What was the answer given by the then Minister for Labor and National Service? After he had pointed out that the then Gov ernment subscribed to the great need for child care, 18 months after it had made a promise in an election campaign - not a couple of months later which is the position we are in now - the then Minister said: 
These facts have not changed and neither has the Government's appreciation of them, but what has changed of course is the economic situation. 
The then Minister stated further: 
It is because of this Government's appreciation of the importance of restraining inflationary pressures within the general community that the Government has embarked on a deliberate policy of curtailing Commonwealth expenditure. It is in the light of that policy, and having regard to the need to determine priorities in relation to Commonwealth expenditure, that this project, although a most valuable and important one, has been deferred for the time being. 
That was said by a member of the then Government 18 months after it had welshed on a promise. We need to look very carefully at the facts. In the last year the Government appropriated about $10m for pre-schools and $8.3m for child care facilities, but we were not able to spend all the money. This was through no fault of ours, because the money was there and we were prepared to give it to anybody who could use it and could have his schemes approved. It was possible to spend only $8. 6m. 
Why was this so? I can tell the House why, because I happen to wear 2 caps. I have been the  president  of a. child care centre organisation, or as we call it in Dandenong, a day nursery organisation, for 4 years. The organisation with which I am associated applied for money to be spent on fulltime child care for those in need in the community. I went through the processes step by step. After a certain time has elapsed it has been given the nod, as have many other organisations, as has been indicated by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  It is now at the stage of consulting with architects and having drawings prepared. I submit that it will probably take about 2 years from the time an organisation is given the go-ahead by both the State Government concerned - in the case to which I have referred local government was involved as well - and the Australian Government until a project is completed. Of course, it takes time to arouse interest in the community and some local government organisations are very tentative at the present time in relation to the support that should be given to embarking  upon any further projects in the social welfare field. So it takes time. 
I do not know why local government authorities take this view. I cannot answer for local government. I was a local government councillor for a number of years. I would have thought that local government authorities would have welcomed the generous offers that are being made by the Australian Government through State governments in relation to pre-schools. Interestingly enough - I do not think this should be forgotten - it was a Liberal Government which first introduced child care legislation. Under the Government's scheme money will go from the Australian Government through to the local committee by way of a much more direct approach. It was the Opposition which put forward the centralist idea that has been jammed down our necks. The Government very gladly implemented its program because we believe it is very necessary to remove the clutter at the State level. We know about it only too well in Victoria, where things are delayed unnecessarily by the State Minister concerned. I can see the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  nodding his head, and I would not blame him, because we all know just how difficult it is to convince the Minister in Victoria to move things along. 
Why local government authorities have procrastinated for so long I cannot say, but the fact remains that they have. These are the sorts of reasons why it was necessary for us to cut back to $34m at this stage. It has been said by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  that this amount could be increased. It is likely that it will be increased, but it is doubtful, given the resources and the doubts in the community at the moment, whether we will be able to spend more than that. 
-Is the Minister for Education aware of the growing disquiet among parents and teachers over the spending of the Australian Schools Commission money by State governments? Would the Minister inform the House of the degree of accountability State governments have to the Australian Government in the spending of Schools Commission money? To what extent is it possible for members of the Australian Parliament to know in what State schools Australian Government money is being and has been spent? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. Is the Minister aware of the report that the company Pilkington ACI intends to stop glass production for at least 8 weeks at its new Dandenong plant ? When were approaches made to the Australian Government by the company and for what purpose? Is there any action which can be taken by the Australian Government to ensure that there are not substantial retrenchments in this industry? 
I rise to speak in this grievance debate on a matter of national significance. It is not my intention to take up much of the time of this House with what I am about to say. It is, in fact, a speech that I wish I did not have to make. Regrettably I must say these things to expose a shabby and sordid racket in which certain people are growing fat on the difficulties of the people in Doveton- a housing commission area in my electorate of Holt. It is a racket, a confidence game in the worst sense of the expression, in which repacious land sharks are buying up homes from working people at relatively low prices and re-selling them in a matter of weeks at profits of up to 50 per cent and more. This is not the worst feature of this despicable activity. The conditions on which they sell the houses are so severe that unless the buyers can produce many thousands of dollars within 5 years, the racketeers will be able to repossess their houses, or force them to sign another contract on even worse terms. All the money the buyers have paid out will not meet the impossibly inflated interest rates. At the end of the first 5-year contract they could be tossed into the street as the vendors sell up their furniture, their car, their goods and chattels to pay the enormous sums which will still be owing. 
If any people in Australia can be said to be living and working on the average wage, it is the vast majority of the people of Doveton. Yet, it is these very people- the most vulnerable and deprived in the community- who have become the target for these profiteering, mendacious and despicable exploiters. My inquiries lead me to believe that this is a nationwide racket. I have documentary evidence to prove that this sordid business is flourishing in the most economically deprived area of my electorate. In the history of this nation, when the people have been called upon to face times of crisis, the Australian characteristic of a fair go for all has come to the fore. Everyone in the community has been willing to bear the burdens of deprivation and hardship equally. This has been the determining factor which has been our main weapon in fighting our way through critical periods- whether it has been war or depression, or the national tragedies of flood and fire. It is this symbol of mateship which distinguishes Australians as a unique breed of people, whose splendid record of share and share alike, of coming to the help, without question, of neighbours and friends in trouble, which has earned for us the high reputation we hold as a truly democratic people. 
It is with considerable sadness I have to say that as we face the international evils of inflation and unemployment there are those within our community who are turning people's hardships to their own mean advantage. They are people who are white-anting our national characteristic of fair play, with a contemptible and callous disregard for the sufferings and difficulties of others. These racketeers have battened on to the most vulnerable sections of our community to promote their immensely profitable quest for a fast buck- or in this case, for a fast hundred thousand bucks or more. This racket has grown out of the real and desperate need of families of working people for decent and adequate housing. My electorate of Holt, as the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  who is sitting at the table would know, is experiencing an unprecedented population explosion. It is among the most rapidly growing areas in Australia. This boom has made housing in all forms- from emergency overnight accommodation to longterm home buying- by far the most acute need in the electorate. 
Recognising the urgency and magnitude of this demand, these predatory profiteers have moved into the Doveton area. They have chosen as their prey people who are in debt or who need money in a hurry and will accept a price below market value to effect a quick cash sale of their home. At the other end of this racket are those people who are so desperately in need of housing that they will agree to terms so stringent as to be impossible to fulfil merely so they can have a roof over their heads. I have a table showing the sales and resales of properties in the Doveton area. I seek leave to have this table incorporated in Hansard. 
-I welcome the opportunity to participate in this Estimates debate on education. I do not want to waste too much time referring to the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  or in rebutting his arguments because, for the life of me, I could not find any arguments to rebut. He spent 5 minutes before he got around to education. He then discussed the $400 tax deductibility and then, for the last little bit, he made mention of the Schools Commission. I submit that in 22 months this Government has transformed the role played by the Australian Parliament in the field of education at all levels. This is reflected in the growing area of spending. In 1971-72, the last full year of the Liberal-Country Party Government, $346m was spent on education. Last year this Government spent $860m on education and the estimate for 1974-75 is for $ 1,535m, which is an increase of almost 500 per cent over the Liberal-Country Party Government's spending in 1971-72. In 197 1-72. the Liberal-Country Party Government spent a total of $1 12m on schools. The estimated expenditure this year on schools under the Karmel program is $780m and this year, 1974-75, is the first financial year which will show the full impact of the Government's major initiatives in relation to schools, tertiary education, universities and colleges of advanced education. In addition, of course, we are moving into new initiatives in the area of technical and further education and are providing additional expenditure for student assistance. I believe that it is important that we do not place too much emphasis on looking at this in money terms- this is only one aspect of the whole story. What is more important is where that money is being spent - 
I am pleased to hear that the Opposition is interested in where the money is being spent and I hope members opposite will listen carefully. We have consistently worked to a needs concept; that is that there must be the greatest amount of money spent where the need is greatest or where the education disadvantage is greatest. Linked to this needs concept we have seen our task as one to transform the quality of education and to make it accessible to all students We have dismissed the Opposition's view of excellence through elitism. We set ourselves a much more formidable task of excellence through equality of opportunity. 
If we look carefully at the estimates we will note that we can select a number of items which are clearly aimed at improving the quality of education. Let me take just 3 examples. One in the area of schools is the innovations program. The amount allocated, $6m, is not large in terms of the total education budget. The funds for innovative projects at school level are decided on the initiative of the teachers or the community and, at the system level, on the initiative of the school authorities or even at the national level. What has this innovations program achieved? I submit that it has given a new spirit of enthusiasm to teachers in schools. This is reflected in the number of applications that have come forward to the Schools Commission. The Schools Commission has been virtually inundated with applications for assistance. One can only be led to the conclusion that this must, in the long run, mean better education and more effective teaching. 
A second example of ways in which the quality of education is being improved is the $ 10.3m being set aside for teacher development. I am one who subscribes to the view that the quality of teaching is of the utmost importance. The $ 10.3m is to be used to expand in-service training. I know the need for this from my personal experience. I know that one can teach in government shcools for 20 years or more and never have the opportunity for in-service training. With this money in-service training can be organised jointly by government and nongovernment school authorities. Of course out of that $ 10.3m, money is set aside for the creation of new education centres and to expand facilities already available. Many of these education centres were set up in the first place through the initiatives of teachers, both in government and non-government schools who gathered together to organise these centres in an attempt to do a better job for the children who were around them. 
One could go on and talk of the curriculum development centre and the important part that will be played there. The other point I made was the further conscious objective of this Government to make education accessible to all children, wherever they live, whatever the socioeconomic condition of their parents. To achieve this objective we have provided increased assistance for the child whose family lives in an isolated area far removed from normal school facilities. In this year's estimates I am pleased to note that the qualifying income of the family has been lifted quite considerably, as has been the special supplementary allowance. The accessibility of education, particularly at the more senior level is, I think, a significant encouragement to students to stay on at school, particularly those students whose parents are in difficult economic circumstances. 
The Government has increased quite considerably the amount of the secondary allowance. It has been increased to some $450 this coming year. This will assist greatly. I would be somewhat critical of the Government in this regard because I believe still that the means test is far too restrictive in the way it operates. I am pleased to note that we are going to review totally the tertiary allowance scheme to iron out a lot of the anomalies. I believe the same thing needs to be done in relation to the secondary allowance scheme as well. 
I am delighted to note that the Government has accepted the concept of recurrent education. This concept is one of that moves beyond the view that education should be divided rigidly into primary, secondary and tertiary levels of education. I have always believed that education is a life long process. I believe that there should be sufficient flexibility within the formal system of education so that people are able to move in and out comparatively easily. 
I am delighted that at a number of secondary schools at present it is much easier now for adults to go back to school and to sit alongside people who could well be their children. I am equally delighted to see that we are moving into the field of technical and further education and that in the next 2 years we will be making available $ 100m which will assist the objective of allowing people the opportunity to plug into education at whatever level they might find themselves. For too long technical colleges have been the cinderellas of education and we must see that this continues no longer . I believe the $100m is the first step in that direction. I congratulate the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  who is not here at the moment, for the outstanding job that he has done in this field. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. It relates to the very serious situation at the Dandenong and District Hospital. Is the Minister aware that the average stay in this hospital is 5.3 days and that in a hospital with 205 beds the daily average of beds used is 210? Is the Minister also aware that desperately needed capital development has been seriously delayed? Is there any way in which the Australian Government can assist this hospital and other hospitals in Australia in similar desperate situations? 
I want to take the time that is available to me in this debate to discuss the estimates for the Department of the Media. I am pleased to note the increase in the proposed expenditure for this Department. Expenditure last year amounted to $97m. The estimated expenditure for 1974-75 is just over $115m. As honourable members are aware, Australia is the only country that has a national Minister for the Media. The Department of the Media was established to co-ordinate all Government responsibilities in media and to bring forward cohesive policies for orderly development. The Department has had only a brief history but in that time it has well and truly justified its existence. I believe that the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  and his Department are to be congratulated on the initiatives which have been taken and the achievements which have been made in that time. 
When the Whitlam Government was elected to office in 1972 the promise of open government was given. The Department of the Media has helped to make possible the keeping of that promise/This is clearly apparent from an examination of the work carried out by the Australian Government Publishing Service and the Australian Information Service. The demand on the services of the Australian Government Publishing Service, the printing and publishing section of the Department of the Media, has increased tremendously under this Government. Those who question whether this Government has taken the doctrine of open government seriously need only to look at the volume and number of different publications produced by this Government for public consumption. The number of different publications has doubled in the space of 2 years. I refer honourable members to the publication 'The Australian Government Digest' and the excellent value that this is to any person in the community who wishes to find out more about how the country is governed. 
The value of work handled by the Publishing Service has increased to $20m and, while some of this is undoubtedly the result of rising costs of production and in particular the result of the international paper shortage, by far the bulk of it results from a policy of ensuring that the public have access to information about their government. Nowhere could this be more evident than in the establishment by the Department of combined bookshops and public inquiry centres in places accessible to the public in most capital cities throughout the country. The volume of sales of Government publications has been increased by this enterprising move by as much as 300 per cent in some areas in the past 12 months. For the first time the revenue from sales of Government publications has topped the $lm mark. For the first time people are beginning to realise the wide range of enlightenment and even information that is available in Government publications. For the first time they have been given somewhere to go with a plea for information about how their country is governed or what they can do to gain their full rights as citizens. 
The Government has been said to have neglected country areas. I would suggest that the development of the mobile bookshops has shown how wrong this criticism is. These mobile bookshops are designed to travel through country areas to provide to people who live in the country access to information about government. The mobile bookshop concept is new and has yet to be developed to its optimum in utility, but it is an indication of the fact that this Government takes its commitments to people in country areas a lot more seriously than some people give it credit for. 
The Australian Information Service also has played its role in the development of open government policies. No longer is it to be regarded as a body remote from the Australian people and designed to serve only the information requirements of people in other countries. For so long the previous Government pursued a policy of producing books and pamphlets of high quality to be given away to people in other countries but which were expressly banned even for sale in Australia. Today the school children of Australia have access to the impressive range of publications produced by the AIS and made available overseas. They can find out about their own country from an information service that has been given a dual role to provide overseas information about Australia and to provide to Australians information about Australia. 
In the remaining time I want to touch on other impressive achievements of this Department. Total funds available to the Australian Broadcasting Commission under this Government have increased from $66m to $98m- a 50 per cent increase in 2 years. In the past 12 months almost 55 per cent of the ABC television programs were of Australian origin. Drama increased in the financial year 1 973-74 by approximately 30 per cent over the level of the previous year. 
The Government also took the historic step of moving at last into frequency modulation broadcasting after a delay of more than 20 years under a Liberal-Country Party regime. Further opportunities for experimental program innovations are being encouraged by the use of ABC transmitters in Sydney and Melbourne. The Government also is moving into the field of public broadcasting. It has opened the way for a new and exciting era in broadcasting with a grant of experimental FM licences to music broadcasting societies in Sydney and Melbourne. It has indicated a firm intention to cater for the interests of those who find the traditional broadcasting services too limited. It has deliberately stimulated discussion and dialogue with the community to try to establish the best ways of achieving reasonable public access to the airways. Having cleared the dust away from planning policies established years and years ago it has revealed the availability of frequencies for broadcasting that will allow the development of a genuine freedom of communication in this country- a freedom of communication for the many rather than the few. 
Significant achievements have also been made in the film industry. Two years ago there were no more than 4 feature films being produced in this country and few of them held any real prospects for profitable return. This year it appears that there will be as many as 20 feature films produced. For the first time thousands of Australians are seeing Australian films in Australian theatres. The change of atmosphere of the film industry has been extraordinary. The Government is determined to ensure that the impetus of this leap forward in production will be maintained. 
In the election campaign of May this year the Liberal-Country Party Opposition indicated, in what it thought would be a blandly accepted proposition, that if it was returned to Government it would abolish the Department of the Media. The reactions of people in the industries involved brought a sharp jolt to the Opposition's aspirations in this regard. The Department of the Media is now proving that it has a major role to play in government- a role of encouraging the flow of information throughout the community, not one of suppressing information or colouring it with bias. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  on the day of the commencement of publicity of government machinery accused the Department of the Media of launching a full scale campaign of political propaganda. Those who saw the advertisements to which the Leader of the Opposition referred have wondered ever since what the Opposition was getting at. The advertisements on the functions and operations of the Parliament are now sought as handy aids for the education of school children. The school children and their teachers have found this material invaluable and free from bias of any kind. It is this kind of experience- hearing the Leader of the Opposition rant about the propaganda functions of the Department of the Media- that must make many people wonder how serious the Opposition really is or how gullible it thinks the Australian public is. 
-I want to speak briefly on the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill. The purpose of the Bill is very straightforward. It seeks to increase the rate of subsidy payable under the Delivered Meals Subsidy Act by 5c from 20c to 25c for each meal delivered and to 30c if the meal includes approved vitamin C supplement. This increased subsidy is to apply to all meals delivered after 1 July 1974. 
-I appreciate the interjection, as I also stay there. In terms of the amount of expenditure to be allocated this could not be regarded as an important Bill. However, I submit that the service provided in the community as a result of this legislation is significant. It is significant in terms of the total number of meals which will be delivered. The provision in the Bill is based on an estimate of 5 million meals. It is interesting to note how this service has grown since 1972-73- the last year for which figures are available- when 3,364,474 meals were provided. It is important also in that it is another example of co-operation between the various levels of government and linked with them the voluntary assistance at the community level. I am aware that the local councils in my own electorate are responsible for organising the Meals on Wheels service. I am also aware that they are dependent very much on a large band of voluntary helpers to deliver the meals. These people of course are prepared to give generously of their time and the use of their cars. I personally thank those volunteers for their continued assistance. I also urge that more people in the community who have the time available take the opportunity to perform this worthwhile community service. 
However, I believe this service must be seen as part of a wider and more extensive domiciliary service which aims , where it is possible, for those who are growing old and in many cases increasingly frail to maintain their independent way of life in the dignity of their own homes. This is a principle which is strongly supported by this Government. Of course, as I said before, the scheme is part of a broader scheme. There are many examples of the broader scheme that one could choose and which have been designed to assist where people continue to live on in thenown homes. I take but one example- the States Grants (Home Care) Act, by which this Government accepts the responsibility for two-thirds of the States' expenses for home care services such as home help, shopping, the handyman in the home to assist aged persons, and even services related to the provision of linen and sitters. 
While I would applaud the local councils in my electorate for the home help services that have been organised by them I would urge councils that they explore the possibilities of diversifying these services. I know that it would give the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and this Government great satisfaction if there were a considerable diversification of the services that are made use of under this Act. Of course in domiciliary care we can speak of the provision of $14 a week. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  talked of this in relation to the domiciliary nursing care scheme. I agree with him that there is a need to extend this scheme to the stage where any person who is in need of such service should be able to receive the $14 a week. The Meals on Wheels service is important also- this point has been made already by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)for  the social contact provided by the service. 
It is of tremendous importance to the housebound to have this visit 5 times a week. An honourable member opposite suggested that it should be provided 7 days a week for those who are in great need. I can see that this has much to commend it, but I am also aware of the many problems that would be involved in organising it at the local level. I personally am aware of the sort of personal contact involved when the volunteer goes in to meet the aged persons and to bring their meals to them. I have taken the opportunity on several occasions of accompanying my wife in this sort of service and I have seen the look on the faces of aged persons and the joy that comes just from having another person to talk to for a brief time in their desire to spend a little time chatting and telling of their problems or whatever. This to them is important. I suggest that this is a two way process. Not only the person in the home who receives the meal gets great benefit from the social contact; I believe that the volunteer gains greatly in the relationship that is formed with the people being visited. 
Of course the economic and nutritional aspect of this service must not be minimised. It is of great importance that the aged person is supplied with an appetising meal which contains the nutrients required for at least a minimal daily intake for this in itself could be the factor which allows the aged person to continue to live in his or her home, and this, I believe, should be the case wherever it is possible. So where it is possible, from the social, humanitarian and economic viewpoints it is obviously preferable for aged people to remain in their homes rather than to move them into institutionalised accommodation. 
I conclude by raising a problem related to the Meals on Wheels service in my own area. Three municipalities which utilise this scheme are the city of Springvale, which provides an average of a little over 100 meals a day which it gets from the Southern Memorial Hospital in Caulfield; the city of Dandenong, which provides about 70 plated meals a day which come from the Dandenong and District Hospital; and the city of Berwick, which provides a smaller number of meals. There is a need to provide an increased number of meals. This need is steadily growing. I know that in my own area hospitals are reaching the point where they will be unable to prepare these meals for very much longer because of the tremendous pressures that are being brought to bear on them with the increasing number of beds. There is a logical solution and to my mind that is to establish a regional kitchen to provide plated meals for 3 or 4 municipalities. This is difficult under present legislation. 
To attract the $2 for $1 subsidy a kitchen can be part of a senior citizens club. It can be either an extension or the first stage. The point I make is that the kitchen for the preparation of plated meals to be delivered to the elderly and frail in their homes is totally different and separate from the work of senior citizens clubs. These clubs do an excellent job in the community. I am well aware of this, as I visited two of them last week at Dandenong and Noble Park. But in the main they are run by different groups of people from those being served by Meals on Wheels services in the home. I request the Minister to consider amending the existing legislation or bringing down new legislation to allow councils which are prepared to operate regionally- that is something that this Government commends- to build kitchens for this purpose. In my own electorate it would be logical to build a regional kitchen to service Meals on Wheels in the municipalities of Dandenong, Springvale, Berwick and Cranbourne. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I welcome the opportunity to participate in this debate. My speech follows that of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  It is always a pleasure to follow him. He made several points about which I should like to make brief comments. Firstly, I am naturally delighted that the Opposition is supporting the States Grants (Schools) Bill, as I really expected it would. The honourable member expreseed concern that the 
Schools Commission might develop in such a way as to rival the Department of Education. I do not share this concern. As I look at the Schools Commission and the way it has been established, I see  Dr McKinnon  as its  chairman  and its full time and part time members as being experts in their field. Terms of reference have been carefully given to this statutory body and its responsibility is very clearly through the Minister to the Parliament. 
I remind the honourable member for Moreton that the State governments and the systemic schools, the Cathlolic education authorities, play a very significant role in the decision making process, in deciding where the money will be spent. When talking about recurrent grants the honourable member pointed out that a number of nongovernment schools are facing a real crisis at this time. Althouth I would agree that nongovernment schools are facing some crisis in relation to finance, I stress that it is my experience in my own electorate that the parish schools and the regional colleges I have visited are delighted that at this time they are receiving much more in the recurrent expenditure area than they have ever received before. This does not mean of course that their financial problems have disappeared overnight, but they are much better able and much better equipped financially to meet problems than they have ever been before. 
The reasons for the Government introducing this Bill are clear. The Government recognises the unexpectedly high cost increases in the provision of education facilities. We, as a government, are determined that the program of upgrading government and non-government schools as envisaged in the Karmel report should not be slowed down. I would suggest that this Bill is further evidence of the priority that is being given by the Government to equality of education for every child in the Australian community. The Schools Commission has recommended that additional sums be added to the grants to the States to restore the original purchasing power to the grants provided for these programs. This legislation makes available a further $64.47m in recurrent grants and $ 14.43m in capital grants up to 3 1 December 1 975. Of this total figure of $78.9m government schools will receive $47.43m while non-government schools will receive $26. 18m. Additional allocations will be given to programs which apply to both government and non-government schools. It will be in this financial year that the full impact of the Karmel program will be felt. 
As is known, last year's Budget provided for only 6 months of spending under the 2 year Karmel program. The first 6 months have rightly been described as a gearing up period. The bulk of the total amount, more than $785m, will be available to be spent in this financial year. I want to stress several points. The first is that the Karmel program was always seen, I think, by Professor Karmel and the original committee, certainly by this Government, as a topping up exercise for us to lift standards where they were down- in many cases they were at a very low level- to what was regarded as a reasonable benchmark. The underlying assumption was that this money should be directed towards increasing expenditure in schools and not be in substitution for continuing efforts by the States and non-government school authorities. I emphasise that it was to increase expenditure on schools, not to substitute funds for what the States were paying and which they must continue to provide. To this end the States were asked: to continue to allocate to the construction and equipping of schools the same percentage of their total capital expenditure from works and housing program which had been achieved in average of the 3 financial years up to 30 June 1971 - and- to the operation of their schools the same percentage of their total current budget expenditure (excluding expenditure in respect of business undertakings) as had been allocated in the financial year 1971-72. 
It is my contention that some of the State governments are not honouring this agreement. If my contention is correct it is clear that this program for schools, embarked on by the Whitlam Government, will be watered down. If this is so, the responsibility for this fact must be accepted by the appropriate State governments. 
The second point I make is that it is almost impossible to find out where Karmel money is being spent. In my own home State of Victoria I know only too well from personal experiences the difficulties one encounters when one tries to find out to where is the money going. In a desperate attempt to find an answer to this question in my own electorate I have written to all principals in the area and gradually some sort of picture is emerging. But I stress that even here there are numbers of schools which tell me that they are unaware of the sources from which the money comes, whether it is State government money or money funded through the Karmel program. 
The question I would pose is: Why is there this close secrecy? One can only assume that the Victorian Minister for Education is determined that credit should not be given to the Whitlam 
Government for doing what Liberal-Country Party governments should have done many years previously. The Victorian Government is claiming credit for initiatives that rest fairly and squarely with this Government. I could cite numerous instances where the State Minister for Education has announced some upgrading of a particular school or some capital works program but never has there been any mention of the fact that the funds that have made this possible have come from the Australian Government. 
It is interesting to note the new found interest of the Opposition parties in education. It is well known that in the last 2 years of the LiberalCountry Party rule, 1971 and 1972, the previous Government spent about $112m on education. In 1974 and 1975 this Government will spend more than $785m on schools under the Karmel program, and that is only one aspect of the total education picture. I think honourable members will recall that during the May election campaign this year the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  spoke of cuts in expenditure in the public sector. When pressed to explain where these cuts would take place, a figure did emerge, and that figure was $260m. It has since been denied that in fact this is the amount by which expenditure in the public sector would have been cut. 
Today, as a matter of public importance, the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  brought up the point that was made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  when he talked of an 8 per cent cut across the board. It is interesting to reflect that the Opposition spokesman for defence in this House some few months ago spoke of increased expenditure in the defence field if the Opposition parties were to come to government. Out of all this one can only assume that the Opposition parties would favour cuts in expenditure in education, and one can assume also that these cuts would be fairly massive. This assumption seems to be supported by the recent statement made by  Mr Russell  Prowse, who is a spokesman for the Bank of New South Wales and who appears also to be a spokesman for the Liberal Party, in which he recommended a $700m cut in education expenditure. I would remind the House that just $785m is the total amount to be spent on education over 2 years. That is the total Karmel program. If the cut in expenditure of some $700m about which  Mr Prowse  talks was allowed to take place, in fact this would mean the complete emasculation of the education policy. In view of all of these sorts of statements that have been made, there is no doubt in my mind that if the 
Liberal and Country parties had been returned to government in May a Bill such as the one we are considering now, which is taking account of the spiralling costs in the community so that we can be sure that schools will get what it was intended they should get following the Karmel report, would not have been introduced. 
I can see the honourable member for Moreton shaking has head and saying that this would not be true. From all the statements that I have collected together and all of the talk of cuts in public expenditure- the evidence is there- I can only draw that assumption, because never has the Opposition clearly stated in what areas these cuts will take place.  The  Whitlam Government has stated very clearly that spending in the field of education is a top priority. 
The final matter I wish to raise, which is of deep concern to me, is whether or not the Victorian Government will be able to spend the increased financial allocation to capital works provided under this Bill. I believe I have good reason for concern. The experience I gained from a long period of teaching in the Victorian Education Department made me well aware of the outmoded central administration of that Department and the way in which it deals with capital works programs in government schools. For years I have been critical, and highly critical, of the duplication which takes place between the Public Works Department and the Building Branch of the Education Department. There seems to be a fear of allowing private contractors to act in the business of building schools. Heaven knows why this should be so, because the little experience that the Victorian Government has had in relation to this matter should convince it that allowing private contractors to undertake this work would speed up the spending of the money that has been made available. I think it was the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  who made reference to this matter on the weekend when he mentioned the case of the Prince's Hill High School which the Public Works Department calculated would take something like 5 years to build. Private consultants were called in and the job was done in 2 years. 
The inevitable result of all this has been a clogging up of capital works. The Victorian Education Department simply is not geared administratively to handle programs of the magnitude that are required in 1974. There is a desperate need there for streamlining. Let me cite but one example. An amount of $ 10m has been made available to the Victorian Government through the Schools Commission for expenditure on capital works at disadvantaged government schools. To date only $400,000 of this money has been spent. This means that only 4 per cent of the total allocation has been spent If we look at the overall picture for Australia, we see that something like 18 per cent of the money allocated has been spent The Catholic education authority in Victoria has spent well in advance of this figure. I am genuinely concerned as to whether in fact the Victorian Government is sufficiently streamlined to be able to cope with handling the sort of money that is being made available to it in the capital works field. I remind honourable members of disadvantaged government primary schools in my own electorate at Doveton, Doveton West, Doveton North, Dandenong South and Westall. I know the needs of these schools because I have visited a number of them. It will be a tragedy if the Victorian Government fails to provide to these schools money to upgrade their facilities. If the Victorian Government fails to provide the money there will be only one reason for it, and that reason is not that money is not being made available by the Australian Government The money has been made available. Only 4 per cent - 
-The honourable member for McMillan has said that it is a lot of hoo-haa. I would remind him that with almost 12 months gone only 4 per cent of the money allocated has been spent. Another 96 per cent of that money is still to be spent. It is my hope and my desire to see that money spent. 
I know it is the honourable member's hope, but it is not a lot of hoo.haa. We are at the half way mark and only 4 per cent of the money has been spent. We know that there is a danger that the money will not be spent, and the reason for this is the clogging up that takes place in the Victorian Education Department. 
-The children suffer, as my honourable friend says. This new initiative on the part of the Australian Government will be welcomed by those interested in improving both the quality and the availability of education to all Australian children, irrespective of their financial circumstances, their parentage, their religious beliefs or where they live. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-I welcome the opportunity to participate in this debate. Most of the points that were mentioned by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  I shall deal with later. In relation to his point of specifically excluding from the Commission people involved in the industry I point out that in the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill it was specifically stated that people involved in the industry should be excluded from the Commission. It is this Government 's belief that people who are involved in the industry should not occupy the position of full time members, but we would be happy should part time members be involved in the industry. Naturally they would be expected to declare their pecuniary interests at the appropriate time. 
We see this Bill, which seeks to establish an Australian Film Commission, as a vital and historic step in the process of further developing a viable Australian film and television program production industry. I emphasise the phrase 'further developing'. Tremendous progress has already been made. We think that Film Australia, formerly known as the Commonwealth Film Unit, the Australian Film Development Corporation in the brief time it has been established, the Australian Film and Television 
School, and not least this Government, have done excellent work. 
I mention the maligned points system that has been rubbished on many sides. It has achieved its objective of raising Australian content and giving great encouragement to the industry, which of course is reflected in the greatly increased budget. I believe that both sides of the House are agreed on the need to develop an increased national sentiment, that is, pride in being Australians and a pride in our history. I suggest that film is the most suitable medium for such a purpose. I am aware of the upsurge of interest in schools in film making, where it is seen as yet another mode of communication. I have vivid memories of when I was in the teaching profession and participating in the making of films, of the gold rushes, at the Doveton and Pakenham high schools where the children had the opportunity of actually taking part in history. In this way they captured something of the excitement and the fever of the gold rush era. In similar' manner, I believe that some of the television films and films of Australian origin have given Australians a much greater awareness of their identity and an understanding of their history. 
As I see it, the main aim of the Bill is to take the various forms of government involvement in the film industry handled by the Department of the Media and to place them under the control of a new statutory body, the Australian Film Commission. The idea is that the Australian Film Commission shall take over responsibility for Film Australia, which for the last 32 years has been treated entirely as a section of various government departments, and the functions of the Australian Film Development Corporation, which was established by the Gorton Government as a statutory body with the function of providing financial subsidies for the development of the film industry. I wish to highlight the excellent work of Film Australia. I believe that its production activities fall into 2 categories, namely, the films made for government departments and the national films, be they of a documentary, educational or general information type, aimed at providing a better understanding and knowledge of our country. I believe that the high quality of its work is reflected in the awards that it has received at film festivals all over the world. Similarly I believe that the Australian Film Development Corporation has done an excellent job in its brief history. Assistance in the form of bridging finance has sometimes been sought from the large film companies. One can think of many films which, particularly in the last year or so, have been successful on the international market. There is no doubt that this body has been the very lifeblood of the small film companies. 
The work of these 2 bodies, together with the support that has been enthusiastically provided by the Government, I believe has led to a new upsurge of hope in the film industry. I think that is reflected in the feature films which have been produced over recent years. I think something like five feature films were produced several years ago- before we came to office- and that sixteen were produced last year. I think 20 feature films have been produced this year and it is anticipated that twenty-four will be produced next year. Although the Australian Film Development Corporation has done a very fine job, it has been limited in its scope and therefore has not been as effective in developing the industry as it might have been. As I see it, its purpose was to ensure that films were made. The purpose of this legislation is to ensure that films are made and shown in theatres and that they return money to their producers so that those producers will then be in a position to continue their work and to increase their output. I am suggesting that the Government is right in taking a total view of the industry. The Australian Film Development Corporation was Limited to a part view of the industry. We must ensure that Australians have the opportunity to see their own films and that the films have at least a good chance of being shown outside of Australia. 
When this Bill was being debated in another place  Senator Guilfoyle,  who led for the Opposition Parties, said that she wished to stress that the Opposition Parties were delighted that the Government was proposing the formation of the Commission. The Opposition Parties then proceeded, by way of amendment, to remove all the teeth from the Bill. We now have before us an emasculated Bill, one which was severely mauled in the other place. By way of amendments in this House it is hoped to restore the Bill to a form which will enable it to achieve its original worthy objective, that is, a viable and expanding film and television production industry. 
It would seem from a perusal of the Senate Hansard that the objections of the Opposition to the original Bill centred on 3 points which are interrelated. One has already been referred to by the honourable member for Kooyong, that is, the matter of ministerial responsibility. 
It seems to me that the Opposition has taken an extraordinary stance on this point. I say that because to the best of my knowledge all statutory bodies in this country are subject in some way to ministerial direction or control. The example that is so frequently cited in this respect is the National Film Board of Canada. It is specifically subject to the direction and control of a Minister - in the exercising of any or all of its powers. Surely there must be ministerial responsibility and public accountability when an expenditure of $4m is involved. What appears to me to be at stake is the principle of ministerial responsibility. Surely it is realised by the Opposition that the Minister for the Media is responsible to the Parliament, that there he is subject to questions about the use of his powers, and that he is also responsible to Parliament for his actions. Has the Opposition thought of the alternative of a totally independent statutory body and of how it could abuse its powers by refusing to make films that it thought were unnecessary and make films in the way in which it wanted to and not in the way in which the Government, as the representative of the people, believes they should be made? Does it want a body which has virtually no responsibility to anybody, certainly not to this Parliament? I suggest that the principle of ministerial responsibility, which has been a part of all statutory bodies, should be retained in this Bill. 
The second objection is linked to the first. It seems to be feared that through ministerial control the Government will use Film Australia for propaganda purposes. To me that is, frankly, arrant nonsense. Why should the situation change? At this point in time Film Australia is under the control of a Minister. It always has been under the control of one Minister or another in one government department or another. I challenge the Opposition to point to any films that were made either at the time they were in government or in the time that we have been in government that were made for propaganda purposes. The Government must have some say, through the Minister, in the making of films for national purposes. I repeat that, as I see it, this talk of political propaganda being used by Film Australia in the short film industry is absolute nonsense. 
The third objection of the Opposition appears to be to the short film quotas. Surely it is obvious that no indigenous film industry can continue to exist for any length of time if the films produced cannot receive a reasonable guarantee of screening. I suggest to honourable members on the other side of the House that they should reflect on the history of the Australian film industry and how it has had its times when it has blossomed and then declined again. What the Government wants to see is a viable industry for the future and not one which is left to chance. I return to what I said earlier. The Commission is to be established to encourage not only the making of Australian films, as has been done through the Australian Film Development Corporation, but also their showing in theatres so that there will be a return to the producers. It is only in this way that we can encourage effectively the production of films in Australia. I do not think I need to say it but I will do so for the benefit of honourable members opposite: Any quotas that will be set will allow for a very wide selection of films by those exhibiting them. In the few visits I make to the theatre I, for one, would be delighted to see Australian short films shown more frequently. How often do we see films produced by the National Film Board of Canada? How seldom do we see Film Australia films? I would commend the Bill to the House and I would commend the amendments. 
-Is the Minister for Housing and Construction aware of housing rackets in which unscrupulous profiteers have purchased for cash housing commission homes in Doveton in my electorate, then sold them several months later at about 50 per cent profit on vendor's terms? To what extent are actions such as these feeding the escalation in land and house prices while exploiting the desperation of people to get homes? Is there any action that the Australian Government can take to stop these land sharks? 
I welcome the opportunity of participating in this debate tonight. I am pleased that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  added the last words because at least one could agree with the last few sentences of his speech. I will refer later to the amendment that has been moved. I want now to concentrate my remarks on what has been described correctly by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  as the Cinderella of education in this country; that is technical and further education. I want to make only passing reference to the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 2) and the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill. I will not wander far and wide as the honourable member for Moreton suggested Government members may well do. I want to make some pertinent observations about these Bills because they take into account the rises in costs that have occurred. It is proposed that amendments to the principal Act will be made each Budget session to take account of cost variations and that this will be done by the use of indexes based on the actual change in costs, whether it be in respect of salaries, building costs or the like. Honourable members will recall that already we have done this by way of legislation introduced following the recommendations of the Karmel Committee to take account of university and advanced education. Honourable members will be aware of the second and third recommendations in the report that was tabled today prepared by the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education and I am certain that the Government will follow them up. I suggest to the House that if there is any evidence needed that this Government gives education top priority these 2 Bills, together with the extra money provided under the States Grants (Schools) Bill that was debated some time ago, provided it. 
It is not an insignificant amount that is provided under these Bills- $47m for advanced education and non-government teachers' colleges and an extra $51m for universities, making a total of $98m. The importance of these 2 Bills should be looked at in relationship to the Government's total welfare program- schemes such as the Australian Assistance Plan, community health centres, child care, recreation and the like. But the very success of these programs depends on an adequate flow of trained personnel. In these Bills increased funding is provided for the training of personnel for these programs. We note that in the Bills there is an increased amount for the training of dental therapists, social workers and physical education teachers. There are also grants for teaching and research into community practices, social work and special education. 
As I indicated earlier, I want to concentrate my remarks on the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Bill.' I am personally delighted that the Whitlam Government has taken this initiative. I see it as the most important piece of legislation which is being commenced this financial year in the field of education. There is no doubt in my mind that technical and further education has been the neglected area in the field of education. In my own electorate the Dandenong Technical College is doing excellent work but under the most appalling conditions. I know that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  will recall that when he visited the Dandenong Technical College he saw the proliferation of portable classrooms- I think there were about 16 of them- in which post-secondary work was being done. I am encouraged to find that this urgently needed extensive building program is likely to get the green light. I know that it is a large program that may well cost in the nature of $4m. I am particularly pleased that it is the Whitlam Labor Government which is providing the $4m which is needed so desperately in that area not only to allow the college to continue its excellent work but also to give it the conditions in which to expand that work. 
I want to speak briefly on the Kangan report, which I would remind the honourable member for Moreton was tabled as long ago as April this year. It has been available for a long while. We have had the opportunity to look at it carefully. This was a landmark in the field of technical education. One can compare it, I believe, with the Karmel report and the place it had in relation to schools. The Kangan report provides what was desperately needed, that is, an over-arching report on the whole of the field of technical and further education. 
There are a number of reasons why I see the report as being of such importance. In the first place, it supports my own philosophy of education. I see education as a process commencing at birth- some would say earlier- and continuing throughout life. I believe that too often people look at education only in terms of the formal aspects- primary, secondary and tertiary. Too often we compartmentalise education; we place it in little boxes. What is needed is increased flexibility in our education system. For example, it is my belief that many young people would do much better to leave school at fifteen years of age than to continue. I say that with a good deal of experience in schools. The proviso I would make would be that they can get back into the education stream later. In the past this has been difficult, but increasingly we are breaking down the barriers. One of the things that I would commend is that an increasing number of adults are attending our secondary schools. Of course the technical colleges have been doing this sort of work and have been providing an alternative choice in the field for a number of years. 
I would like to look at one or two of the conclusions that the Kangan Committee came to. One that I would endorse relates to the matter of alternative choice. 
It states: 
Technical and further education has too often been thought of as something different from a tidy mainstream of education- primary, secondary and tertiary. The proper perspective for the fourth quarter of the twentieth century is for technical and further education to be seen as an alternativeneither inferior nor superior- to the other stream of education, but so organised as to enable interchange without personal disadvantage. 
In an earlier conclusion it stresses the importance of unrestricted access to education. 
There should be unrestricted access to assessments of knowledge and skills for the purpose of gaining formal qualifications, irrespective of where or how the individual prepared himself. Entry requirements should be progressively eased. 
I would hope that universities and, in some cases, advanced educational institutions would also progressively ease their entry requirements. I would certainly place on record that I believe that the present matriculation or higher school certificate examinations are a totally unsuitable criterion for entry. The technical and further education program is of great importance in that through the implementation of this report it will allow people to plug into the educational stream at whatever position they happen to be in at the present time. They will be able to learn either a particular skill or to broaden their general education. It will allow adult students- either by part time, full time or external studies- to learn at their own pace and at such times as is convenient to them. I endorse the approach of the Kangan Committee where it states that technical and further education should develop the general education of individuals as well as providing them with specialised skills. Remembering that we live in a world of rapid technological change, it is in this way that people will become confident to meet change because the breadth of their education will enable them to cope with this change and fit them for alternative employment. 
I should like briefly to turn to the details of the Bill. The Bill provides for an appropriation of $89m spread over a 2-year period, from 1 July 1974 to 30 June 1976. But this, of course, is not the full amount to be spent on technological and further education by this Government. An amount of $7.2m has been previously appropriated under technical training legislation but is unspent by the States. There is $3.45m that has been made available to the Australian Capital Territory for this work. A sum of $250,000 is being made available for research. I think I can foreshadow that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  will be moving an amendment in relation to the $ 1 8.8m that is mentioned in the report that was tabled today. The sum of $ 18.8m has been calculated as necessary for additional fee reimbursement. I believe that provision for this amount will be moved in an amendment later. That will make a total expenditure of $1 19m. It needs again to be stressed that the action of the Australian Government, in providing these additional funds to upgrade technical and further education through this national program rests on the assumption that the States efforts in financing this area of education will be maintained. 
I would remind the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  of the fact that we are not saying to the States: 'Stop your interest in technical and further education'. We are saying: 'Maintain it at the level of spending and interest as before but, in addition to that, we are providing you with $1 18m over the next 2 years in respect of which you can make your recommendations through your departments to the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education at this stage- later to the Commissionand then the Minister, in some cases, will exercise his discretion'. I should like to stress a couple of points. One of these points was made by the Minister, in his second reading speech, when he said:  ... we see considerable economies being effected if what are basically educational buildings are so designed that they are suitable for other uses. 
I stress the importance of the multi-purpose design and use of buildings and equipment, whether it is in schools, post-secondary institutions or tertiary institutions. I believe that in this way we will ensure the integration of community and educational needs. As one who has worked in schools I have been horrified to see buildings used for some 30 to 35 hours a week and lying idle for the rest of the time. However, I hasten to add that when I drive around the city in which I live and when I pass the technical college I notice that it is a hive of activity every week night. 
Then there is the proposal in the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Bill to set aside $56,000- not a large amount- for distribution among those States which wish to develop proposals for community colleges. I am aware of excellent work which is being done at present by the Darwin Community College. Almost by definition these colleges will vary in nature and scope in order to meet particular community needs. Their purpose is to provide a wide range of courses which could include courses to enable adults to make good deficiencies in their primary and secondary schooling. They could also provide courses at diploma level which are in demand by the community. I am pleased to note that the Bill takes account of the Committee's report which places emphasis on setting aside current expenditure grants for stimulating qualitative improvements by initiating a wide range of innovative measures. These specific grants for which the States will be expected to submit specific projects for approval include grants for the development of proposals for community colleges, as I have just mentioned. There are a number of other proposals. I believe that one important proposal is the provision of $2.4m which is set aside for in-service teaching staff development. 
In conclusion I say- I know that this disappointment is shared by a number of honourable members on this side of the House- that there is disappointment that we find it impossible to introduce legislation at this time to establish a technical and further education commission. I think the reason for this is fairly evident to honourable members; it is the pressure of parliamentary business. However, it should be made clear that the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education- the Richardson Committee as it is now known- will do the work which will later be undertaken by the commission. This Bill provides the States with money for work in this field. State governments have known for some time that this money would be forthcoming. I submit that the onus is now on the State governments adequately to plan how to spend this money so that the bold new initiatives outlined in the Kangan report can become a reality in the next 2 academic years. I commend the Bill to the House. 

MrB. Ross-NKS (Holdings) Ltd 
MrD. D. Wood- Department of Defence 

 Mr D. Sandersond;Department of Housing and Construction 

 Mr G. A. Low; Treasury 

 Mr V. White; Department of Labor and Immigration 
Mr G. Ramsden; Department of Manufacturing Industry 
MrM. Morrison- Department of Manufacturing Industry 

 Mr P. W. Alexander (Secretary) Department of Manufacturing Industry 21 October 1974 

 Mr D. J. O'Connor (Chairman); Department of Manufacturing Industry 
MrHJ.Souter-ACTU 


 Mr G. Butcher ACSPA 

 Mr B. Ross NKS (Holdings) Ltd 

 Mr G. A. Low Treasury 

 Mr D. D. Wood  Department of Defence 

 Mr D. Sanderson Department of Housing and Construction 
Mr G. Brown Department of Transport 

 Mr V. White Department of Labor and Immigration 

 Mr J. H. Dolphin Department of Manufacturing Industry 

 Mr A. Godfrey Department of Manufacturing Industry 

 Mr G. Ramsden Department of Manufacturing Industry 
-Has the Minister for Education seen the report on a proposal for the abolition of free tertiary education and free tertiary student allowances? What would be the effects of such a proposal? 
I think it is a reflection on the present state of the Opposition that the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  the new shadow Minister from the Australian Country Party, has to come to the defence of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  (Honourable members interjecting)- 
-The matter I bring to the attention of the House this evening concerns the activities of a group calling itself the Movement for Survival of Business and Industry. This group has been active in my electorate during the past couple of weeks. Certain of its activities deserve to be roundly condemned. Last Friday, 21 February, the group organised a public meeting in the Dandenong Town Hall. I believe that in excess of 1 000 invitations were sent out. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was the chief drawcard In fairness to the group it must be said that as the local member I was invited to attend and was told that if I wished to speak I would be able to do so. But this I was unable to do. 
I have a number of objections concerning both the organisation of this meeting and the movement itself. The invitation that was sent out was completely irresponsible. I hold it in my hand and, as honourable members can see, the envelope contains 2 words: 'Dandenong Destroyed'. In print, which is only just visible, are the letters SOB. In the vernacular these letters usually stand for a rather colourful American phrase, but in this instance presumably they stand for 'Survival of Business'. The invitation reads: 
We wish to announce that Dandenong could be destroyed as a result of current economic policies. We believe there is still time for people to secure the future of Dandenong and their own wellbeing. We invite you to attend a public meeting . . . 
I think it is significant to note that although thousands of invitations were sent out- I presume principally to business people- about 50 people only attended the meeting. It speaks volumes for the good sense and the responsible attitude of business leaders and people generally in the Dandenong area that despite the invitations and advertising prior to the meeting they chose not to attend that meeting. 
I presume the charge would be the same as for any meeting at which the honourable member for Griffith spoke- it would have to be nothing. In a pamphlet published by the SOB group is the statement: We wish to make it clear that the movement is non-political'. Yet in that same pamphlet under the heading 'Objectives' the 2 major objectives are listed as follows: 
To effect changes in the Australian Government's economic and industrial policies and their detrimental effect on business and industry. 
To act as a deterrent to the Australian Government's future decisions having a like result. 
In bold red print the pamphlet states: 
No system has ever been so savagely, viciously and blindly attacked as the free enterprise system today! 
It is interesting to take note of the reactionary people sitting on the Opposition benches because it is impossible to reconcile the objectives which I have just read and the nature of the invitation with the claim that the movement is nonpolitical. My reason for bringing this matter before the House is not that I dispute the right of any group, whether it is from the extreme right, the centre or the radical left to hold a public meeting. This, of course, is the right of any concerned group in a democratic society. What I object to is the irresponsibility of a group of businessmen who aim to put fear into the community with such outrageous statements as 'Dandenong destroyed'. These are the very people who are bewailing the present lack of business confidence. There is no way in which the actions of this group can be regarded as a constructive or a positive attempt to improve the present economic conditions; rather, they must be seen for what they are, destructive negative actions aimed at destroying the Labor Government. I trust that the dismal failure of last Friday's meeting will cause the leaders of this group to reexamine their methods and to look for constructive ways in which they can assist the whole community, and not be concerned just with themselves. It is regrettable that the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who is the shadow Minister on industrial matters, did not take the trouble to check the unemployment figures in the Dandenong area. 
-Yes, and he looks it. He knows or should know that the figure is not 10 per cent as he stated at the meeting. The true figure obtained from the Commonwealth Employment Service office- if he had bothered to ring the office or had contacted the Minister, or if he had bothered to speak to people in the local community, or even if he had read my regular monthly column in the local newspaper where it is there for everybody to read and is never hiddenhe would have learned that it is just above the national average. As honourable members are aware, the seasonally adjusted rate at the present time is 4 per cent. Therefore the exaggeration was about 100-fold. 

 Mr OLDMEADOW That is true. It is true that many industries and businesses in the Dandenong area are suffering serious difficulties. This I do not dispute. It is true also that many of the leaders of these businesses and factories, and the leaders of unions involved as well, have made representations to me as their local member. Whenever this has occurred I have made personal representations to the appropriate Minister and or his Department. This I will continue to do, of course. There are other business leaders with serious problems who have not contacted me and I issue an invitation to them to do so in order that I, as their local member, can try to assist them. It can only do injury to the country's economy when groups such as SOB act in an irresponsible, destructive and divisive way as they have done in my electorate in the last couple of weeks. 
-Although I had listed myself to speak on the Family Law Bill I had decided to withdraw. I felt that other honourable members who had spoken in this debate had adequately and in many cases far more efficiently represented my view on the procedural and technical questions surrounding the proposed legislation. The second reading speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the practical expression of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  had gone further and had demonstrated a philosophical consensus of public opinion supported by all the elements of sound practical common sense. The report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and the subsequent exhaustive but necessary debate in the other place on this Bill had, it seemed to me, covered every point of contention. The debate in the other place and to date in this House has been carried out with conviction and candour. There seemed little if anything new that was left to say. My entry into this debate therefore has to have a valid reason, which I believe I have. 
I wish to speak as one who is and has been active in the Christian Church for most of my life and a lay preacher for nearly 30 years. I wish to speak on behalf of a very significant section of the Christian Church which supports the Bill and opposes the amendment. In the Church of which I am a member, the Methodist Church, the  President  General, the Reverend Rex Mathias and the Departments of Christian Citizenship have spoken out firmly in support of the proposed changes. However, I know that this does not mean that all members of the Methodist Church support the Bill. The situation appears to be similar in the Presbyterian and Anglican churches. It is also equally clear that some members of the Roman Catholic Church are supporting the Bill. It is right that churches and church members should be deeply concerned about this important piece of social legislation, certainly the most significant in the last decade. However, social behaviour and human concern are not subjects which are the exclusive prerogatives of Christians. It is the epitome of arrogance to think so. The attitude of 'we know best' in matters which concern legislation for the whole community as distinct from those of us who hold interpretive religious positions is one which is gravely misunderstood and dallies with the sin of selfrighteousness. 
Let me hasten to say that I do not seek to deprecate the religious and moral convictions of those who, like the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  hold views which, after the consideration of the same basic facts of faith, reach different conclusions about the frameworks of law in a pluralist society. Rather I respect those who for themselves and the groups, societies and churches to which they belong, accept philosophies, concepts and practices which they believe are valid. It is, however, one thing to acknowledge the rights and convictions of those described to practise and to recommend, even to urge, others to accept; it is quite another to support amendments which by legislation impose thought systems, theological propositions and religious sanctions which may or may not be relevant in respect to those who seek the resolution of their problems within the protection of the secular law of the State. 
Opposition to the most controversial aspect of the Bill, that of irretrievable breakdown in marriage as the single ground of dissolution, emanates chiefly from certain bishops of the Church and from the self-appointed guardians of public morals, the Festival of T.ight. T  regret  to say that the supporting arguments by certain of these pressure groups are not always as careful as they might be in their exaggerated claims for the total body of Christian opinion. Indeed, I regard it as a duty to seek to represent a concerned and informed strength of support within the Christian community for the humane proposals of the Bill, undergirded by the setting up of family courts, a family law council and an institute of family studies- aspects which have been conveniently ignored or brushed aside by the emotive claims of the 'no fault' argument. 
In this debate opposing speakers have affirmed their belief that the family is the basic and stable unit of Australian society or that marriage should be buttressed or that full and proper recognition should be given to wives, mothers and children. It should be clearly and unequivocally understood that those of us who support the legal and procedural provisions of the Bill have not abandoned that belief, nor do we reject the basis of commitment which for some of us was and is enshrined within our religious convictions. 
If divorce is recognised in our society, the responsibility of lawmakers must be to devise and place on statute the means whereby such breakdowns are dealt with in terms of human dignity and common justice. If, on the other hand, certain groups within the community believe that their religious convictions prohibit their taking advantage of courses of law open to them and that they must therefore oppose reforming legislation for others who may not share the same binding religious principle, then, although at all times such groups should be accepted, they must be strenuously opposed when the imposition of that principle is sought within the inclusion of the law. 
It may indeed be the duty of some of us to expound another and for some a far more important aspect of Christian teaching, that which supersedes a doctrinal or ecclesiastical principlethe imperative cry of compassion and charity. My plea then is unashamedly on the grounds of personal Christian conviction and my conscience vote on this issue is consistent with a lifelong experience of situations both within and outside the Church- situations of misery, distress and trauma. A Bill which so comprehensively grapples with these problems and provides the enlightenment of enabling legislation claims my support along with that of countless others who would call themselves Christians. 
I would be guilty of the self-righteousness which I have so roundly deplored if I did not also recognise that others who have spoken in support of this Bill have reached their conclusions from different terms of reference and different processes of logic. I have said that those of us who claim membership in the various branches of the Christian church do not have a monopoly of wisdom, of social morality or of human compassion and concern. The points which have been made by others, particularly those who have carefully considered the technical aspect of the Bill, are accepted and welcomed by those of us less skilled in the area of legal detail. I believe, however, that speakers from this side have demonstrated a realistic and humanitarian concern sometimes sadly lacking among the more extremist and hard core propagandists from the opposing forces. 
I remind honourable members opposing the Bill and supporting the amendment moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation that the vital and continuing buttress of marriage is not the legal contract, however important that looms in the kind of society in which we live. Marriage is buttressed and sustained by mutual love, cooperation and respect. It takes effort and resourcefulness to keep it alive. For some of us it may have religious implications which are paramount. So be it. But when, by all human and social judgments, by all personal and conjugal standards, the relationship has been destroyed, it cannot be saved by the law. The law can serve only to examine, to test and finally to determine that on the basis of the contract, not on religious conviction which it is not competent to exercise, such a marriage should be dissolved. The manner and the method of this process is the subject of the Bill. I support it with enthusiasm and conviction. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it true that the Australian Medical Association has sent out a letter to its members asking them to sabotage the Medibank scheme? Is the Minister aware of the contents of this letter? To what extent is this action likely to jeopardise a smooth introduction of the scheme on 1 July? 
I welcome the opportunity to speak to this Bill. I offer congratulations to the Interim Curriculum Council under Professor Evans for the quality of the report that it has made. In responding to the speech of the honourable member for Stun (  Mr Wilson),  may I say that I think the fears he has expressed are without basis. Equally, we on this side of the House would be horrified at the thought of all texts being produced in Canberra. I would agree with him that I do not want to see any type of national curricula being developed for all schools in Australia. 
This Bill has to be seen in the context of the total education program of the Whitlam Government, which has had such spectacular success in the past  2  years. The Government has provided initiatives throughout the whole spectrum of education; from pre-school education through to adult education. True, the major thrust has been made through the Schools Commission at the school level. Again, in this Bill the emphasis is on the needs basis. Here, a serious attempt is being made to increase resource facilities in our schools. 
The fundamental aim of the proposed centre was stated precisely and succinctly by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  when he said that it was to foster curriculum and material development from pre-school to post-secondary levels. The word 'needs' means more than providing the greatest immediate financial aid to those schools in deprived areas. It certainly means more equipment and more of the tools to do the job. This is the quantitative aspect of the needs concept. In addition there is a qualitative aspect, and it means to undertake curriculum development, which means promoting and developing new teaching methods, syllabuses and new learning materials. 
All the programs that have been initiated by this Government are symptoms of the great revolution that is taking place in educational philosophy. In essence they are aiming at an education which promotes the total development of the individual. Fortunately we are moving away from terms like 'primary', 'secondary' and 'tertiary' when we speak of education. More and more we see it as a continuing process from birth to death- a life-long gaining of knowledge and wisdom. What is at the heart of all these programs is the type of learning experience people have and its relevance to their lives- in fact, one might say a curriculum for living. On this point I think I am in agreement with the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  when he spoke of the relevance to life around the people. 
Anyone who has been closely associated with schools, as J have, cannot but be aware of the revolution taking place in curriculum development. Individual States have done a great deal of research in this direction. Since 1 have been a member of this Parliament 1 have taken the opportunity of personally inspecting educa tion systems in most of the States. What strikes one most forcibly is the tremendous diversity of curricula and methods. These range from open class-room situations to the old serried rows of desks, from the totally integrated programs through to the most traditional subject-orientated, exam-based methods, and from pupil involvement to teacher dominated lessons. 
I have never regarded myself as one who has ever seen any particular method or body of fact as being the only approach to education. It is the teacher and the school in conjunction with the parents and students who should be working out the curriculum best suited for pupils in the school. Honourable members will recall that it was in the Karmel report that the term 'devolution of responsibility' was used. There is no contradiction here between the concept of devolution of responsibility and the setting up of a national body which would provide the material from which people could draw wherever they may be, whether on a school council, in a group of teachers or within a State education system. 
When one looks across the full educational spectrum there is evidence that this devolution of responsibility is beginning to happen. There are, however, very few schools which have been able to achieve this ideal. Indeed, it would seem that some schools are far from this ideal. We have heard a great deal recently of students, some of whom have completed their secondary education, who are classified as functionally illiterate. They have an inability to read, and hence a severe limitation on their ability to communicate. There are no easy answers to a problem like this, but we must ask ourselves whether our present teaching practices are at fault. The answer, or at least some of the answer, might well be there. One decisive advantage in having a national body to investigate and initiate research into the whole range of learning experience is that we will come closer to finding answers to this and other problems. Let me emphasise again the need for diversity of approach, adaptability both in method and use of aids in teaching, and- of paramount importance - the individual differences between the students, which should always be the determining factor. 
This Bill setting up a Curriculum Development Centre as a statutory body is another milestone and again demonstrates the involvement of the Whitlam Government in all the needs of schools. One might ask: Why can all this not be done through existing State education systems where groups are already involved in this work? I believe the answer is simple. It is essential to have a national body which has this over-arching role between the States so that it can facilitate the exchange of ideas. One only has to realise the difficulties of a student moving from one State to another to see the need for co-ordination and the need for a central bank of inspiration and innovation which can be passed from one State to another according to their needs. This Centre will also be better placed to obtain and disseminate the best and latest educational research from overseas. The proposed Centre is not a duplication of what is already in existence. It is not in competition. It will be a complementary body, and in this context it is significant to note that all State Education Ministers have given this proposal their full support. Of course, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Sturt, it is well to remember that previous governments gave support to national curriculum programs. These included the national science education project, the program to stimulate the teaching of Asian languages and cultures in our schools at a cost of $1.5m, and the national committee on social science teaching. This Bill takes all this one step further. It will formalise all efforts into one statutory body. I would like to draw honourable member's attention to clause 47 of this Bill, which gives the Centre wide powers of consultation and co-operation with appropriate authorities in all States, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. This applies to authorities responsible for pre-school, primary and secondary education in government and non-government schools. I would hasten to reassure the honourable member for Sturt that this body will be looking for co-operation. I believe that the important point here is that very close co-operation will take place between this body, the various State educational authorities and also the Schools Commission. I would underline the imperative nature of the close link that must be maintained between this statutory body that is being appointed and the Schools Commission. 
I draw to the attention of the House a Press release by the Minister for Education in Victoria,  Mr Thomson,  on 8 April. He announced then that he was preparing legislation to establish a Victorian institute of secondary education as a statutory body to carry out curriculum research and to encourage experimentation and the modernisation of secondary education. He also announced the formation of an advisory committee on this matter. I bring this matter to the attention of honourable members because I must express some surprise at the timing of this announcement. I recall that it was when we were talking about pre-schools, the work that was going on in that field, and the Fry report, that the Victorian Government suddenly started to take an interest. As one who taught in the Victorian system for 25 years, I am well aware of the need for such a body, but again I would express surprise that the Victorian Government should have chosen to announce it just at the time when this Bill was coming forward. I hope that such a body, when it comes into existence, will cooperate to the full with the Curriculum Development Centre. 
In conclusion, I believe it is absolutely imperative that the link, liaison and consultation between the Curriculum Development Centre and the Schools Commission should be strong, constant and continuing. If this is achieved, the Curriculum Development Centre will play an essential role in ensuring a meaningful, stimulating learning experience in our schools for all students. 
-Is the Minister for Education aware of delays being experienced by students in the payment of allowances under the tertiary education assistance scheme? If so, can the Minister inform the House where the delays are occurring, the reasons for the delays and what measures are being taken to overcome the problem? 
-I welcome the opportunity to speak in this cognate debate. I want to concentrate my remarks on the Social Services Bill 1975. Other speakers from the Government side will refer to the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill 1975. 1 was delighted to hear the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  say that pensions would not, if the Opposition were in power, be a political football. Of course, he has a very short memory. I refer him to the time when the Opposition was in government and pensions were just that. Every time there was an election it dangled the counter bid in front of the electors of how much money was going to be handed out. 
When this Government came to power it made a promise which it has kept. It stated that every 6 months an adjustment would be made in the rates of pension and it would strive to ensure that the rate of pension reached 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. If the Opposition has learnt nothing else in opposition but the fact that pensioners are not to be held to ransom every time there is an election and a carrot dangled in front of them to try to win their vote maybe its period in opposition has not been completely in vain. 
The honourable member for Hotham referred also to the abuse of the unemployment benefit. We are aware of this. I think the term used by the honourable member for Hotham, when referring to people abusing unemployment benefit, was 'bludgers'. We have seen in the Press the use of similar statements to that used by the honourable member for Hotham. We know that it is an easy type of statement to make and it is very difficult to assess the accuracy of such a statement. Of course it is true that in any system of 1 social welfare- the honourable member for Hotham is aware of this- there will be a percentage of people who will abuse that system. I submit to this House that the majority are not abusing unemployment benefit. It is an insignificant minority that would abuse such benefits by being the type of person who would register in 2 places or some such subterfuge as this. 
I have had plenty of reports made to me and I have always said to the person: 'Give me the name of the person who is abusing unemployment benefit and we will have the matter investigated '. In all the claims that I have heard made, only one name has been given to me, and that case was investigated. I have heard such claims made by the Opposition. I trust that members of the Opposition are doing their part and are reporting such matters to the Department of Social Security so that investigations can be carried out. We, as a government, naturally would not want people to be abusing unemployment benefit. We would want them stopped from doing so, if this is the case, and appropriate action taken against them. Of course, the honourable member for Hotham also is aware that the work test is, in fact, carried out at the present time. I put to him: Is a system that is good to be discontinued because of a few people? I submit that this system that we have developed since we have been in office is one based on social concern. 
The principal features of the Bill were outlined by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in his second reading speech. I should like to repeat them. They are: To make a substantial increase in the basic rate of pensions and benefits; an increase in additional payments for children; the implementation of the second step in the Government's program to abolish the means test on age pensions; provision for unemployment, sickness and special benefits weekly in advance instead of weekly in arrears; and provision for the imediate payment of special benefit for people newly discharged from prison. These are the obvious and readily discernible provisions of the Bill. What is not so obvious- but what should be clearly understood- is that this is a continuation of the record of the Whitlam Government, to seek out constantly new ways of making a life of dignity for those who receive any form of welfare payment. These payments are a right; not a handout. They are not charity. They are the free entitlement of all people in Australia who, for one reason or another, find themselves in a situation where they are recipients of these benefits. This Bill is also a clear recognition by this Government of the need to increase benefits. This applies particularly to pensions, so that the most vulnerable people in the community do not suffer needlessly in an inflationary period. 
Since the Labor Government took office in December 1972 its record of pension and benefit increases has, I believe, been outstanding. On the first day of the first session of the Parliament it introduced a Bill to provide increases in all pensions, unemployment and sickness benefits. Since then not only has the social welfare system been rationalised; benefits and pensions have increased at a far greater rate than increases in prices and wages. Let us look briefly at the advances the Whitlam Government has made in this area and compare them with the record of its predecessors. In October 1972 the married pensioner couple rate was $34.50 a week. By July 1974 this had been increased to $51.50 a week- an increase of 49.3 per cent. This compares with an increase of 3 1 .6 per cent in the consumer price index and a 40. 1 per cent increase in average weekly earnings. This legislation seeks to increase the pensioner couple rate to $60 a week, another step in the expressed aim of adjusting the pensioner rate twice yearly until it reaches 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
The increase in unemployment benefits and sickness benefits has been even more spectacular. In October 1972 the weekly payment to a single recipient more than 21 years of age was $17. By July 1974 this had been increased to $31 a week- an increase of 82.4 per cent, compared with a 31.6 per cent increase in the consumer price index and a 40.1 per cent increase in average weekly earnings. Of course this Bill increases that amount to $36 per week. So I could go on citing these striking examples of the Whitlam Government's continued progress in the area of social welfare and how this contrasts with the inactivity of the Liberal-Country Party governments when they were in office for 23 years. 
One of the most outstanding examples is the first historic step towards the abolition of the means test on age pensions which was taken by this Government in September 1973. Since that date all residentially qualified members of the community aged 75 years or more have been able to receive age pensions free of the means test. We are now taking the second step on our program for abolishing the means test for pensioners more than 65 years of age. This Bill will give effect to that second stage. Age pensions, free of means test, will be made available to people in the 70 to 74 years of age group as from 1 May. This of course will increase the number of people eligible. An estimated 43 000 people who are currently receiving pensions at reduced rates will benefit from this measure by becoming entitled to payment at the maximum rate. In addition to that, an estimated 56 000 people who are now excluded because of their means will become eligible. 
Nobody would question the need to increase pensions and to keep them up to reasonable living standards. In this Bill we have kept to our promise to abolish the means test for everybody over 70 years of age. However, there would be some who would question the priority of need, whether the Government should as its next step reduce the age of eligibility by 5 years, or whether it should phase in the means test abolition over a number of yearly periods. It is my own view- I underline that it is my own viewthat the next step should be to reduce the means test-free age to 69 years next year, then to 68, and so on. 
-Yes. This is what I am referring to. I stress that it is my view. I repeat that I say this because on the priority of need I for one would want to see the base pension kept at a relatively high rate. The aim is 25 per cent of average weekly earnings and that promise must be kept. 
Another significant step forward in this Bill is the proposal to make unemployment, sickness and special benefit payments weekly in advance instead of weekly in arrears. The honourable member for Hotham said that in this case we are copying Liberal Party policy. I suggest to him that some of the things that are now stated in 'The Way Ahead ' are lift-outs of policy that have been espoused by this Party and in fact are being put into practice. The effect of this measure, of course, will be to reduce by 7 days the time it takes the claims claimant to receive the first benefit cheque. This has been happening since January and illustrates the deep concern of this Government about the delays which have occurred in paying benefits, particularly unemployment benefits. 
There is still another highly important part of this legislation which is worthy of comment, not because of its cost to the Government but because it recognises an area of social deprivation never before taken into consideration by any government in Australia. I refer to the special benefit to be paid immediately to people newly discharged from prison. Criminologists and penologists will affirm that a majority of our gaol population are recidivists, that is, people who relapse into crime and return again and again to prison. A clearly definable reason for this is that in many cases they are not given an adequate opportunity to re-establish themselves within the community. They leave gaol with little money, sometimes only a dollar or two. They are faced with considerable expense in securing accommodation. They have outstanding debts which have accumulated while they have been in prison and many are left to rely on handouts from churches and welfare and voluntary charitable organisations. They have paid their debt to society but in this sense they are still being punished. The end result of this is that many of them again lapse into crime and in many cases return to gaol. 
This Government is keenly aware of this problem and the need to salvage these people for useful and fruitful lives in the community. The Government has taken in this legislation another step to fill a gap in our social security system which should not have been allowed to continue. The rate of benefit, means test and method of assessment and entitlement will be in accordance with the normal unemployment and sickness benefit provisions, whichever are appropriate. The idea of this special benefit payment is to tide these people over until they qualify for either unemployment benefit or sickness benefit. But it is hoped that with the worry of finding food and shelter when they leave prison lifted from their shoulders they will be able to find jobs and return to society as useful citizens. This benefit will decisively change the present objective circumstances which make so many of these people relapse into crime. 
For this provision alone this measure would be a great step forward in social concern. But it is much more than that. In the current session of this Parliament we have considered a number of Bills and we are considering some of them at present. I mention the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill, the Children's Commission Bill, the National Compensation Bill, the Road Safety and Standards Authority Bill. We have seen the passage of the Bill for the establishment of Medibank, to come into operation on 1 July. All these measures are progressive and forwardlooking within themselves, but when they are taken as a whole one sees them as elements in a program of social concern and as essential items in the great objective we are seeking- to establish the rational use of the community's resources towards a life style which allows the fulfilment of the best aspirations of all Australians. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I welcome the opportunity to speak briefly to this Bill. I refer in the first place to certain points made by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  particularly his preoccupation with the Government's total philosophy in relation to this Bill and what lies behind it. I will try to demonstrate in what I have to say that there is a fairly broad philosophy behind the legislation. 
It is of interest to note the second reading speech that was made by the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  when he was the Minister for Labor and National Service. I want to emphasise that it was he, as the then Minister for Labor and National Service, who brought in the Bill on childcare. Honourable members opposite talk about philosophy. What was the philosophy that existed in relation to child care when the Opposition was in government? The limited philosophy that existed then in relation to child care is apparent from reading what the then Minister had to say in his second reading speech. He said: 
The Government's initiative springs from its concern for the welfare of children of working mothers. The increase of working mothers in the labour force is a phenomenon of modern industrial society. 
Further on the then Minister said:  ... a substantial number of such mothers cannot make satisfactory arrangements for the care of their pre-school aged children is yet another fact. The purpose of this scheme is to meet the existing problem. 
I submit that there is very little philosophy in this. It is a case of an ad hoc arrangement whereby one tried to meet a particular problem that existed in the community at the time. I suggest that the decision to establish the Children's Commission is a thought-out approach and one on which some work has been done before. It is true that committees were set up to examine this matter and they brought forward reports. The Commission which is the subject of this legislation has resulted from those reports. 
The Children's Commission will take its place alongside the Schools Commission, Technical and Further Education Commission, the Australian Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education. What I have said does not mean that I subscribe to the view that the Children's Commission is to be seen as a body concerned solely with education unless one takes the term 'education' in its broadest sense of meaning the total development of the personality of the child. The intent of the Government in creating a Children's Commission is to provide an imaginative and comprehensive range of services so that not just one group of children, not just the children of working mothers, but all children will have access to those services best designed to promote their wellbeing and to improve the quality of their lives and the lives of their parents. 
The temptation, of course, in a measure such as this is to take the simplistic view that bricks and mortar and some well-trained teachers and supervisors can fulfil the needs of all children. This temptation has been studiously avoided. The Government has seen a human need and the necessity for taking a human, flexible approach to it. I would stress that the emphasis is placed in the involvement of the community, whether by way of a community organisation, local government, or whatever form it might take. 
Last night the honourable member for Lilley spoke of the unnecessary bureaucratisation of the care of children in Australia. I do not quite know what he means by that term but if I understand the term 'bureaucracy' right I would have thought that what we are doing is quite the reverse to what he put forward. Instead it is bringing this activity down to the local level where people will have the opportunity to put forward the schemes that suit them in their situation. 
One of the features of the mode of approach by the Government is the recognition that in certain areas there is very little interest in child care. Therefore it is necessary to put into these areas catalysts, people who will arouse interest so that these areas will not be forgotten. It so often happens that it is only people in the more affluent areas who are interested enough to organise. This has been the story so often in regard to preschools. People there are prepared to spend the time but in the areas of greatest need there is the least number of pre-schools. I welcome the appointment of catalysts even for one year appointments as will be the case in this year's program. 
In my electorate of Holt we have been particularly fortunate in the area of child services. An announcement was made a month or so ago that grants were to be made for this project. I was pleased that the Holt electorate certainly had not been forgotten. Grants have been allocated for pre-school centres in the municipalities of Springvale, Dandenong, Cranbourne and Pakenham. Naturally I was delighted to see this boost to pre-schools in the electorate. I was perhaps even more pleased to see that grants had been made to an after school project put forward by the social planner of the City of Berwick. This is a commendable approach to the problem of latch-key children and is part and parcel of the full spectrum of child care services. I am also pleased that money has been set aside for family care services in the Springvale municipality. 
I am pleased that this legislation is encouraging the full use of existing facilities. In many areas of Victoria, if not most, we have the remarkable situation of superbly designed preschools and day care centres built to the extremely demanding standards of the Victorian Department of Health, yet those buildings are in use for only about 24 hours a week. Too often the same applies to schools which are used for a maximum of about 35 hours a week. In these circumstances one is moved to comment that public moneys are not being used adequately. On the other hand we see councils, committees and organisations of various kinds renting homes for child care and other activities while schools and pre-school centres are being used for minimum periods. 
I cite an example in my electorate which suggests to me the way in which a school should be used. It is the example of the principal of Doveton Technical School,  Mr Eric  Bawden who has taken the lead in seeing that his school is used as fully as possible. He has a great variety of adult education courses running and the school hall is frequently let. Every facility there is made available to the community. I believe that this approach must be followed in the future. I note that  Mr Bawden  has also made a submission to the Interim Children's Commission for a creche to be built at his school for the use of teachers and parents. In a situation like this there is a minimum expenditure of capital with a maximum return in terms of benefits for the community. I believe there have been some technical hold-ups but I hope that they can be overcome. 
I think all this points to the need for greater diversity in our approach to school and pre-school buildings. This means designing these buildings for a multi-purpose approach rather than restricting them specifically to the use of students and pre-schoolers. Planners, in addition to considering a multi-purpose approach, should give consideration to matters such as the increasing age of the community and the sharp decline in the birth rate as shown in the figures from the Bureau of Statistics. It may well be that the child care centre or pre-school centre of today has a different use in a generation's time. We must not ignore the use of homes for family day care where trained personnel could assist mothers of suitable temperament in this situation to look after their children. It is here that a small amount of money can be expended in order to make that home or church hall suitable for some type of child care work. 
The other aspect which I want to stress in the few minutes I have available to me is the diversity of approach which is recommended in the work of the Children's Commission. It should be looked at from the point of view of providing help to all sorts of organisations within the community, including local government. This work ranges through full day care, family day care, pre-school education, emergency care, occasional care and before and after school care. One could go on to mention holiday care, play groups and, in fact, any other child care activity. Where there is a demand the challenge is to meet that demand. There is one other decisively important aspect of the Bill which I think is worthy of comment. I refer to clause 5, sub clause 3 and its paragraphs. These ensure that the Commission will give priority to providing services for children in circumstances where the greatest need exists. It means meeting the needs of children suffering disadvantages because of social, economic, health, ethnic, locational, cultural, lingual or other reasons. It means, in effect, encouraging diversity, flexibility and innovation in the provision of services for children. With these aims in mind it becomes obvious that the need for a Children's Commission is real and urgent. However, one would concede the need for the closest and most amicable co-operation between the Schools Commission and the Children's Commission, both of which have an essential but individual role to play in the full development of our children and young people. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-My question is directed to the Special Minister for State and I ask: Is he aware of any threat to the Government's child care program? Can he inform the House of the consequences to the children of Australia of obstructing this program? 
-Is the Minister for Education aware that concern has been expressed by technical school teachers and those interested in technical schools at the apparent failure of Australian Government funds to get through to the schools? Can the Minister tell the House how much money has been made available for technical schools this year? What is the current situation? 
I will not waste my time by replying to the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  Suffice to say that we on this side of the House can well understand the chagrin of the National Country Party in regard to the democratic decision of the Caucus to reaffirm the policy of the Government to set the floor price of wool at 250c a kilo. I remind the honourable member for Lyne of the policy on wool when the Liberal-Country Party Government was in power. I have no doubt whatever that the woolgrower today is in a much better position due to the policy of this Government than was ever the case in the past. 
I bring to the attention of the House tonight the critical financial situation being faced by Victorian hospitals in general and the even more grave situation being faced by the hospital in my electorate- the Dandenong and District Hospital. The  Chairman  of the Victorian Hospitals Association,  Mr Ron  Shepherd, is reported in the Age' as saying that Victorian hospitals are in their worst financial crisis in history. He says that by the end of next month they will be $40m in debt. Figures for the Dandenong and District Hospital will not be available for a week or two, but suffice it to say that this hospital has been, I am told, up to 120 days behind in paying its debts. Another grave crisis is due when these figures are released. To put it bluntly, the hospital is in a bad way financially, reflecting the general parlous situation of public hospitals in Victoria. 
At the outset I say that I have nothing but the greatest admiration for the staff of the Dandenong and District Hospital. The story, over the years, reflects considerable credit on the dedicated and diligent staff members who, at all times, give of their best in far from ideal conditions. It is a pity that I cannot say the same for the people responsible for supplying the essential funds to keep this overworked hospital going. Of course, as one who has taken a keen interest in the work of this hospital and, I might add, as one who has worked to improve conditions there, I am delighted that a significant capital works program at the Dandenong and District Hospital is finally under way. But this hospital stands out as one which has had the rawest of raw deals over the years. Let us go back to 1964 when the then Victorian Premier, now  Sir Henry  Bolte, promised in his election speech that Dandenong would be made a base hospital. That promise has never been honoured. 
The money which has been doled out to this hospital for many years has meant that it has been built in what has been described as a skeleton form. It had a ground floor, kitchen and boiler house which have proved so inadequate, particularly in view of the new block which has been added, that the hospital will have to be completely rebuilt. Other sections of the hospital were added piecemeal. One stage was opened in 1967. This gave an extra 44 beds. At a later stage the basement and the first floor were completed, giving a total of 167 beds. The hospital staff struggled along with this until July of last year when a temporary prefabricated ward was added to give another 40 beds. There was good reason for this section being added quickly. It was urgently needed to give beds for serious medical cases. About 50 per cent of these were road trauma cases. The Dandenong and District Hospital has the unique but somewhat doubtful distinction of dealing with road trauma cases from a very wide area. Instead of the emphasis of this hospital being on the district, it serves an area far wider than its capacity will permit. 
There are many reasons why the Dandenong and District Hospital should have been given, over the years, a top priority in Victorian Government hospital spending. The Dandenong and District Hospital has the shortest bed stay of any hospital in Victoria. The average is from 4.8 days to 5.3 days per patient. When it is considered that many of the patients in the hospital are long term road trauma and geriatric cases, one can only register amazement at the short stay of many surgical cases which maintain this alarmingly short average bed stay. Some idea of the work done by the hospital can be gauged by these figures. With 205 beds available it treated 10 760 in-patients for the year ending 30 June 1974. A comparable hospital is the Wimmera Base Hospital which has 207 beds. In the same period it treated 3494 in-patients. The Dandenong and District Hospital carried 2.5 times the workload. In addition, the Dandenong and District Hospital's average cost per in-patient treated was $288; the average cost at the Wimmera Base Hospital was $320. Another comparable hospital is Box Hill which has 298 beds and an average cost per in-patient of $4 1 7. 
Any hospital administrator will affirm that about 80 per cent occupancy of beds gives the most efficient service to patients in a large industrial area, which is the case here. Beyond this ratio one comes to a point where the staff is overstrained. Senior members of the Dandenong and 
District Hospital are being put to extremes by the situation which they have to face daily. Yet they still do their jobs with outstanding and highly commendable efficiency. We face the unpalatable truth that health services in this area have lagged far behind the growth of the community. The hospital has insufficient beds and services to meet the demands being made not only by its own community but also by a much wider area. Promises made by the Victorian Government to provide the necessary funds for capital development have been broken. The Australian Government, through the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham),  has stated clearly that the Dandenong and District Hospital has top priority in Victoria after the western suburbs. I was most disappointed to find at the recent meeting of the Joint Hospital Works Advisory Committee that the Victorian Hospitals and Charities Commission did not include Dandenong in the projects for which it sought direct Australian Government funding. I trust that this does not indicate that the Commission has lowered the priority which the Australian Government rightly allocated to the Dandenong and District Hospital. 
It is not without some irony that this gravely critical situation affecting hospitals in Victoria has been brought so forcibly to light at a time when that State's Health Minister is still only toying with the idea of accepting the hospital side of Medibank.  His  tactics to date have caused delays which will mean that the hospital side of Medibank will not be able to start until after Christmas. This is at great financial cost to hospitals like the Dandenong and District Hospital and to the people of Victoria generally. I am not suggesting that general acceptance by that Minister of the full Medibank scheme, that is, both medical and hospital, would solve all the problems of all Victorian hospitals overnight. However, when one considers the generous terms which the Australian Government has outlined for funding hospitals under the Medibank scheme, it would go a considerable way to helping overcome a situation which cannot be described merely as being serious. It is downright alarming. It is no exaggeration to say that action must be taken now. We can contemplate any additional delay at this point only with dismay because any hesitation in meeting this situation fully head-on, and on time, will mean that all hospitals- including the Dandenong and District Hospital- will have been pushed beyond breaking point. 
-Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that attempts are being made to strike down the Australian Legal Aid Office scheme? Will the Minister inform the House what it will mean to the people of Australia if these challenges are successful? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Has application been made by the Victorian Government for a middle level college at Dandenong Technical College over the last 5 years; if so, what was Dandenong 's position on the list of priorities put forward by the Victorian Government. 
Did he approve expenditure for a middle level college at Dandenong in January 1975; if so, what position did this project have on the Victorian list of priorities. 
Did the Victorian Government present a new list of priorities in March 1975; if so, what was the priority of the Dandenong Technical College, and were funds made available for this project. 
What money has been made available for capital expenditure at Dandenong Technical College since 1970. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What (a) loans and (b) grants have been made by the Australian Government to the Victorian Government for the Victorian Railways in each year since December 1 972. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What sum has the Victorian Government spent on capital works on technical schools from funds provided by the Australian Government during the last five years. 
What funds were provided to Victoria under the States Grants (Technical Training) Act by the Australian Government in the same period. 
What funds have been provided to Victoria under the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Act 1974. 
-Is the Minister for Urban and Regional Development aware of statements made by the Victorian State Minister of Water Supply and Forests that Melbourne's sewerage program will be drastically restricted as a result of a cut-back in the Australian Government allocation? Will the Minister inform the House of the size of allocations for sewerage works in Victoria in this year's Budget? Is the Victorian Minister's statement compatible with the call of his Federal Leader for further Budget restraint? 
-I welcome the opportunity of participating in this debate. I think it is significant that the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  made brief reference to the increase in postal charges. But last night, for the life of me, I could hear no indication that this was one of the concessions that would be handed out in the alternative proposals of the Opposition.  Mr Speaker,  I draw to your attention that a few days after the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  presented the Budget to this House and to the nation, a pamphlet bearing a photograph of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was delivered to homes in my electorate and, I think, to other electorates in Australia. The heading on this pamphlet read: 'The REAL Facts About Labor's Budget are these . . .'.I must confess to being more than a little intrigued with that phrase 'The REAL Facts'. After all, facts are facts. If they are facts they are real; if they are not facts they are unreal. So it is possible that the writer of the pamphlet emphasised the word 'REAL' to obscure the unreality of the rest of the pamphlet. 
The pamphlet, as one would expect of a Liberal publication, was highly critical of the Government's Budget. It was written in terms which implied that there would be handouts if the Opposition were to be in power. Last night we heard the Leader of the Opposition reply to the Budget Speech. Again, this same sort of unreality was the characteristic. There was no relationship between his proposed cuts in government expenditure and the handouts which he proposed. Yet he was critical of the size of the Government's deficit. Of course, he spoke in some detail of his proposed handouts- the introduction of the Mathews Report proposals over 3 years, abolition of increases in indirect taxes, increased personal tax deductions, reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty and the like. But he failed to give any detailed costing. 
As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  pointed out this morning, these concessions would amount to a massive $2,470m. Yet when it came to the cutbacks in government expenditure the Leader of the Opposition simply gave a few examples of where these cuts would be made. But when one does the calculations- one would have thought that in this respect the honourable member for Berowra, who is an ex-professor, could have helped him- one finds only about $630m. Despite the statement of the Leader of the Opposition that the present Government's deficit is too high, if he had done his arithmetic accurately he would have found that the total deficit under his proposals would have soared to a figure approximating $4,600m. There is no doubt what the Leader of the Opposition would do when faced with such a deficit if he were to get into government; he would make further massive cuts in government expenditure. He would pay for the handouts by dismantling the social program that this Government has introduced over the past  Vh  years. In other words he proposes to rob the poor to pay the rich. 
To take just one example, one of the few proposals he mentioned is the one to dismantle the Australian Legal Aid Offices. What a disaster that would be. The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  pointed out this morning the tremendous response that has come forward since these offices were first put into effect. They help the very people who desperately needed the reform. I think the Attorney-General mentioned that there had been about 130 000 inquiries. These were made by people who in the past under the Liberal-Country Party rule were never able to get legal advice. But I guess that is not important to the people sitting on the other side of the chamber. Their concern has never been for the poorer people in the community. 
I am not talking rot. I am going on a record. The honourable member should look back through the history of social reform. I have no doubt as to the feeling and the reaction in my electorate where it is proposed to establish one of these offices in Springvale. We know there is a desperate need which is being ignored by the Opposition. It was ignored for 23 years. The Leader of the Opposition has used the words 'hoax' and 'deception' to describe the Government's Budget. If ever those words are appropriate they are to the alternative proposal put forward last night. In fact, I would go further and describe the Opposition proposal as a gigantic fraud. The pamphlet I have mentioned and the Opposition's attack on the Budget were exercises in unreality. 
The feature which strikes me most forcibly is the Opposition's blatant appeal to people's cupidity which all of us possess to a greater or lesser extent. If the Opposition had been honest it would have stated clearly where the massive Government expenditure cuts would have taken place if it were in government. The record of the Liberal Party and National Country Party when in power shows clearly that they do not want social reform. The truth of the matter is that if the Opposition were in power the fields of education, health and social services- areas of major expenditure by this Government- would have suffered disastrous cutbacks. Community health centres, schools, pensions and the like would have been areas in which the slack would have been taken up- the gap that is totally unexplained by honourable members sitting on the other side of the House. 
-We have heard all about that. If we were to add all those figures together we would not get within a bull's roar of the figure that has been laid down. History shows that whenever the Liberal-Country Party coalition has been in government and has faced an economic crisis its immediate and only remedy has been to create a vast pool of unemployment. We could well have done this in the 1975 Budget. We could have reduced outlays sufficiently to bring the deficit well below that of 1974-75. This budget, have dealt a severe blow to inflation but the cost would have been the deliberate creation of massive unemployment- a course which the Opposition might be prepared to take but one which the Government totally rejects. 
If we were a Government with one eye fixed firmly on public opinion polls and if we had wanted simply to curry favour with the electorateas the Opposition is prepared to do at any price- and if we had wanted simply to buy popularity we could have done so by bringing down a handout Budget. However a handout budget has more than economic consequences. I suggest to the House that it also involves grave moral and ethical considerations. It panders to the type of selfish attitude expressed in the question we hear asked all too often in the community: 'What's in it for me?'. This in turn leads almost inevitably to the cynical corollary to that question: 'Look after number one. If you don't, nobody else will'. One of the greatest problems we face in the community today is the 'What's in it for me?' and 'I'm all right, Jack' attitude, which presupposes one 's enmity against one 's fellow man. It ignores man's reliance on all other people and the fact that social relationships have encouraged and developed a growing interdependence from person to person. I suggest that the success of the 1975 Budget depends to a very large extent upon a decisive change in this attitude- a change to an attitude of restraint in the name of the common good. 
At I see it, we could have approached out Budget planning in one of 2 ways: We could have said: 'What sort of Budget do the people want?', or: 'What sort of Budget do the people need to help us to find a solution to the country's economic problems?'. We could have adopted the first course by allowing for a deficit in the order of $5,000m. We could have made massive concessions to private enterprise and allowed this Government's social reform program to go ahead at the same rate as in the years before. We could have found a thousand and one ways to inject finance into all sectors of the community. But I submit that such a Budget would have been totally irresponsible in the same way that the alternative proposal put forward last night by the Leader of the Opposition is irresponsible. We would have abdicated our responsibility to the people of this nation. We would have stimulated a brief period of hothouse prosperity and temporary popularity but we would have stored up an inevitable economic recession of similar magnitude to the great depression of the 1930s. Had we sown the winds of sudden and temporary prosperity we would have reaped the whirlwind of uncontrollable inflation and unmanageable unemployment. The chickens would have come home to roost with a vengeance but this time in the form of vultures waiting for the economy to die. 
We rejected this course, for the aim of good government should be to recognise the totality of man's individual needs. But good government should apply itself also to the wider and more comprehensive aims and aspirations of all people. Society must be seen in its entirety, with social justice for all. Food, shelter, security for old age, health, education, mental, cultural, spiritual and emotional fulfilment are the essential building blocks of our society. The basic human rights- to work, to establish a family and to enjoy the benefits of creative leisure- are not privileges for the few although there are those who think they are. There are those who owe allegience only to the growing gimme cultgimme this and gimme that- and who are so greedy that they would swallow whole the false promises of the Leader of the Opposition. 
These are factors which have been carefully weighed in framing this Budget. The major realisation is that the cost of an ordered society can never be measured simply by calculations on a personal balance sheet of material profit or loss. It can be measured only by a broader interpretation of social and personal values. It is for this reason that the strategy which we have adopted in framing this Budget is the second course I stated earlier in this speech. We have asked ourselves: 'What sort of" a Budget do the people need to help us to find a solution to the country's economic problems?' We have recognised that there are some early signs of recovery in the economy. We have recognised the fragile nature of these early signs and the main aim of this Budget is to take those economic measures now which will promote the growth of a slow and steady recovery. If these measures are not taken we could quite easily be faced with a situation in which the private sector would lose confidence and this in turn would lead to inflation and unemployment rising to uncontrollably high levels. 
The Budget has been designed specifically to avoid such contingencies. I feel that what the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  said in his Budget Speech is the central theme of the economic proposals he has put forward and I disagree entirely with the feelings which the previous  speaker  has indicated towards those proposals. I quote from the Treasurer's Budget speech: 
Some sacrifice and patient restraint is called for from all of us in our demands for more resources, whether it is additional public services that are wanted or higher personal incomes. ... the keynote of this Budget is consolidation and restraint rather than further expansion of the public sector. 
The Treasurer made also the significant point: 
It is not possible to provide more and more government services or transfer payments from the Budget without ultimately having to pay for them through cutting back aftertax earnings via increased taxes. It is not possible to get quarts out of pint pots. In this Budget, we have exercised restraint. That restraint needs to be shared throughout the whole community. There must be a community  will  to combat inflation. There must be action to back up that will. 
This Budget provides the foundation for that action. I suggest that such action is in direct contradiction of the approach of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party which have based their appeal, both in the pamphlet to which I referred earlier and in the concessions that were talked about last night, on the 'What's in it for me?' attitude of selfish individuals. 
I should like to make brief mention of one area in which we seek this consolidation that was spoken of by the Treasurer: That is, the area of education. If we look at the record we see that in the last full year of office the Liberal and Country Party coalition gave a total of $73,998,000 to the States in grants for schools. In the last financial year we had increased that figure to almost $434m, more than a six-fold increase. In its first full year in office this Labor Government almost doubled expenditure on education. Last year it almost doubled it again. We are maintaining, in 1975-76, the high level of expenditure now reached with a total outlay of an estimated $ 1,908m. In addition to that figure an amount of $70m is provided for indexation. The advances we have made in education since 1972-73 are a reflection of our determination to make up for the neglect of those opposite when they were in government. We would not have had to spend such large sums if something had been done earlier but for 23 years virtually nothing was done. This was the legacy we received, but we have acted responsibly. 
Finally I refer to a criticism that is often made by our opponents opposite- that we do nothing to encourage the federal system. I suggest that members opposite should look carefully at what has been given to the States by way of general revenue assistance this year. We know that this has not made any difference to the claims of some States. Although the States are getting 34 per cent more than they got in the past, Ministers and leaders of State Liberal governments are complaining bitterly about cutbacks. So much for their support of their Federal leader's claim that he wants cutbacks in government expenditure. In the field of local government we see the same picture. This Government has increased the funding of local government from $56,345,000 last year to an estimated $73,908,000 in the coming financial year. 
The Opposition when in office gave exactly nothing to local government despite all its lip service to the federal system. When it came to putting money where its mouth was, the Opposition did not act. We are not backsliding in relation to our commitments; we are consolidating them. 
I believe it would be remiss of any Government supporter to speak on this debate without paying some special attention to what I am sure will go down in history as this Budget's most striking and, one might say, most revolutionary feature. I refer, of course, to the sweeping reform of the personal income tax system. We know that this reform is long overdue but, after all, the inequities that have grown up under the old system grew up over most of the time when the Opposition was in office. We have done something about this matter. We realise that this is the first step. I quote from an editorial in the  Age  of Thursday, 21 August:  ... the fundamental reform of our personal income tax system ... is likely to stand as a permanent monument to the almost frenetic energy which  Mr Hayden  has put into his job as Treasurer in the last 3 months. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I preface it by saying that a report this morning stated that the Minister had said that Victoria spent less money from its own resources on technical college buildings than either Queensland or South Australia. Is the Minister able to give the House further details on this subject? 
-We are speaking to the estimates for the AttorneyGeneral's Department. I would like to speak on the new initiatives which have been made in so many areas. In contradistinction from the previous speaker I think it is an illustration of the value or the quality of our Attorneys-General that we have moved into so many new and important areas in the short time that we have been the Government. Possibly no other ministry has undertaken a more imaginative program for the benefit of the people of Australia. Let me mention just a few examples. Members are aware that under the Family Law Act there is to be established the Family Court of Australia, the Family Law Council and the Institute of Family Studies! In this allocation there is $4.9m for this purpose. Then there is the Australian Law Reform Commission which has as its central objective the systematic development and reform of the law. We note that there is an increased allocation from $200,000 to $500,000 for this Commission. In the field of the protection of human rights, the Parliament will recall that very important law, the Racial Discrimination Act, which established a Commissioner for Community Relations and also a Community Relations Council. A sum of $300,000 has been provided this year for that purpose. 
However I want to concentrate my attention on the Government's proposal to extend the availability of legal aid. This Government is committed to the provision of legal aid to provide advice and assistance to persons in need, particularly disadvantaged people, on an equitable basis throughout Australia. As honourable members are aware, there are 30 Australian legal aid offices in existence- the central office, 8 branches and 21 regional offices. In this appropriation it is proposed to establish another 28 regional legal aid offices. The estimated cost of this work is $16.7m for the 1975-76 year. This includes payments to private legal practitioners of $7m, grants to the States to supplement existing legal aid schemes of $lm and legal aid to Aborigines of $3m. 
There is no question about the tremendous need which exists for legal aid offices. I am sure that honourable members must have shared my experience on numerous occasions when pensioners, migrants, disadvantaged people of one type or another, have urgently required legal advice and sometimes legal representation. I am certain that if it had not been for the necessary restraint which characterises this Appropriation Bill the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  would have been opening more than 28 legal aid offices in the coming year. Yet if the Opposition were to get its way it would eliminate Australian legal aid offices. This was clearly stated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  As honourable members are aware, the Victorian Government at the present time is challenging the validity of these offices in the High Court of Australia. I believe it can be truly said that the conservative forces in this country do not want to see legal assistance given to the needy in our community. 
It is possible that some of the opposition to this expenditure on legal aid has been engendered because of a misunderstanding of the nature of the service it is proposed to provide. One of the false assumptions attached to legal aid offices is that they are centralised takeovers of the functions of the legal profession. Let me assure honourable members that nothing could be farther from the truth. On the contrary, if anything, this extension of the regional offices will strengthen the philosophical basis of the legal profession, because their establishment is based on the fundamental principle that every person in Australia should have ready and equal access to the law and the legal processes. It also takes into account the equally fundamental principle that everyone is entitled to legal representation if and when that representation is needed. 
Should anyone doubt the need for legal aid, let him put himself in the place of a person who has never before been called into a courtroom as a defendant, a witness or as a member of a jury. This is no criticism of the Australian system of justice, or of the British system of justice on which it is based, but the very nature of our courtrooms to one unfamiliar with them immediately puts a defendant or a witness at a marked disadvantage with the magistrate, the judge, the police, Crown prosecutors or the counsel for the defence. When that person is not legally represented- this is something to which everyone is entitled- one can only hazard a guess at the trepidation with which he faces a court. We have learned recently from figures published by some sections of the legal profession that a person who is represented by counsel in court has a much better chance of acquittal than a person who is not so represented. 
Considering what I have said about the fears of people without any legal training appearing in court and how this applies to native born Aus.tralians whose first language is English, how much more frightening must this experience be for our wide and growing migrant population? In one of the municipalities in my electorate, Springvale, 60 per cent of the people were either born outside Australia or their parents were born outside Australia. It is true that many courts provide interpreters, but even the services of an interpreter without the added essential of legal representation does not give the migrant appearing in court adequate means to defend himself. Of course this applies not only to court procedures; it applies equally to signing legal documents such as tenancy or hire purchase agreements. Without someone to advise them people have no idea what they are letting themselves in for when they sign a document. Some months ago in this Parliament I drew honourable members' attention to a housing sales racket in Doveton, a suburb in my electorate. This racket was within the law, even if just within it, but the people who were victims were largely migrants. Had they had someone to whom they could turn for legal advice this racket could not have prospered. 
I am delighted that one of the new regional legal aid offices will be opened in my electorate and that it will be operating by the end of this year. I understand that staff appointments have already been made. Accommodation is available for occupation, it is hoped, in the very near future. The Springvale regional legal aid office is ideally situated. With the existing legal aid offices in Victoria established in Melbourne and on the western side of Melbourne it was essential that the next office to open should be on the eastern or the south-eastern side. The Springvale office will provide a much needed service not only to the people of the Holt electorate but also to areas as far afield as Gippsland, the Mornington Peninsula, Western Port and the eastern suburbs. For several years there has been an excellent volunary service in Springvale- the Springvale Legal Service. The establishment of an ALAO in Springvale should not be seen as being in competition with this voluntary service. It is intended that the legal aid offices will work in close co-operation with voluntary organisations. One will complement the other. There is every reason to expect a very close relationship between the staff of the Springvale ALAO and the existing Springvale Legal Service. One could imagine that at night the office of the ALAO will be used by the voluntary service. I have said that legal aid offices strengthen the legal profession because they will provide the means for the scales of justice to balance more evenly. This is a new approach to legal aid. The Australian Legal Aid Office is taking law to the people. It is a shopfront approach. 
-Is the Minister for Housing and Construction aware of the savage increase in rents for Housing Commission homes proposed by the Victorian Housing Minister? Is he also aware that the Victorian Minister has said that the cutback by this Government in housing funds has meant that Victoria is unable to subsidise the rent increase? Will the Minister inform the House of the moneys made available to Victoria for housing programs? 
I have pleasure in speaking in this debate on the estimates for the Department of Education. One could not but be touched in listening to the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  and hearing of the deplorable conditions in his electorate. He should ask himself why the conditions are so deplorable in the schools in his electorate. A Liberal Government has been in power in Victoria. He was justifying State rights. The Liberals had the influence in the schools right up to the time of the Schools Commission. 
The backlog that has been left in that area is a legacy from the Liberal governments of the last 25 years. In addition, we know what was done by the Opposition at the federal level when it was in power. 
I think that one must look very carefully at what the Victorian Minister for Education has done in relation to the whole question of education. He has constantly attempted to place the blame on this Government for the inefficiencies of his own Department. Last year he repeatedly claimed that the value of the Australian Government grants was being eroded by cost escalation. What he did not say was that the moneys that were going to the States through the 4 commissions were indexed to allow for rising costs. Recently he has complained about a cut in the capital grants for Victorian schools. He claims that this has resulted in the shelving of capital works for some 69 Victorian schools. This was mentioned by the honourable member for Deakin. What nonsense it is to say that it was necessary to shelve the capital works for 69 Victorian schools. What about the 34 per cent increase in capital assistance to the States contained in this year's Budget? If education is the top priority of the Victorian Government why can some of this money not be channelled into the construction of schools? 
Let us look at some facts. In the field of technical education the actual capital expenditure by the Victorian Government is less than half of what it was 2 years ago. The Richardson report shows that in 1971-72, $ 1.96m was spent. In 1973-74 the figure had dropped to $728,000. When we compare those figures with the figures for the less populous State, Queensland, we find that it allocated $2.846m- four times the Victorian figure- to capital works for technical schools in 1973-74. Let me tell the honourable member for Deakin where the blame should be placed. The understanding was that when the Schools Commission came into being the rate of expenditure on education in the Budget would be the same as it had been up to that time. It has never been explained satisfactorily by the Victorian Government why independent schools in Victoria can be built so much more cheaply than the Government can build through its own PubUc Works Department. Even after the experience of building the Princes Park high school by private contract the Victorian Government still retains the Public Works Department with all its problems. I have spoken on this subject on a number of occasions in this place. The Public Works Department is still retained to do most of the building work in this field. 
There is no doubt that the Australian Government places a high priority on education. It is becoming increasingly important. After listening tonight to the honourable member for Deakin one realises that this Government's concept of education is completely beyond the 19th century comprehension of honourable members opposite. Since December 1972 the Government has made it clear to all that it regards education as a lifelong process, from the cradle to the rocking chair. The Government has enlarged educational horizons far beyond the traditional 5 to 16 years age group. It has moved into new areas, such as the pre-school area, with an allocation for a comprehensive child care program of $74m this year. Another area about which the previous Government did absolutely nothing was technical and further education. The Government has increased the allocation there from $70.6m to $10 1.3m. The interest of this Government in education is reflected in the figures. Since this Government came to office there had been an increase of 400 per cent. This year the total estimated outlay is $ 1,908.2m- an increase of $237m on last year's actual expenditure. So it is nonsense for the Opposition to be talking of cutbacks. There are no cutbacks. That $237m is not the full story. It does not include the indexation of the money for the 4 commissions, which would bring the figure to well over $300m. 
The other sharp contrast between the Government's approach and that of the Opposition when it was in power is that this Government places a maximum premium on planning. This is in contrast to the previous Government's ad hoc approach. This Government has created new commissions such as the Schools Commission and the Technical and Further Education Commission. It has injected funds into education. If one looks at the amount of money that has gone into government and non-government schools one sees an increase of 700 per cent. As I said before, the money that has been provided for this purpose has been on the understanding that the rate of spending would be continued. But I stress that the Government retains a firm belief in the importance of triennium planning. 
It was due to the need for economic restraint that the Government has found it necessary to postpone the start of the next triennium by one year. In spite of these bold and original programs, the only comment that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  can make is that the Government is fulfilling a POliCY of enforced equality. In his feverish drive for power at any price he clutches at straws. He will utter almost any word to formulate a good catchcry but to have any popular appeal a catchcry must have some semblance of reality and this particular phrase has no basis in fact. Or are the grapes sour? This Parliament. and indeed the entire nation, should never forget that the Liberal Party opposed this Government's education program for schools to the bitter end. It must be assumed that if honourable members opposite ever gain power again they Will dismantle the fine educational edifice that we have painstakingly built. What the Leader of the Opposition is implying is that our educational program is aimed at turning out students as alike as peas in a pod or on a production line. Of course that is rubbish. The fundamental basis of our educational program is that all people are entitled to equality of opportunity in education, whether the student concerned is a potential genius or has some special difficulty. The aim is to allow aU to develop their capabilities to their full human potential. We also say that every child whether he is the child of a migrant, an unskilled worker, a craftsman, a farmer or a professional person, has the right to an education of quality. 
I suggest that we have no reason to believe that the Opposition has learnt anything about education in the almost 3 years in which it has been out of office. We have no reason to suppose that honourable members opposite have departed from their elitist concept. Their approach to education remains unchanged, so that the less educated continue to be less educated and the privileged few receive all the benefits- if that is the right word for it- of an education designed specifically to produce the God-given leaders of the future. It is the weakness in their philosophy that leads them to believe that they have a divine right to rule. So who is really dedicated to enforced equality? It is the people opposite whose educational equality is an education of deprivation for the vast majority of students in this nation. I ask who it is we should listen to. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Innes)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I want to use the brief time available to me to speak in support of the appropriation for the Department of Health mainly, and in brief in support of that for the Department of Social Security. The increased involvement of the Australian Government has added a new dimension to health care. Allocations this year indicate the very large quantitative increase but, at the same time, they reflect the qualitative improvement. The assistance provided by the Australian Government has particular significance, I would suggest, in my own State of Victoria where health care services have been allowed to run down to a very low state. The maladministration of the present Victorian Health Minister is readily acknowledged as he bounces from one disaster to another. 
It is fortunate that my electorate has shared in the enlarged vision of health care held by this Government. In many ways it can be regarded as a microcosm within the macrocosm. Throughout the electorate one can see evidence of innovations introduced by the Australian Government that are adding to the quality of health. Residents in the Holt electorate of course share with the people of Australia generally the advantages which accrue through the introduction of Medibank. On the medical side these advantages are clear. I suppose the most important group here is that made up of people who were not insured at all through no fault of their own in many cases but because they could not afford private health insurance. These people will now have health insurance provided for them, and rightly so, by the Government. 
But on the hospital side the increased allocation of funds for the running costs of hospitals is of particular importance to the Dandenong and District Hospital which is the major hospital in my electorate. This is a unique hospital which has a remarkable record of service to the community. It has the State's shortest average stay and the lowest cost per patient. Constantly it is faced with an acute bed shortage. This hospital has the highest proportion of casualties of any hospital in the State. Increased assistance by the Australian Government through the Medibank arrangements will provide urgently needed financial assistance in the hospital's administration. 
There are several disturbing features in regard to the Dandenong and District Hospital. The hospital has a low proportion of public patients at the present time. I believe that only 10 per cent of the patients are public patients. I also believe that public maternity cases have to go to the city hospitals. Again I believe that the Medibank arrangements will remedy many of these shortcomings. As honourable members are aware, there has been a massive increase of $77.7m in the grants made available under the hospitals development program. Portion of the $108m provided for in this year's Budget will be used to finance the south block extensions currently proceeding at Dandenong. Of course, this is a cooperative venture but the exact share of the State has yet to be determined. 
Possibly one of the greatest problems that we face in the community is the care of frail and the sick-aged people. Certainly my electorate faces that problem. Recently I discussed this problem with the welfare officer at the Dandenong and District Hospital and she showed to me a number of case studies which she had carried out on elderly people in the hospital which demonstrated the desperate plight faced by those people who virtually have nowhere to go. She drew to my attention cases where people have been in hospital for long periods of time and were living in a community where there is virtually nowhere for them to go once they leave hospital. She pointed out that their problem was made worse by the fact that generally nursing homes were full and in many cases the homes to which they could return were totally unsuitable for them. For this reason I was pleased recently when the Australian Government provided 80 per cent of the capital needed by the Methodist Church to purchase a nursing home in Noble Park. I would like to make passing reference to a comment made to me by Reverend John Johnson, the Director of Adult Care in the Methodist Church in Victoria, who stated that if it had not been for the deficit finance arrangements introduced by this Government voluntary and religious organisations such as his would have had to withdraw from the field of nursing home care. 
Also in the geriatric field the Holt electorate is fortunate that the Dandenong Day Hospital at present under construction will provide paramedical assistance urgently needed by many frail and aged people living in their homes. In this respect the Australian Government will provide 75 per cent of the capital funds required. Of course, the ideal is for aged people to live in their own homes for as long as possible and retain their independence. Sadly this is not always possible and they have to live with their families. The Government is mindful of this and is doing all it can to provide added domiciliary and ancillary care in the home. An example of this is the $2 per day allowance which is payable to people looking after the sick and aged in recognition of the importance of their work. 
I believe it is significant that the first medical appointment to the Doveton Community Health Centre was a community nurse. This centre was funded almost entirely by this Government. This is not to say that nurses had not already been carrying out excellent work through the district nursing service. But in many cases the service was very badly overtaxed. Of course, we know that there are many other facilities available within the community to provide services to those who are looking after the elderly in their homes. I will mention but one- the Delivered Meals Subsidy Act which provides subsidies for meals on wheels. It can of course be extended into many areas for organisations and councils which show the necessary initiative. 
In the moment or two remaining I want to mention medical aids which have been made available by the Government and which provide encouragement for the frail aged to remain in their homes. First I pay tribute to the excellent work being done by the National Acoustics Laboratory. Again Dandenong is fortunate in having a regional acoustic centre. Assistance is given to people in the provision of free hearing aids. If they are unable to attend the centre themselves due to invalidity or sickness the service is brought to them in their homes. Recently I have had the opportunity to observe the work of the centre at close hand and can testify to the quality of the service and the appliances. Another innovation that this Government introduced last year was the provision of home dialysis equipment and supplies. In this year's appropriation $2.28m was set aside for this purpose. As was announced yesterday by the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  stoma appliances are now available free of charge to all who need them. For this purpose $600,000 has been set aside in the Budget. 
Much has been done by this Government in the field of health care. A new approach has been launched and I believe that great credit must go to the Minister for the innovations that have been carried out. I am certain that the Minister and this Government would be the first to admit that we have only just begun the task and that there is much that remains to be done. A start has been made and the foundations are firm. 
-I was just thinking that I would be able to agree with almost everything that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  said but he then went on to make his last few points. I agree that as members of Parliament we face the problem of paper warfare with which it is extremely hard to cope. I. would certainly support him in any move for the wider dissemination of  Hansard.  But once the honourable member got on to his pet subject of communists he seemed to lose all sight of fact and entered the world of fantasy in which he lives at times. If he could name all these communists we would be interested to hear who they are. 
In considering the estimates for the Department of the Media it is essential to realise that its proper function is the wider dissemination of accurate information and the promotion of more effective communication between all sections of opinion, particularly from those who have never before had a voice in the community. It is no exaggeration to say that one of our major obstacles today is the problem of communication The challenge we face is to find the means to solve it. The prophets of future shock, like  Dr Paul  Ehrlich, have warned us that our survival depends on decisions and actions taken now. These people see the population explosion, diminishing food, resources, the destruction of our environment and thermo-nuclear annihilation as the most immediate threats to our continued existence on this planet. Whilst not in the least under-estimating the gravity of those problems, I place alongside them the breakdown in communication between man and man. 
I emphasise that the solution of. the problems of communication depends on a continuing flow of reliable and accurate information so that all people can understand and recognise the problems of others. It is ironic that in this latter part of the twentieth century, when we have at our disposal the modern marvels of radio, television and satellites circling the globe to carry messages to all parts of the world, at- the .same time we have the most serious breakdown in communication in our history. It is of more than passing interest to note that the Department of the Media is high on the Opposition's list of priorities of departments to be axed .if and when honourable members opposite come to power. Why should this be so? Are they afraid of the free flow of information between the Government and the people? Do they see a better informed electoratea more politically aware public-as a threat to their existence as a government?-This is part of the answer but only part. One only has to glance at the excellent booklet published by the Planning and Research Section of the Department of the Media called  A Study of Interlocking Patterns of Ownership and Control in Australian 

 Media Industries to find the rest of the answer. This most revealing publication shows that the very people who own and control the major outlets of newspapers and radio and television stations, and their biggest shareholders, are the same people whose interests are represented in this Parliament by the Opposition. 
Why should the Opposition be concerned about a Department of the Media disseminating accurate information when it has an active and partisan ally controlling the media to disseminate its policies and propaganda? At this point I want to correct a popular misconception about these newspaper barons. They are not, as is popularly supposed, in the business to disseminate facts. They are, like all other manufacturers in our society, in the business to make money. A government dedicated to the preservation of a profit motivated society is considerably more, to their liking than one that seeks to give social and economic justice to all its people. Unlike other manufacturers the product that these Press barons sell has a unique quality and that is the quality to influence people's minds in one way or another. When we consider that this unique and tremendous power is in the hands of 3 main groups in this country it becomes more and more obvious that a Department of the Media dedicated to encouraging the communication and dissemination of a wide variety of opinions is essential to our democratic way of life. 
What about the freedom of the Press that we hear so much about? That call has a somewhat shallow ring if honourable members cast their minds back several weeks ago when the Minister for the Media  (Dr Cass)  issued this discussion paper that has been referred to- and it was only a discussion paper- on the possibility of establishing a Press council. The owners of the mass media' reacted so violently to this suggestion, even likening the Minister for the Media to the Nazi propaganda Minister  Dr Goebbels,  that their very reaction was a clear indication within itself that as things are now we have little freedom of the Press but rather a jealously guarded privilege of a few people to influence public opinion. In passing I might add that a Press Council, a voluntary organisation of newspaper proprietors, has been operating successfully in the United Kingdom for some years, without interference from the government and controlled by the people who own the media. Yet even the suggestion that a similar Press council might be a subject for discussion in Australia was greeted with outraged cries of limitations on the freedom of the Press. So the freedom of the Press in Australia boils down to a monopoly of a few people having the freedom to disseminate news- I make a clear distinction between news and information- the freedom to print only the news that they want to print and, where necessary, to ignore or to suppress other relevant information. This monopoly of news and the rigid limitations it imposes on the general public's access to opinions other than those disseminated by the mass media gives us not only the right but also the responsibility to encourage and stimulate any other medium which will give the public a choice of views on any.subject. The Minister is to be congratulated on the way he has encouraged access radio and ethnic radio. 
-He is. He is a fine Minister. I agree with the honourable member for Hunter. It is an essential ingredient of our democracy, particularly a democracy which has become a multi-racial society, that migrant groups should not only be able to communicate among themselves but have the means to tell us of their, problems. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  pointed out the very high proportion of ethnic groups that are able to listen to their own broadcasts. It is equally important that the deprived and inarticulate in bur community should have a voice to make their needs known. The efforts of the Minister and the plans for the future to ensure an adequate say for all in how our country is to be run are to be highly commended. If, as the Opposition wishes, the Department of the Media were to be disbanded, these voices would be stifled and our society would be so much the poorer. 
It is my considered belief that all opinions, no matter whether they come from the extreme right or the extreme left- I ask the honourable member for Mackellar to note that; whether they come from the extreme right or the extreme lefthave the right to be expressed and listened to. We should not seek to inhibit the right of people to express their views, whether in newspapers, on radio or on television, no matter how unconventional, no matter how undemocratic, no matter how much they oppose or offend our established beliefs and customs. If we do not have enough faith in the good commonsense of our people, if we are not firmly enough convinced that our democratic way of life can withstand attacks from the more extremist positions, then we are standing on extremely shaky ground. Actually the contrary is the case. The very clash of opinions, the continuing dialogue and communication between people of differing beliefs, can serve only to strengthen the way of life we cherish. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Keith Johnson)-  I call the honourable member for La Trobe. 
-I welcome the opportunity to speak briefly in support of this BUI. 
I Will do not be afraid of that. I will support the amendments that will be moved by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby).  I oppose the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard).  I should like to make brief reference to some of the comments of the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson).  It seems that the Opposition parties are very happy with the general philosophy of providing legal aid to people in die community but it must be done their way. The Opposition parties as the divine rulers in this place have always been able to say what is the right way and what is the wrong way. When they were in government their effort in relation to legal aid was abysmal. They had their chance for 23 years but they did not take it. Now after  2V4  years in which this scheme has been working and over  130 000  people have benefited from it they have come forward and said that we are doing it the wrong way. Why did the Opposition parties not do something when they were in office? 
-You did not. The effort put forward by your Government was abysmal. 
-As the honourable member said,  $200,000  was your effort and that is about the measure of interest that the Liberal and Country parties had in this matter. The honourable member for McMillan seems intent on denigrating salaried professionals, for whatever reason. He implied that a salaried solicitor, a lawyer, would be a lesser person than one working on a fee-for-service basis. We have heard this allegation in relation to Medibank. We have heard it in respect of other proposals. As one who was a professional on a salary the honourable member would not expect me to buy that argument at any price. If a person is worth his salt, whether he is on a salary or working on a fee-for-service basis, if he has the right motivation he will give the service. There are many reasons why I strongly support the establishment of additional legal aid offices and this Bill in particular. It is a new approach to legal aid. It is taking the law to the people with its shopfront approach and it aims to make legal aid readily and equally available to all people. I would stress the term 'equally available to all people' because at present it is not equally available. I can think of many people in the community who are disadvantaged under the law. I think of the migrant groups, the many needy people in the community, the pensioners and those who simply cannot afford legal advice. These are the people who will gain by a further extension of legal aid offices throughout this country. From my own personal experience I am aware of the need which exists. There have been so many occasions when people have come to me with their problems, part of which have had legal implications, and I have needed or wanted to have ready access to legal advice. 
I am not going to denigrate the voluntary services that are provided in the community. These services are very fine and I commend the people who give up their time to provide them, but they are not available throughout the day and frequently there is a delay of a week before a person can obtain an interview. For this reason I will be very pleased when the next legal aid office in Victoria opens in my electorate in Springvale. I understand from the Attorney-General that this will be before Christmas. It is a well chosen location on the south-eastern side, some  16  miles out of Melbourne. As honourable members will be aware, at present there are offices in Melbourne, Broadmeadows, Brunswick, Sunshine and Geelong. There was a tremendous need for the establishment of an office on the south-eastern side which will have as a catchment area not only the electorate of Holt but I suggest also the electorate of McMillan. I am quite sure that the people in the Gippsland district will be very happy to travel to Springvale to get assistance. 
-Well, it is surprising how many people have come to my office seeking legal advice already. 
-No, from the electorate of the honourable member for McMillan. I have no doubt that the staff could be kept busy just servicing my electorate, but we have to hasten slowly in this field. There is no doubt about how the community feels in relation to the establishment of legal aid offices. The Australian National Opinion Poll of July  1975  asked this question: 'Do you think we do or do not have a need for the Australian Legal Aid Office?' I think the answers to that question are significant. Of the total number of people interviewed  94  per cent said they need die offices;  3  per cent said they did not need them and  3  per cent were unsure. On a percentage break-up according to the sex of those interviewed,  94  per cent of the females and  94  per cent of the males said the offices were needed. On a political basis  95  per cent in support of the offices were Labor voters and  94  per cent were Liberal-Country Party voters. There was overwhelming support for the need for these offices. I think it is also interesting that there are a number of honourable members on the other side of this House who have written to the Attorney-General requesting that a legal aid office be placed in their electorates. The whole situation in relation to the attitude of the Opposition on this Bill is an extraordinary one. We have had the statement of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  quite a categorical statement- that he will abolish the Australian legal aid offices if he gets into power. 
Will-that is what he said. Then we have the action of the Victorian Liberal Party Government which at present is challenging the validity of this proposal in the High Court. An amendment has been moved by the honourable member for Bennelong which seeks to refer this matter to a joint committee. Whatever happens it appears to me that the Opposition is now trying to wriggle off the hook. The Leader of the Opposition has come out with a categorical statement that he would abolish legal aid offices. We now have the Opposition saying: 'Let us go as far as putting the Bill into the Upper House. Let is put it before a committee of that House, then we can forget about it. We can shelve it. We can bury it'. The Opposition has been able to do this so often in its attempts to frustrate our efforts to govern. The question which the people of Australia must ask themselves is whether or not the conservative parties of this country want all people to have equal access to the law. The actions of the Opposition parties suggest the contrary. I believe that they are content with the present situation, a situation which existed before 1973 and in which not all people had equal access to legal advice. There were many who did not have this access simply because they could not afford it. 
This Bill assumes that a large proportion of the work of the Legal Aid Office will be referred to private practitioners. This was made quite clear this year in the Appropriation Bill which has just been passed through this House and under which $7m has been set aside for this purpose. It is clear that the majority of briefs that have gone from the legal aid offices that have already been established have been taken on by the private practitioners. The fact is that the shop front approach will bring the law to the people. People have had access to legal advice and representation for the first time with the establishment of the Australian legal aid offices. The amount of work the private practitioner will get will not decrease; it will increase simply because there will be so many more people getting access to the law than in previous times 
Also, the Bill provides for a better and more rational approach for grants from this Government to assist legal aid schemes conducted by State governments, the legal profession in the States, and voluntary bodies. This is not to be seen as competitive but as complementary to what is going on in the ALAO offices. In my own electorate I am well aware of the excellent work that is being done on a voluntary basis. I shall refer to but one example, the Springvale Legal Service, which works in conjunction with the 
Springvale Community Aid and Advice Bureau and the Springvale Council. It has been operated by law students from the Monash University and has provided tremendous assistance to a wide group of people. I understand that the service has before the Attorney-General at the moment a request for assistance. I know that when the Springvale legal aid office is established that this service will then become a joint venture, that one service will be complementary to the other, that it will not be a case of the Australian Legal Aid Office taking over and pushing this group out of the community, that there will be the opportunity to work in co-operation. This is surely the way it should be. 
Let us just look at the figures in relation to what has been provided in the way of supplementary assistance. The 1974-75 figures show that $l.lm in grants was given to supplement existing legal aid schemes. Victoria received in all $430,700 of which $23,000 went to the Fitzroy Legal Service. Again, this shows the variation and flexibility of the approach that we are trying to develop. In this year's Appropriation Bill provision was made for similar assistance. I emphasise that this Bill invites community involvement. The Bill refers to consultative committees which are to be elected to assist the ALAO. The purpose of those committees at State and local community level is to ensure that there is liaison and consultation between the legal profession and others interested in the provision of legal aid, and the lawyers in the ALAO. 
The Australian Legal Aid Office is now well established with branches operating in all State capitals and in 23 regional offices. It is hoped that another 30 offices will be opened in the course of this year. I believe that it is significant that already 130 000 interviews have taken place with lawyers of the Office with this shop front approach. This does not include telephone advice and correspondence. Of course it reflects what I was saying earlier about the tremendous need that exists in the community. The Australian Legal Aid Office has already proved itself but there is still a long way to go. If we look at the figures it is interesting to see what proportions of the 130 000 interviews were in different areas and with different types of people. Of that number 35.5 per cent were in the family law area; 24 per cent were concerned with problems related to Federal law; 21.5 per cent were conducted with pensioners and 8 per cent with migrants. I suggest that it is possible that the low figure in relation to the migrant group could well have been due to the fact that there is this problem of communication. This is one of the challenges that remains before us at present. 
I should like to make several observations regarding the need for legal education in secondary schools. In the United States and Canada the introduction of basic legal concepts is included in the junior high school curriculum. In my own state of Victoria at both the fourth form level and the higher school certificate level there is a subject called 'Legal Studies'. I think the ALAO can play a role in the field of legal education in schools. There is no doubt that a legal education program will assist teacher; to reach understanding with students about the role of law in society. But I believe there is a challenge for us. The challenge exists to find ways of providing education in legal matters to adults in our communities, particularly to the inarticulate and the migrant groups. This, I believe, is a future area of expansion for the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
I feel it is important to stress that this Bill creates the Office as an independent statutory body to give effect to the Government's view that lawyers in the Office should be independent and be seen to be independent of the Government. It makes it clear that a relationship of solicitor and client exists between the lawyers of the Office and their clients and that the rules of professional conduct and ethical standards that apply to lawyers in private practice apply equally to lawyers in the Office. 
The Bill also provides for the establishment of an Australian Legal Aid Commission. Its task is to carry out wide-ranging research and to give policy advice to the Australian and State governments and other bodies. It should be noted that the Commission is being established as a body separate from the Office as its function of research and policy advice is quite distinct from that of providing legal aid. Only a separate advisory body can give independent and objective advice to the Australian Government upon the roles of respective services and Federal grants to them. 
As stated in the Minister's second reading speech, members of the Commission will be drawn from all sections of the community so that the widest range of views and expertise is available. The Bill was introduced into the House some 4 months ago with the express purpose of allowing reactions and comments of members of Parliament, the legal profession and interested organisations to be made known to the AttorneyGeneral. Consultations have been held with the legal profession and other interested persons by the Attorney-General. These have been taken into account in the amendments which are to be put forward in the name of the Attorney-General at a later date. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Will he inform the House of the extent of capital expenditure on technical colleges by the States over the past 2 years? Is it true that the Victorian Government's contribution to these capital works has decreased rapidly? 
-We have recently had the benefit of reading the comprehensive and detailed Henderson Report on Poverty in Australia. That excellent document throws light on a subject which previous governments have preferred to brush under the carpet. Even the briefest glance at the section of the Henderson report dealing with housing leads one to the conclusion that for the lower income groups there is always a housing problem. In boom periods those economically deprived people cannot afford houses and in periods of recession they are the people who become unemployed and are still just as far from adequate accommodation for themselves and their families. 
I do not propose to go into the detailed recommendations of the Henderson report as they affect housing. Suffice it to say that this Government has recognised the problem and has been trying to do something constructive about it since it came to office. The figures of money paid by this Government to the States for housing, compared with those of the previous Government speak for themselves. If we look back at the advances made to the States for welfare housing by the Australian Government we find a dramatic jump in the year 1973-74, the first financial year this Government was in office. The following year saw an even greater increase from $218.65m to $385.4m. In this financial year the amount allocated is $364.6m. Bearing in mind the $ 10.4m advanced in June 1975 on the basis that it would be taken into account in this year's allocation- the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  advised the State Ministers of that fact- the advances in 1975-76 will be maintained at the greatly increased 1974-75 level. The last 2 years' allocation will be  2lA  times greater than the allocation for welfare housing from State loan funds in the last 2 years of the previous Government, which were $161.5min 1971-72 and$163.2min 1972-73. 
-They are the figures which reflect quite clearly that it is 2V4 times as much. One cannot account for that with inflation or anything else. In spite of the substantial advances in the 1975-76 financial year, already many State Housing Ministers have been squealing about a drastic cutback. If we take my State of Victoria as an example,  Mr Dickie  has been vociferous in his cry of a drastic cutback. The claim is patently untrue. This year the Victorian Government, under the provisions of this Bill, will get $98. 1 5m- exactly the same as last year. However, as honourable members are aware, this money is shared between the State housing Authorities- in Victoria, the Housing Commissionand the home builders' account. On the decision of  Mr Dickie  and with the agreement of this Government 70 per cent- $68. 7m- was allocated to the Housing Commission which is $6.9m more than last year's total. 
There are of course, very good reasons why the amount of money allocated for welfare housing this year does not follow the dramatic increases of the past 2 years. One of the reasons is just the point that I have made- the dramatic increases of the past 2 years. It would be economically irresponsible to continue the increases in the government housing sector at that rate at present. The second reason is that there is now strong evidence of a recovery in the private home building sector. That has been by no means a sudden and dramatic recovery; surely nobody would want that. But it has been a recovery at a steady pace, which is what the Budget is aiming at. The September figures for building approvals reinforce the Government's strategy in this year's Budget. Dwelling approvals in September this year at 13 513 were 19 per cent above the August level of 1 1 375. In seasonally adjusted terms the increase in total dwelling approvals was less pronounced at 10 per cent. However, the September 1975 figure was the second highest figure recorded since July 1974. Also, the allocations for 1975-76 are limited by the general budgetary constraints and they are designed to bring about stability and control of inflation. 
It is difficult to reconcile the amendment presently before the House, which has been moved by the Opposition and which is critical of the amount of money being allocated in this Bill, with the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in relation to the Budget. He then spoke of the need to cut back $ 1,000m in Government spending. He was very careful not to be too precise about where this money would be cut back. He gave some examples, such as doing away with the Australian Legal Aid Office and the like. But what about the other $500m which was mentioned? I think we can go back to the track record of the previous Government to see what concern it had about welfare housing. We can be fairly sure that one of the casualties would be welfare housing. In spite of this, the substantial advances in the 1975-76 financial year will allow State housing authorities to complete more welfare dwellings than has been the case for many years. That is what this Bill is all about. 
The question is, of course, whether all these housing authorities will use this money to its greatest advantage. In my home State of Victoria I fear- in fact I know- that this has not always been the case. I wonder whether if the $98m that the Victorian Government will be allocated under this Bill will be squandered in the same way as the previous grants which have been allocated. Some may take exception to the word 'squandered', but I am mindful of the fact that the Victorian Housing Minister and his departmental officers have not always used this money wisely. Time and time again we have seen the Victorian Housing Commisssion paying highly inflated prices for land which, had the Commission moved a little earlier, would have been bought much more cheaply. Time and time again we have seen that the people who are benefiting from this are the developers and not the people whom we are aiming to help with welfare housing- the poorer people in this community whom we are trying to assist to get homes. 
Time and time again the Victorian Liberal Government has rejected suggestions to freeze land prices, which it has the power to do. The suggestions have not been heeded. Indeed, had the Victorian Liberal Government and the parties in opposition in this Parliament had the political and economic foresight they claim to have, they would have supported this Government's referendum to control prices and incomes and we would not be faced with the inflationary situation which bedevils this country today. At a recent meeting in my electorate a woman  speaker  brought up the question of the present policy of the Victorian Housing Commission in building homes costing $30,000 and the difficulties faced by people trying to buy them. There is nothing wrong in building homes costing this much, but the incredible thing about all this is that if a person is within the financial range to be eligible for one of these homes he cannot afford it and if a person has the money to be able to afford one of these $30,000 homes he is not eligible according to the Housing Commission regulations. In Victoria the needs test eligibility limit at present stands at $130 a week for a family with up to 2 children, while in New South Wales the figure is $133.71 a week. 
In all fairness, it should be reported that the Victorian Minister for Housing,  Mr Dickie,  issued a denial of this in a letter to a local newspaper. He said: 
The Liberal Government in Victoria is terribly proud of the fact that since coming to office in 1 955, their policy of home ownership has been instrumental in nearly 45 000 of the 85 000 home units which have been built by the Housing Commission being sold to eligible applicants. It has been the Socialist Government in Canberra . . . which has unfortunately forced upon the Liberal Government in Victoria policies whereby there are now extreme restrictions on home ownership. It has been the policies of the Socialist Government in Canberra that has forced the cost of housing built by the Housing Commission to a figure now in the vicinity of $30,000 . . . 
There is more to the Housing Minister's letter, but that is the essence of what he had to say. It is significant that the Victorian Housing Minister does not specifically rebut the charge that these $30,000 homes are beyond the reach of most Housing Commission applicants. It is equally significant that the Housing Minister makes no reference to the singularly inept way in which the Victorian Housing Commission has gone about acquiring land for these homes. One could give many examples in my home city of Dandenong of land being purchased at peak prices.  (Quorum formed) 
Before I was interrupted by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  who seems particularly concerned that honourable members should be present to listen to speakers from this side of the House but who is equally determined that no one should listen to anyone on his side of the House, I was talking about the Victorian Housing Minister and the inept way in which the Victorian Housing Commission has gone about acquiring land for the homes that it builds. The Commission has paid fantastically high prices when it could have imposed a ceiling, had it wished. It has bought land in the area of Packenham- just alongside my electoratewhich is said to be flood prone. The Victorian Housing Minister also makes no reference, in his terribly proud letter which I read to the House a moment ago, to the fact that there is a 4 to4 years waiting period for Housing Commission homes. He also makes no reference to the fact that, when people were crying out for homes, in the private sector considerable speculative building was going on in the heart of Melbourne; skyscrapers were going up on just about every piece of land in the city. Now we are faced with a situation in which there are literally hundreds of acres of vacant office space in the city of Melbourne. It might be added that the people who own these places are content to let them remain vacant. It is cheaper, in terms of taxation, for these places to remain unoccupied than for the owners to have to pay taxes on the rents. 
I must confess that I can see nothing of which the Victorian Housing Commission can be terribly proud in seeing building materials, which at that time were so sorely needed for home building, being diverted into useless and vacant office blocks. This whole matter of welfare housing is of considerable importance to me. It comes close to home because it is one of the most important of the problems that exist in my electorate of Holt, which is one of the fastest developing outer metropolitan areas. Let me add one point. One of the great needs in areas such as mine is the need for emergency housing, such as overnight accommodation, housing for a week or a fortnight- any sort of housing and for a variety of reasons. I am quite certain that, if we had the full co-operation of the Victorian Liberal Government and its Minister for Housing instead of the frustration we experience now, much of the misery occasioned by this housing shortage could be overcome. I welcome this Bill because it approves more than $364m for welfare housing. It is my earnest hope that it will be used by State governments to its greatest possible advantage. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Education. What has the value of student assistance and fees become in the current Budget? 
I welcome the opportunity to speak in support of this Bill. It is an important Bill which has the simple objective of co-ordinating the important work at present being done by the Australian Universities Commission and the Australian Commission on Advanced Education and thereby making their work more efficient. I listened with interest to the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  and I have noted the amendment that he has moved. I should like to look more closely at several of the comments that he has made. He said that there is no justification for amalgamation. I suggest to him that there is evidence to support the amalgamation and I will try to provide it for him later in my speech. I also remind him that it is not simply a case of amalgamation. Within this Bill we are maintaining the councils which are very similar to the Commissions which at present exist and we are adding this over-arching body. 
He was also critical of a statement which was apparently made by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  when he spoke in the debate on the Technical and Further Education Bill when it came before the House. It is interesting that the Opposition is usually critical of the Government for the proliferation of commissions. When we are taking the reverse action and reducing the number of commissions it is still critical. It is interesting that the Liberal Party chose to oppose the Schools Commission. I believe that the record of that Commission since that time indicates full well the wisdom of the Government in the action that it took. One of the amendmentsand I will not speak more on them- refers to the lessening of the role of the States. I fail to see how this is done by the Bill that is before the House and I do not believe that the honourable member for Sturt made it clear in his speech. 
I believe that this Bill should be seen as a logical extension of this Government's overall approach to education. This Government's outstanding achievements in education have met with such success simply because we have kept firmly in our minds that the best interests of the students are the primary objective. In the field of tertiary education the deep interest that the Government has is clearly reflected in the increased expenditure. Grants for universities in the last financial year of a Liberal-Country Party Government, 1972-73, totalled approximately $80m. The estimated expenditure in this year's Budget is $448m, a five to sixfold increase. Using the same years for comparison, the increase is from $58m to $35 lm in grants made or to be made to colleges of advanced education. In both cases the 1975-76 figures can only be estimates as they do not include supplementary grants for prospective cost increases. 
In fairness, of course, it must be said that in 1974 we accepted the full responsibility for tertiary education and that does influence the figures that I have brought before the House. It should also be remembered that it was the Whitlam Government which abolished tuition fees at the tertiary level and an answer given in the House, I think yesterday, by the Minister for Education indicated the very substantial amount of money that we are giving either in payment of fees or in assistance to students at the tertiary level. From memory that figure was estimated in this year to be approximately $2 10m. 
We all know the old saying that a man can achieve life fulfilment, even fame and fortune, by making 2 blades of grass grow where one blade of grass grew before. The same does not hold good for governments. In fact it has been a regrettable tendency and a source of criticism of some governments that they have allowed 2 departments or commissions to grow where one department or commission grew before and that the existing department or commission could have done the work of the two new ones. This Bill reverses the tendency to which I have referred. Its aim is to make one commission grow where 2 commissions existed before. It deals with specific aspects of higher education which can be broadly described as advanced or tertiary. 
At the moment we have 2 bodies- the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education- dealing with higher education. This measure proposes to establish a Tertiary Education Commission to take the place of the 2 existing commissions. It should be noted that the proposed new commission will have 2 councils to assist it to advise the Government on the development and support of higher education in Australia. A number of factors have been taken into account in reaching the decision to establish a Tertiary Education Commission. I would give lie to the point made by the honourable member for Sturt that this is something that has been foisted on us by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  It has been given wide consideration. There are good reasons for the actions we are taking, not the least of which has been the quite outstanding growth in the advanced education sector which in terms of resources committed today is becoming comparable with the university sector. 
Another important factor was the increasing difficulty in drawing a clear line of distinction between certain of the functions of the 2 commissions. However, the most important point is that the capital claims of universities and colleges of advanced education have become enormous. It is essential that they should not compete one against the other. Through the Tertiary Education Commission co-ordination of these competing capital claims can take place. It has become obvious that certain of the work was progressing along parallel lines and in spite of the high degree of consultation between the 2 commissions it has become evident that a more efficient approach to higher education can be achieved by co-ordinating the 2 bodies into one commission. 
Quite often, the pitfall in legislation of this nature, which seeks to rationalise the work of two or more bodies engaged in specific tasks of a similar nature, is that certain elements tend to be shut out, to lose their identity, in the overall plan of co-ordination. This is not the case here. Indeed it has gone in the other directions by building specific safeguards into the Bill to see that the identities of the 2 systems will be fully maintained at all times. These safeguards are the 2 councils I have mentioned, the Universities Council and the Advanced Education Council. It is essential that legislation of this type should reflect the significant distinctions between these 2 groups of institutions. It is possible to differentiate the basic purposes of the 2 kinds of institutions and this is done succinctly in the Report of the Panel to Advise on Arrangements for Amalgamating the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education. In fact the honourable member for Sturt already quoted from this report but I will do so also because I believe it is important. The panel stated: 
The purposes for which universities are founded and for which society continues to maintain them, include the preservation, transmission and extension of knowledge, the training of highly skilled manpower and the critical evaluation of the society in which we live. The primary emphasis of the colleges, on the other hand, is on the provision of vocational education to meet the known needs of society. Thus the universities are concerned with knowledge in a broad and dynamic sense while the colleges are concerned with the application of knowledge in a wide variety of occupations. 
In addition the Universities Commission deals directly with individual universities whereas the Commission on Advanced Education deals through State authorities concerned with the coordination of advanced education. State universities are established as autonomous institutions under their own Acts of State parliaments. Colleges of advanced education in the States are generally established under an Act of Parliament which governs the activities of a number of colleges and their development is co-ordinated by a State authority through which formal dealings with the Commission on Advanced Education are conducted. 
It can be seen at the moment that the Universities Commission recommends funds to States for institutions while the Commission on Advanced Education recommends support for courses. It is therefore most gratifying to see that this legislation has studiously avoided the danger that either of these 2 groups of institutions should lose their identity. These 2 councils, as their names imply, will be concerned with universities and advanced education. They will represent the Commission in dealing with individual universities and colleges and their relationships with the proposed Tertiary Education Commission will be much the same as those which the universities and colleges have with the existing commissions. It is noteworthy that an additional safeguard provided in this measure is that the membership of these 2 councils must be different enough to maintain their separate identities fully at all times. 
The reputation and the expertise which the 2 commissions have built up- the Universities Commission over a period of 1 5 years and the Commission on Advanced Education over 10 years- will continue in the 2 councils. I have said that this legislation should be seen as a logical extension of the Government's overall approach to education. I was delighted to hear the Minister, in his second reading speech, mention the possibility of the reappraisal of some institutions in the light of the establishment of the Technical and Further Education Commission. I believe that this takes into account paragraph 3.1 1 of the report of the panel which states:  ... the panel has also taken into account the growth of technical and further education in Australia. Australian Government initiatives in this field will have an increasing effect over the next few years and there will need to be close consultation between the new tertiary education commission and the recently established Technical and Further Education Commission. Related to this is the possible development on a greater scale than has hitherto been the case, of multi-level institutions, particularly in country areas where educational needs might most efficiently be served by a single institution providing courses at tertiary and other levels. 
The Bill is sufficiently adaptable in its approach to cater for such future changes in policy and circumstance. There is no question about the needs of technical and further education and the desirability that all post-secondary or all tertiary education should be seen as a whole. I believe that it is unfortunate that within Australia it is customary to draw a distinction between postsecondary education and tertiary education. Some figures have been given to me- I am not sure of their truth- which indicate that the present enrolment in technical colleges in Australia is 600 000. With regard to universities, the figures that I have been given show that there are approximately 166 000 enrolments. I realise that those figures differ from the figures that were given earlier, but in any case we can say with certainty that there are about 4 times as many students at technical colleges as there are at what we now term 'tertiary institutions'. 
It is interesting to note, in the context of the Bill under consideration, several statements contained in the second report on 'Needs in Technical and Further Education', because they are directly in line with the type of philosophy contained in the provisions of this measure.  (Quorum formed)  It is interesting that the quorum should have been called by the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes).  Apparently one needs an Oxford doctorate to be able to play these puerile numbers games in the House. At least he has apparently been able to count at least to past twenty. I was referring to the type of philosophy contained in the second report on 'Needs in Technical and Further Education'. I was about to quote from that document when the quorum was called. It states: 
The work of the committee must not be considered in isolation from other institutions which provide post-secondary education. 
In Australia, it is customary to use the term 'tertiary education' as comprehending universities, colleges of advanced education and teachers colleges. 
Post-secondary education covers, in addition to university and advanced education, the whole range of formal education activities subsequent to secondary education including, for example, trade training, middle-level courses, general education of a non-degree/non-diploma kind and adult education. 
Post education is concerned with the education of adults . . . planning for post-secondary education must take cognisance of the number and diversity of places provided by universities, colleges of advanced education and the technical and further education colleges. 
Each sector has its own need for appropriate resources but, in the allocation of resources, post-secondary education must be seen as a whole. 
That of course is the ideal, but technical education differs in some degree from education at universities and colleges. It is tied to the States as far as funding is concerned and until it becomes autonomous there are clear difficulties in seeing the 3 structures of education as a whole. Under present funding arrangements the financial assistance provided by the Australian Government is supplementary to the efforts of States which continue to have the prime responsibility for technical and further education. This Government has provided significant assistance to technical and further education. It is estimated in the Budget that some $101m will be made available this year when that Budget is passed. Unfortunately there has been a tardiness on the part of some of the States to spend the money made available by the Commonwealth. I cite the example of Victoria where the amount made available for capital works in the 2! years commencing on 1 July 1974 was $ 14.7m. The amount spent in the first 12 months was $3.6m. That is, 40 per cent of the time has elapsed but only 24 per cent of the money has been expended. We can contrast Victoria with South Australia where we see that in the same period in 40 per cent of the time South Australia has spent 55 per cent of its allocation. It was accepted, as I said earlier, that our efforts are supplementary to the States' efforts, and it was expected that they would continue their performance. In the case of Victoria we find a diminishing performance. Over the last 2 years the figure has dropped from $1.96m to $728,000. 
