
 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I want firstly to take this opportunity of conveying my congratulations to both  Mr Speaker  and the  Chairman  of Committees on their unanimous election to the high offices they hold. I feel sure that they have already indicated their impartiality, and I feel equally sure that they will carry out their responsibilities with dignity and a realisation of the true meaning of parliamentary democracy. On 2nd December last year the Australian people exercised their periodic prerogative to change the political complexion of the national government. There were, of course, many changes and one of the changes that occurred resulted in my coming into this House to represent the electors of Hume. I am deeply conscious of both the honour and the responsibility bestowed upon me by their decision and I pledge myself to carry out the representation of those people to the best of my ability. 
I believe that I would be remiss in my responsibility to the electors of Hume if I did not also take this opportunity to pay a tribute to the former member for this electorate.  Mr Pettitt  sat in this House as the honourable member for Hume for 9 years from 1963 until 1972, and I feel sure that all those who know Ian Pettitt will agree that, during his stay in the Federal Parliament, he gave his contituents the type and the quality of representation to which they were entitled. He was a conscientious, hard working member who gave unstintingly of his time and energies.  His  efforts really deserve the appreciation of all his former constituents, irrespective of what their political beliefs might be. and I am pleased to have this oppotunity to record that appreciation. 
Ian Pettitt and I were, of course,^ of different political persuasion, yet whilst we attacked each other on matters of policy during 2 election campaigns, and between those campaigns, we were able at all times to maintain a cordial personal relationship. In fact, even in the matter of policy there are substantial areas of agreement between the policies of the Australian Labor Party and the stated policies of the Australian Country Party. So much of our policy is subsequently adopted by the Country Party that I have often wondered in the past why the Country Party did not seek an alliance with the Labor Party years ago rather than form their coalition with the Liberal Party. Of course, now members of the Country Party find themselves with nowhere to go and their Leader wants a VIP aircraft to get there. 
For many years the Australian people have witnessed the performance of a government that was prepared to take legislative action and to make concessions to important national commitments purely and simply to win elections. Concession to education by way of grants for science laboratories and libraries, increases in pension rates, the allocation of finance for home savings grants and many other pre-election moves, whilst good in themselves, were not designed to overcome a particular deficiency, to correct a specific wrong or to make any radical change in existing policies. They were designed to give the government of the day an electoral advantage. To cite an instance of the iniquities built into some of these policies, either by accident or design, I refer to the home savings grant scheme and mention the experience of 2 young couples whom I knew quite well, and who married at about the time the scheme was introduced. In one instance, the wife continued to work and so they were able to enjoy the benefits of a double income. They had no family worries or responsibilities and they had no difficulty in saving enough money to qualify for the maximum home savings grant. 
The second couple had 4 children after 6 years of marriage. They had no chance to save for a home and consequently received no government assistance. These people will probably live in rented premises, at least until the children are grown up and able to fend for themselves, by which time of course the parents will be barred from any home savings grant assistance by the age limit. Now whilst 1 do not deny the right of people to make their own decision on how they should live their lives and, obviously, these people made their decisions, I cannot believe that the Australian people will accept the position where government policies will favour those who least need assistance and discriminate against those who most need help. Nobody can convince me that the young couple who deprived themselves of some of the better things in life so that they might rear a family did not make a contribution to our society at least equal to that of those who both continued in employment. Certainly their need is far greater. If we consider also the cost of bringing migrants to Australia, surely we must recognise the value to this country in the long term of the natural born Australian. Yet we have discriminated against these people by Government policies because they were in a lower income group and because they had families. I believe that this is an ideal example of the way in which the previous government of Australia used its position to legislate not to eliminate inequalities, not to make any radical change in social structure for the benefit of our people but simply to improve its own chance of electoral victory. By contrast, we in the Australian Labor Party have striven over the years to win elections so that we might implement policies which are designed to achieve basic changes in the administration and in the structure of Australian society. 
In his opening address to the new Parliamest  His Excellency  the Governor-General outlined the Government's plan to effect these changes - a blueprint for the future of Australia and for the future of the Australian people. In the electorate that I represent we can see so clearly and in so many different ways need for plans for the future, the need to depart from the sterile policies of the past and to involve ourselves in building a new Australia. Possibly the most glaring example of a need for change can be seen in the area of development. For so many years now we have heard talk of decentralisation and regional development; yet the previous government allowed private investment capital to dictate completely the pattern and the pace of development in Australia. We have witnessed countless millions of dollars being spent to tear down perfectly good buildings in our cities so that bigger and better buildings might be erected. In doing so, of course, we have added to the problems of the people who live in the cities - the problem of pollution, the problem of providing essential services such as electricity, gas, water and sewerage, and the problem of providing transport facilities. Yet in the past no money has been available for development away from existing cities. 
The new Government's policy of providing for the promotion and growth of inland cities such as that proposed for the AlburyWodonga area is, T believe, an essential ingredient for the continued growth and balanced development of this country. However, I believe that for any program of regional development to be really effective it must not only look at the establishment and growth of regional centres but have regard also to the development of the whole area surrounding the centre and which makes up the complete region. I believe that an ideal example of what I am suggesting can be seen in the development of this city of Canberra - truly a beautiful city, well planned and designed to provide a quality of life that does not exist in our major cities. Both Canberra itself and the surroundings or the market area for Canberra would have enjoyed additional benefits if the functions of the National Capita] Development Commission had been expanded years ago to those of a regional development commission so that it might have planned the growth and development of the whole region and not Canbera in isolation. 
I venture to suggest that had this been the case I would not today be making representations to the appropriate Ministers for the urgent construction of a direct road between Canberra and Tumut. This road will provide not only quick access from the national capital to the recreation areas on the Tumut side of the Snowy Mountains scheme, and a desirable tourist road for those travelling west and south west from Canberra, but also ready access to the ever expanding markets of Canberra for fresh fruit and vegetables, dairy products, building materials and so on that are produced in the area which centres on Tumut and Batlow. Had Canberra been planned as the centre of a region, with the acceptance of the financial problem of surrounding shires in maintaining rural roads that are used primarily for the cartage by heavy vehicles of road building materials into the capital, certainly those shires would have been in a position to provide better services and at a lower cost to the ratepayers than is currently the position. With adequate planning and acceptance of responsibility for the increased demand on the road system surrounding Canberra, I would not today be flooded with complaints from daily commuters and casual travellers alike about the shocking conditions of the so-called Barton Highway which links Canberra with the major road system near Yass. 
Regional development can succeed not simply by the promotion of centres like Albury-Wodonga but by the planned development of regions and by encouraging the establishment in other parts of these regions of industries which properly belong in country areas - industries which can operate efficiently and competitively away from the larger cities. A few years ago people in the Canberra area were arguing about the future of the Canberra abattoir. Those living in Cootamundra and Goulburn, where abattoirs existed and could improve efficiency by increasing their daily kill, argued that the Canberra abattoir should be closed. Those living in Yass, where there was no abattoir but where the saleyards catered to a large extent for buyers killing at Canberra, wanted the Canberra works to remain open. Whilst the arguments that were put forward were valid and in the interests of the respective communities, I believe that the real point was missed. We should then have been united, not divided, and we should have been arguing the case for closure of the killing works at 
Homebush and the transfer of the operations from that centre to country areas where the industry properly belongs. Killing close to the city was the logical move when the Homebush abattoir commenced its operations, but with the provision of refrigerated transport so that carcasses can be shipped to the city areas without deterioration this industry can operate more efficiently where the meat is produced in our country areas. 
Throughout the 1972 election campaign and again in  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral's address at the opening of this Parliament the present Government has strongly emphasised the needs of social welfare, and in this field possibly one of the greatest needs .s the need to provide adequate care for aged people. The problems of looking after the aged are increasing as life expectancy increases and patterns of behaviour change. I believe that this problem is a responsibility on society as a whole. I would like this evening to speak briefly of one institution in the Hume electorate that has been involved in the care of aged people for more than half a century. The Mount St Joseph's home at Young commenced operations as an old persons' home with 25 inmates in 1921, and with the support of the citizens of Young and unaided by any government grant continued to cater for the aged and to expand the home to reach a capacity of 122 patients before the first New South Wales Government grant towards the provision of a new kitchen was made in 1966. A further grant of $35,000 from the New South Wales State Government together with $14,000 raised locally was used to provide central heating for the home. In the 1971-72 period $27,000 raised locally was added to a State Government grant of $168,000 to provide the home with a modern geriatric clinic. 
In the Budget last year the previous government made provision to meet the cost of hostel type accommodation and should be congratulated for its move in this direction. In his Budget Speech the former Treasurer said: 
To encourage the provision of hostel accommodation for the aged we will, as a special arrangement limited to 3 years, grant organisations that are eligible under the Aged Persons Homes Act special assistance. The Commonwealth will meet the cost of 2 hostel beds for every one unsubsidised bed operated by the organisation or one bed for 2 where the accommodation was previously subsidised on a dollar for dollar basis. 
A condition will be that the beds are allocated without donation and in accordance with need. These additional hostel beds will be provided up to a cost not exceeding $7,800 per single unit which is the amount presently allowable for maximum subsidy purposes. In addition, a grant of $250 per unit will be made towards the furnishing of these additional hostel units. 
Under this legislation the Mount St Joseph's Home attracts to the Canberra-Goulburn Archdiocese an allocation of finance for 232 beds. It is desirous, subject to suitable arrangements with the Archdiocesan authorities, of taking up an allocation for 100 beds in new quarters to be built adjacent to the existing home at Young. Unfortunately preliminary studies carried out at Young and elsewhere indicate that the minimum cost of providing the type of accommodation considered desirable, together with common rooms and dining rooms, to cater for aged people would exceed the available grant by approximately $1,200 per bed. It would be impossible, and certainly an unfair imposition on the people of Young who have given so generously over the years, to raise the $120,000 necessary to proceed with the project at present cost. It seems certain from the experience of the past that considerable further increases in costs would be effective before the project was completed in possibly 2 years time. I am hopeful that the present Government will give sympathetic consideration, at the appropriate time, to the requests of people who have given generously of their time and effort over the years in providing a facility which is, basically, a responsibility of society generally. 
In addressing myself to this debate I have attempted to look at some of those matters which relate to or directly affect specific groups of people in the Hume electorate. Some of the matters I have referred to are peculiar to that electorate whilst others are common to country areas. However, the contents of the Governor-General's address as a whole constitute a fine document which reiterates the promises made by the Australian Labor Party prior to the elections of 2nd December. It sets out an exciting program for implementation by this Parliament and, I believe, is worthy of careful consideration by all honourable members. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to  Mr Schneider's  article in the 'Daily Telegraph' today claiming that the Federal Government's health insurance scheme will cost far more than anticipated, and that rising doctors' and hospital fees have turned and will continue to turn the Government's costing of its health scheme into an underestimate? Are these statements correct and is he justified in suggesting that a change in the circumstances surrounding the operation of the proposed scheme will result in the maximum cost per family being higher than his estimate of $135 a year? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Are any reliable estimates available of the amount of carryover or reserve stocks of wheat which will be on hand in Australia prior to the next wheat harvest? Is it a fact that the position is quite critical? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Capital Territory. I refer to his reported decision to reactivate the Prices Regulation Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory and to appoint a prices controller. Does the Minister have in mind any particular cases as being appropriate for investigation by the prices controller? How does he see the Ordinance serving the interests of the people of Canberra? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry provide any details of the methods by which expenditure incurred by the Australian Government in the campaign to eradicate brucellosis and tuberculosis will be recouped as was announced by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech? From what period will this recoupment apply? 
I support the Budget introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on 24 August. It is the first Budget introduced by a Labor Government for 24 years. We on this side of the House are not ashamed that it reflects the changes in approach to national problems promoted by the Australian Labor Party and endorsed by the Australian electorate last December. I reject the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  as rather shallow, an expression of the past policies of the former Government and a misrepresentation of the present Government's policies. We have just heard the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  say that if one could find a fault with the present Government it is that it has tried to do everything. Rather than talk about policies as he said he would do he went on to speak about personalities and to complain that certain things had not been done, lt did not seem to line up with his idea of what the one fault might have been. 
The policies of the present Government have been quite positive. There have been significant changes in government attitudes. The most significant change from the pattern of past years is that the Budget is not the one document in the year which purports to determine the direction of the Government's policies and actions. Rather it is part of the continuing process of government and brings together the actions and initiatives that have been taken and those that are approved. The Budget should be considered in conjunction with the effects of legislation already enacted during the first half of this year. Above all else the Budget indicates a national program of reform and innovation and a dramatic departure from the concept of previous years - the concept displayed in recent Budgets which resulted from considerations of electoral popularity, political expediency and a compromise between the opposed forces of the Liberal Party and the Country Party. 
A couple of days ago the honourable members for Calare  (Mr England)  referred to the initiatives of the Government but he had to preface this by referring to the approaching Parramatta by-election. Apparently the thinking of honourable members opposite is that every action taken by a government must have some ulterior motive. The Leader of the Opposition in his speech on the Budget referred only briefly to the rural sector. He accused the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  and me of having abandoned our electors. The suggestion was that we should have different policies for different electorates. 

 It is interesting that the right honourable gentleman referred to primary producers but did not mention all the other people outside rural industry who are employed in country areas. He did not refer to the factory workers, shop assistants and council employees. All of these people are Australian citizens and are entitled to share equally in the national benefits with their city cousins and people involved in the rural industries. It was very presumptuous of the right honourable gentleman to make that accusation but apparently he is also thinking in terms of the past when members of the Country Party made their submissions and if they did not get what they wanted in the Budget or in other legislation they were regarded as having abandoned their electorates. So they went before their electors and  told  them what they wished to hear. Very often it was a vastly different story from the story they told in the Parliament. 
I remember very well a member of the Country Party who attended a meeting of his constituents and congratulated them on their initiative in organising a protest meeting about the embargo on the export of merino rams. He said: 'I am pleased that you came to me. I agree with you and your opinions will give me added strength to take this matter back to the Parliament.' But what did he and every other member of the Country Party do when returning to the Parliament?. They have 2 voices, one for the Parliament and one for the people. If there has been any abandonment of the electors it has been the Leader of the Opposition who has abandoned the Aus tralian electorate. He holds a responsible position in the Australian Parliament but consistently he has refused to exercise properly the functions of his position. He has resorted to a negative approach to most problems and to cheap attempts to score political points over the Government should the opportunity arise. 
The Leader of the Opposition stated that the Budget was bad for country people. I suggest that he should look at the legislation that has been passed by the Government which is beneficial to every section of the Australian community. I refer to legislation with respect to education, for example. We should remember that this Budget almost doubles the amount of money provided for education. Does the right honourable gentleman suggest that country people will not share in the benefits of the increased expenditure on education? I hasten to point out that our approach to this problem is vastly different from the approach of previous governments. We accept that education is a State matter. We do not want to take it over, but the Government has decided in its wisdom to make a financial contribution to education to provide every child with an opportunity for learning to a proper and acceptable standard. To achieve this end assistance to education must be given on the basis of needs and this is our approach. 
Does the Leader of the Opposition suggest that country people do not share in the benefits of improved social welfare or the benefits flowing from our contributions to housing and health? Does he realise, that the plight of unmarried mothers and deserted wives in country areas as well as in the cities which produced so many personal tragedies under the previous Government's policies has been attended to? As to assistance to rural industry the Budget merely sets out the amounts anticipated to be required, without actually removing any obligation to meet further costs if necessary. Nobody could deny that the financial position of primary industries today is so much better than it was in previous years under the former Government and that it is reasonable to expect a reduced requirement for assistance to those industries. I will give an example. The estimated amount of assistance for wool marketing in 1973-74 is  $575,000  compared -with about 34,200,000 in 1972-73; it is about one-seventh of the previous amount. 
I believe that the Leader of the Opposition is patently dishonest when he suggests that this 
Government has reduced aid to primary industries. For any industry stable and satisfactory prices are better than subsidies paid as a result of ad hoc decisions. Generally speaking, assistance to primary industries has been increased above that given in previous years. I must say that I am disappointed that the Treasurer saw fit to increase country telephone rentals and postage rates on some articles and also to increase the duty on motor fuel. I do not deny that there is logic in the argument that the cost of providing telephone services in country areas is greater than in the cities and that rental charges should be equalised. However, if this is to be done, the least we can do for country people is to alter the charging method for calls by country people so that they can ring up their nearest major centre on a local call charge. 
The increase in postal rates will particularly hit country newspapers. Many country readers depend on the post to receive copies of the local rag. We are still in the position where there are some independent papers in country areas, despite the move by the Press barons to take over all means of communication. It will be a pity to see some of these newspapers shut down or sold out because of the additional costs incurred by this Budget. Increased costs for motor fuel will, of course, add to all costs, particularly in country areas where many of the articles consumed by the public are subject to freight charges. I have made representations to the Ministers involved in these matters and I hope that some result will be obtained. 
Throughout this debate, members of the Opposition have made repeated references to inflation. The Leader of the Opposition has suggested a temporary price-wage freeze. Is it not amusing what the change from government to Opposition has done to members of the Opposition? Their thinking has changed completely. Had the Leader of the Opposition made his suggestion about the price-wage freeze when his Party had the power to do something about it, people may not have thought, as they do now, that it was simply a matter of cheap politics. 
Since Robert Menzies won the 1949 election on. among other things, his promise to put value back into the pound the previous Government consistently failed to take any positive action on prices and wages, other than to oppose wage increases as the prime cause of inflation. Yet in his Budget speech this year the Leader of the Opposition once again changed his tune. He put forward the argument that the Labor Party had been putting to the Liberal Party and the Country Party for many years. He used his arithmetical powers to prove that the working man is slipping further behind in his seeking of wage increases to combat the effect of inflation. There is no doubt that one of the factors contributing to inflation in Australia today is the higher prices being received by the primary producer. 
How many honourable members opposite are prepared to stand up and say that the farmer is getting more than he should get for his product? This is a cause of inflation. Do honourable members opposite suggest that the producer is receiving too much for his sheep, his beef, his wool or his wheat? Do they suggest, for instance, that the Australian Government has the power to do a great deal about inflation when the major States of Australia - under the control of Liberal-Country Party governments - have consistently refused to exercise any of the powers that they hold on price restraint? Members of the present Opposition not only have failed to take any action on prices but they support, and are supported by, those in the community who have been in a position to raise their prices and profits unjustifiably and who have done so with no real concern for the national problems. Many prices in Australia have been raised unnecessarily specifically to avoid the implications of an investigation by the Prices Justification Tribunal. The task of controlling inflation is next to impossible while the States hold the power of price fixation and refuse to use that power. This Government has made a definite attempt to make some impact on inflation. I believe that if a referendum were put to the people of Australia asking them to give the Australian Government the power of price fixation, it would be carried overwhelmingly. 
Within the restrictions placed on any government during its first term of office - one of these restrictions, of course, is the fact that many of the Budget items are pre-determined by actions taken by previous governments - and within the scope allowed by the Constitution of Australia and with the exceptions to which I have just referred and to which I object. I believe that the 1973-74 Budget is sound. It is a Budget which is designed to secure a reallocation of the wealth and resources of Australia so that those people who, for so many years, have been in dire necessity can and will receive a little more of the share of the properity they have helped to create. The Treasurer has done a magnificent job in the presentation of this Budget. It is a Budget which has not only financial implications but also social implications. It is part of a program of innovation and reform which will ultimately benefit the whole of the Australian community. I believe that the document deserves the support of the Parliament. 
'Does the Minister for Immigration have any proposals to divert from capital cities some of the flow of migrants which for many years has been directed mainly to the inner city areas of Sydney and Melbourne? In view of the problems of overcrowding in those areas will the Minister agree to take the pressure off them and to assist the country areas? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of reports in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' and the Melbourne 'Sun' today indicating that the  President  of the Australian Farmers Federation has criticised the Australian Country 
Party for its opposition to the Industries Assistance Commission Bill saying that the public should not be deluded that the Country Party was a champion of rural industry? Did  Mr Hogan  request a minor amendment to the Bill and, if so, will the Minister seek to have this proposal investigated? 
I congratulate the Labor Government, on behalf of the people whom I represent, for the initiatives it has taken in trade. I refer especially to the vital role that the Australian Government has played in creating the relationship with China that has led to the signing of the greatest long term contract ever negotiated in any Australian rural commodity. There can be no belittling of the importance of this agreement with China. It is a real bonanza for the wheat growers. It is colossal. The Federal Labor Government has won many friends in the countryside because of it. The agreement sign' -1 recently in Peking by the Australian Wheat t Board and the China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation guarantees the Australian wheat growers chat over the 3-year period they will be able to sell China up to 4.7 million tonnes of wheat. The value of this wheat, on current interrational prices, could be at least $600m. 
This historic agreement means that the Australian wheat growers can plan ahead with certainty that a large part of their crop will have a guaranteed market. This is what wheat growers want. They have wanted it for years. The Labor Government has given it to them because it believes in stability in rural incomes and certainty for the future for growers. Let us not forget that the loss of the Chinese market for wheat in 1970 was a dreadful blow to the hopes of Australian wheat growers. We should not forget that this happened because of the pig-headed political policies of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. Let us not forget also that, as a result, Canada was given priority as a seller of wheat to China because of the realistic step that the Canadians had taken in recognising China. From then on, Canadian wheat growers had the advantage over Australian wheat growers in this vital market. Thanks to the work of the Australian Labor Party and this Government, Australian wheat growers are now back in the China market with the best arrangement ever made to guarantee an outlet for a large proportion of their produce. 
But what is the attitude of the Opposition parties? All they are able to do is to try to belittle this agreement. Not one of them has uttered in this chamber a word of praise for the Government. The Leader of the Country Party, the right honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony),  sulks with envy. Yet, he was a member of th - previous Government which could have taken the initiative to establish sensible relations with China and could have taken steps to safeguard our wheat market in China. Instead, it was the fanatical attitude of people such as the Leader of the Country Party that caused us to lose the market. Where do the Oppos ition parties stand now on the question of China? This is a very important question for Australian wheat growers. Not the slightest doubt exists in my mind that, if they were ever re-elected to government, they would throw the whole wheat agreement into jeopardy 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  claims that his Party would not disrupt the new relationship with China. But, at the same time, he still wants relations at a high level with Taiwan. Before he went to China in July last, the Leader of the Opposition told a meeting of the Australian University Liberal Federation in Melbourne that a Liberal government would renew relations with Taiwan. A news report in the 'Australian' in June quoted him as saying that it would be his policy to re-establish, at the highest level possible, relationships with Taiwan'. What does this mean? It means that a Liberal government - if ever elected - would treat Taiwan as a separate, independent government, separate from China. The Leader of the Opposition would try to re-establish relations with Chiang Kai-shek. I am convinced that this reactionary policy would ruin Australia's long term wheal agreement with China and wreck the possibility of it being renewed under a LiberalCountry Party government. 
What is the policy of the Country Party with respect to China? Its members have nol said a word. Nobody knows for certain because their Leader, who has been preoccupied with trying to arrange a marriage of convenience with the Democratic Labor Party, has not had the courage to say whether he is for or against the recognition of China. Obviously, the Leader of the Country Party shares the reactionary views of the Leader of the Liberal Party. The Leader of the Country Party is more captive to the fanatical antiChinese policies of the DLP than ever before. Obviously, therefore, he would share its views towards Taiwan. So, if the Country Party were ever returned to office it would jeopardise the relationship established by the Labor Government with China. The people who would be the first to suffer would be the Australian wheat growers. 
I reiterate a question which I heard posed in the course of the last general election campaign. I believe that it was posed to the Leader of the Country Party by a leader of industry. This man said: 'In 1949, every person involved in primary production was doing fine. He was prosperous. Today, after 23 years of Liberal Country Party rule, he is either broke or fighting against bankruptcy. If you can tell me why and satisfactorily explain the situation, I might vote for the Country Party'. Ten months after the election of the Labor Government, one could pose the following question: 'Today, after 10 months of Labor Government rule in Canberra, every primary producer is doing fine. Why?' 
I turn now to a different subject. I commend the Labor Government on the steps that it has taken to assist the farming community against the cost of tariff protection. I refer to the 25 per cent tariff cut announced in July by this Government. The Labor Government won many friends in rural Australia with this policy. For 23 years, under a Liberal-Country Party government, Australian farmers cried in vain for relief from the high cost that they were paying for protection of Australian manufacturers. They never received it. But the Labor Government provided it. This was a major breakthrough for Australian farmers, and they appreciated it. Every farming organisation in the country applauded this action as an enlightened and courageous move to restructure secondary industry and to attack inflation. 
But what was the attitude of the Liberal and Country Parties? They both attacked the tariff cut. We have heard it attacked tonight. Playing a short-sighted game of party politics, the Leader of the Country Party described the tariff cuts as 'cowardly*. We heard one Country Party member say that if this action had been taken years ago it might have been effective. But he was a member of the Government at that time and his Party was a partner in the Government coalition. What an absurd statement from the Leader of the Country Party, a man who claims that his Party speaks for growers. 
Little wonder then that farmers all over Australia thought that the Leader of the Country Party had lost his sense of proportion and was unable to speak for farmers, just because he had to speak against whatever Labor did, even when he must have known that Labor's actions were for the good of producers. Little wonder, too, that farmers object to the pretentions of the Country Party that it speaks for them. So, we see  Mr W.  N. Hogan,  President  of the Australian Farmers Federation, reported in this morning's 'Sydney Morning Herald' as saying that the public should not be deluded that the Country Party is a champion of rural industry.  Mr Hogan's  attack on the Country Party came after the Country Party proved that it was not interested in a new approach to tariffs as outlined in the Government's new Industries Assistance Commission Bill. I could say much more to applaud the action taken by the Government to counter rising costs by the establishment of the Prices Justification Tribunal, the Restrictive Trade Practices Act and by so many Bills that have been introduced into this Parliament but which have been opposed by the Country Party. I commend the Government for its positive policies. I applaud the beneficial effects that they are calculated to have on the rural community. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Capital Territory. Does the Minister have any knowledge of the death last Friday night of 2 people as a result of a road accident on the Barton Highway about one mile outside the Australian Capital Territory? Is the Minister aware that the accident occurred at a spot at which the road diminishes from a 24-foot wide quality surface to a narrow sub-standard surface? In view of the fact that the condition of the roadway must be accepted as being at least a possible factor contributing to the cause of the tragedy, will the Minister seek an urgent conference with the appropriate New South Wales Minister with a view to having the position rectified or, alternatively, will he recommend to Cabinet that the Australian Government should offer to accept responsibility for the reconstruction and maintenance to acceptable standards of roads linking the Australian Capital Territory with the State roads system, including the Barton Highway from Canberra to Yass and the road from Canberra to Tumut? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour. Did the terms of settlement of the Trans-Australia Airlines dispute provide for the pilots' lifting of the threat of lightning strikes, and has the dismissed pilot been re-employed? 
Can the Minister for Minerals and Energy inform the House as to the position of iron ore producers obtaining compensation from the Japanese steel industry following the devaluation of the United States dollar earlier this year? 
In opening this session of the Australian Parliament,  Her  Majesty, the Queen of Australia, summarised in concise terms the legislative program of the present Government. She said that in this session the Government would continue with its policies of reform and innovation. It seems to me that the speakers on the opposite side of this House are completely out of touch. They have no idea of realism or of what the people are thinking. When they speak here they speak for themselves and certainly for nobody else. We have had much criticism from the Opposition side of the House on the Government's approach to national problems and particularly to the problems concerning inflation. Much has been made of the present rate of inflation but no effort has been made by the Opposition to assist in the correction of what everyone recognises to be a very real problem. All efforts by the Government to tackle the problem, including the referendum seeking a national power over prices and incomes, have been resisted and in fact opposed by the Opposition. 
There is the continuous cry that Government spending should be reduced. But of course there is no specific area that the Liberal Party or the Australian Country Party is prepared to nominate as one where spending can be curbed. Would they have us reduce spending on social security or education? We have just been told that not enough is being spent on social security and that pensions are not adequate. Would they have us reduce spending on defence or overseas aid or do they prefer just to stand up and say 'reduce spending' and not indicate where? In recent weeks the Country Party has consistently attacked the Government on rural policy. It has claimed that all primary production is emerging from a period of crisis after crisis and so it needs some special considerations. I believe that the Australian electorate is beginning to recognise the falsity of this assertion and, of course, it does not escape the people that the Governments of the previous 23 years played their part in achieving the tragic position in which so many rural workers found themselves. 
The Government insists that primary producers are not in a special class of their own; they are quite capable of looking after themselves and their own affairs. They are entitled to the same sort of assistance as is applicable to all other industries. In order to facilitate this assistance the Government introduced the Industries Assistance Commission Bill to provide the means by which any industry, either primary or secondary, could have initiated a public inquiry to determine the type and extent of assistance, if any, required to enable the viable operation of that industry. But wc saw the attitude of the Country Party and the Liberal Party. They opposed the Industries Assistance Commission Bill. They did not want to see assistance to primary industry on the same basis as secondary industry. They would not accept the fact that for years the assistance that has been granted to primary industry in infinitesimal compared to that accorded to secondary industry. It is possibly appropriate now to remind honourable members of the Country Party that they joined with the Liberals in opposing the Bill. 
For many years in government the Country Party spoke in extravagant terms of the things that should be done for primary industry. But the electorate became disenchanted when the Country Party failed to produce the goods. This Government initiated an in-depth study of all primary industries, but in the meantime set out to cure the problem where the cause lay. Marketing is the main consideration for any industry. It is of little use to produce goods which cannot be sold or for which an inadequate price cannot be obtained. The Government has tackled this problem at the roots. We heard just a few minutes ago once again a member of the Country Party denigrating our association with China. For years in Government the Country Party refused to accept the fact that China existed. But now, with the sale of 4.7 million tonnes of wheat, worth some $600m at current prices- 
The previous Government gave it away for years and would still be giving it away; the producer would not get anything for it. Sales of some 300,000 tonnes of sugar a year have been negotiated. The Country Party thinks these things do not matter and that it is better to bury its head in the sand, to pretend that China is not a country at all, and that one-third of the world's population does not exist. The Country Party continues on its merry way. Who pays for this attitude? The Country Party does not pay for it; the primary producer pays for it. A few moments ago we were told about our association with the United States of America. One honourable member said that the former Government did all its dealings with the United States in private. Does he not know that there were tapes at Watergate? There has not been a private conversation in America for years and we should not forget it. 
New markets have been negotiated for primary production and we have guaranteed sales for many years to come. Every possible initiative has been taken in an effort to reduce the rate of inflation in Australia. The Country Party initiated tariff protection for secondary industries which added so much to import costs to the farmer. This has been reduced and primary industry is at least well on its way to recovery. It has been admitted that this is the case. We are told now that primary industry is in a much better position than it has been in for years. But of course this is only coincidental with the change of Government. Honourable members should use their heads. Industries started to pick up after the change of government. What other reason could there be than that this was caused by the change of government? Primary producers are recognising this. 
What is the difference? A new wheat agreement has been negotiated to the satisfaction of the industry and the Wool Corporation report is to hand. Positive policies have been pursued in contrast to inequitable subsidies and wheat quotas and so on that were the policy of the previous Government. 
The Country Party introduced them. There are still people on wheat quotas. We were told by a member of the Country Party tonight about the starving millions of the world, yet the Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales has people on a wheat quota and refuses to give them permission to produce wheat. How laughable. There is one basis and one basis only for a comparison between the policies of this Government and the previous government and their effect on primary industries, and that is in terms of income to primary producers. Every primary producer in Australia will tell us today that he is far better off than he was before. He is far better off under a Labor Government than he has been for years under an anti-Labor administration. 
I should like to make a few brief references now to constitutional proposals for the future. The Government proposes to ask the Australian people to approve of various amendments to the Constitution by way of referendums at the time of the next Senate election. The first of these proposals is to allow an amendment to the Constitution to ensure that Senate elections are held at the same time as House of Representatives elections - a reform designed to correct the position created by 

 Sir Robert Menzies when Prime Minister, which requires an election each year.  Mr Whitlam,  the Prime Minister of Australia, as Leader of the Opposition before the last election, promised that the Government would take action on this matter. People are sick and tired of going to an election each year. They have a State election one year, a House of Representatives election the next year, and a Senate election the next. But this situation has not concerned honourable members oppo  site.  They have carried on under these conations for years. They have even gone to the extent now of opposing not only the principle of allowing the referendums to go to the people but also the Bills which will allow the people to have their say. Honourable members opposite do not want the people to have their say. Why should the Senate election not be held at the same time as the House of Representatives election? 
We will come to that next. The second proposal is to allow the electors in the 
Australian  Capital Territory and the Northern Territory to vote at referendums on proposed laws to alter the Constitution. I suppose that honourable members opposite will deny to electors in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory the right to vote at referendums. 
The Opposition is opposed to the Bill and it will oppose the referendum. It does not want the people to have a say on this matter. Obviously the people in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are citizens and are entitled to a vote. Residents of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory have had to wait for the Labor Party to come to office before these proposals could be put to the people in an attempt to gain some measure of democracy and of justice for them. 
Another proposal is to alter the Constitution to enable the Commonwealth to borrow money for and grant financial assistance to local governments. Once again this is a matter which has been requiring attention for a long time. Our local government authorities have been in dire straits. We know the difficulties under which they are working. We know that the local government debt has increased many times while the federal debt has been reduced. But honourable members opposite were quite happy with that situation. It did not matter to them that local governments could not properly perform the functions for which they were elected. This Government will ask the people to decide whether the Federal Government - the national Government of Australia - should have the right to give financial assistance directly to local governments. 
The other proposals are to allow an interchange of powers between the Commonwealth Parliament and the State parliaments and to ensure that members of the House of Representatives and members of the parliaments of the States are chosen directly and democratically by the people. I notice that Opposition members have no argument with that. Apparently they agree that the people of Australia should have the democratic right to elect representatives to the Federal Parliament and to the State parliaments on the basis of electors or population rather than as has been the case in the past, on the basis of gerrymandered boundaries. We are told that honourable members opposite are frightened that the Labor Party has embarked on a course which will enable it to hold government for all time. If this is the case, they do not have much confidence in the people who will make the choice. If the Opposition is afraid to give everybody an equal right to have a say in the government of this country and if it is frightened that this say will deprive it of office, I am afraid that it is admitting that it should not be in office in the first place. 
This Government stands on its policies. For years we heard the members of the Country Party speak about what should be done for rural people and what should be done for rural industries, but nothing was done. That is why they are where they are today. Nothing was done for rural people and nothing was done for rural industries. Today something has been done. The first criterion by which one can judge this is the income of rural people. It is immeasurably higher today than it was under the previous Government, and the people of Australia recognise this. The people of Australia will back us up all the way. Who but the present Opposition would oppose the Bills by which we propose to change the Constitution or attempt to deny to the people of Australia the benefits and democratic rights to which they are entitled. I do not think one would find another Opposition in Australia which would be prepared to oppose not only the legislation which would allow these referendums to be put to the people but also the right of the people of Australia to decide for themselves. Honourable members opposite are the judges and the jury. They sit in this House, dissociated from their constituents, with no idea of the wishes, aspirations or hopes of those constitutents, and they pass judgment. But they are not passing judgment on the Government; they are passing judgment on themselves. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Northern Territory. Is the Minister aware that as a result of cyclone Jenny some 300 persons, including approximately 200 Aboriginal children, elderly people and nuns, are stranded on the Daly River mission at Misery Hill in the Northern Territory? Is it a fact that the weather situation has been reported to be deteriorating? Will the Minister ensure that urgent action is taken to safeguard those people? 
What does the Minister for Overseas Trade regard as being the underlying reasons for the recent increases in imports into Australia? Are these increases in line with the Government's policies on these matters? Does he consider that the consequences of these increases will be beneficial to the Australian consumer and to the economy as a whole? 
Can the Minister for Transport indicate what stage has been reached in investigating a new road system linking Goulburn, Yass, Canberra, Tumut and Albury? 
