-I rise to oppose these 2 Bills- the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill and the Representation Bill. On 3 occasions the House of Representatives has passed a Bill dealing not with its own membership and its own composition but dealing with the membership and composition of the Senate. On 3 occasions the Senate has rejected a Bill dealing with its own composition and its own membership- a Bill not originating in the Senate but being imposed upon it by a government whose professed philosophy is to abolish the Senate. We maintain the principle that there should be 2 Houses of the Commonwealth Parliament- a House of government and a House of review. We are fortified in that view because our history indicates that we would not have the nation we have today unless we had had a House of the people and a House of the States. We believe that the future of this country lies in maintaining the House of the people and the House where the States' representations can be heard and can be given advancement. 
I believe that the members of the Liberal Party of Australia and the Australian Country Party would endorse my statement that if only the Australian Labor Party would break down the concept that the Party is more important than the States, the Senate would be able to exercise in a more meaningful way its role as the States House. Until that happens there will be a limited value of the Senate as a States House. But it is still a place in which representatives of the States are able to speak and to have their voice heard. This Bill seeks to break down the authority of the Senate, to weaken the power of the Senate and to deny to the States that voice which our Federal compact sought to give to them. The Bill is the signal step in the obliteration of the Senate as a second chamber in which there is an opportunity for the States' voice to influence and to determine national policy. Throughout this debate we have heard of the so-called obstruction of the 
Senate. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  this morning referred to it constantly. I have heard other speakers on behalf of the Labor Party referring to the obstructionism of the Senate. There is no obstructionism from the Senate if we are democrats and recognise that the voice of the people can be expressed in 2 chambers each elected on a democratic basis. When one looks at the pattern of 1 973 what does one find? At the end of 1973 the Prime Minister spent a considerable time in an address to this chamber. He claimed it was a record year of achievement unsurpassed in the history of Federation for the Parliament to pass the number of Bills which were passed in 1973. Statistically the Prime Minister is entitled to his record. But he cannot have it both ways, because if 1973 was the year of great achievement, it cannot be the year of unparalleled obstruction on the part of the Senate. The record shows that in 1973 223 Bills were brought to the Senate from the House of Representatives and that all but ten of those Bills were passed. There is no record of obstruction in that performance. 
I look to see what has happened in this current session of the Parliament in accordance with the sheet which is distributed by the officers of the House of Representatives. I find that the only Bills that have been rejected in this sitting are these Bills which are currently before the Joint Sitting. It is quite easy to recognise from what has happened already in the House of Representatives that a pattern comparable to that of 1973 is likely to emerge and that pattern is not a pattern of obstruction. The talk of obstruction and frustration is the only refuge open to a government which has seen those promises which were so easily made equally easily dishonoured in performance. It has to find some argument, some reason, to explain to the people of Australia why it cannot deliver that which it so grandiosely promised in 1972. It must give some explanation as to why the high hopes and the expectations have been so dismally rewarded. So it talks of obstruction and frustration in the Senate. It would like to have the Senate abolished or, if not abolished, to have it reduced in influence, because by reducing the influence and ability of the Senate, this House, dominated by the Labor Party, would be able to achieve what it wanted simply by the passing of the Bills through the numbers which it possesses, and there would be no means whereby the people of Australia could be prevented from suffering the excesses of that authoritarianism. Therefore, because the Senate cannot be abolished, we have an underhand means whereby the influence of the Senate is sought to be reduced. That is the purpose of this Bill. 
I know it has been said by  Senator Murphy  today, and by spokesmen on behalf of the Government when the Bill was before the House of Representatives and the Senate in the past, that the purpose of the Bill is to give representation to the Territories. It is said that we cannot have a proper representation in this country until the Territories are given representation. But this is an argument of 1974 which did not have appeal in the 74 years of our nation's Federation. When, in 1972, the Northern Territory was given representation in the House of Representatives there was no suggestion that for a proper representation there should be a representation also in the Senate. When, in 1948, representation was given to the Australian Capital Territory by a Labor government there was no suggestion at that time that there should be representation in the Senate in order to give effective representation to that Territory. There has never been any suggestion by this Government in connection with its present proposals that any one of the other Territories of the Commonwealth should be given representation. Why are simply 2 Territories singled out? I suggest that the reason lies in the means by which the Government expects that it can influence the votes, to give it control of the Senate, in the representation from those Territories. 
We are not told, for example, why it is essential that there should be representation in 2 chambers. If the basis of representation is that there are matters affecting either of the Territories in respect of which representatives of those Territories should have a voice in the passing of the laws which relate to those Territories, that right is already given by the representation in the House of Representatives. Of course, within the last 12 months the Australian Capital Territory has been given an additional representative in the House of Representatives. Concepts of one vote one value have not influenced the Australian Labor Party to deny that overrepresentation to the Australian Capital Territory. 
Why, for example, should there be 2 senators from only two of the many Commonwealth Territories? We have not heard any argument or been given any reason as to why there should be 2 senators. It appears that the principle, if once accepted, is a principle which could be expanded so that instead of 2 there could be 10 or 50 representatives from each of the Territories. If that principle were to be accepted and implemented the purpose of the Senate as a 
States House with equality of representation between the States would cease to have meaning. I can only say that the best argument against the second of these Bills- the Representation Bill- is that if the existing law remains unamended it will be a preventive to increasing the representation of the Territories in the Senate because to do it under the existing law would involve doubling the number of members of the House of Representatives every time there was an increase in the number of Territory representatives in the Senate. I believe, therefore, that it is appropriate that we keep the Representation Act unamended. That explains why the Opposition parties will vote against both of these Bills. 
I have said that there is a real purpose lurking behind the ostensible purpose for these Bills being introduced. If, for example, one looks at the quotas which senators have to achieve to be elected in the States of New South Wales and Victoria at a periodic half Senate election, and then looks at what would be required to elect a senator from the Territories one will have not only a remarkable admiration for the dexterity with which the one vote one value principle can be espoused and then denied by members of the Labor Party, but also a picture of how unjust the representation would be. In 1970- the figures would be greater now, of course- a person required almost 300,000 votes to be elected as a senator in New South Wales. In Victoria he required almost 225,000 votes. But to be elected a senator for the Australian Capital Territory all that would have been required in 1973 was 28,000 votes and to be elected a senator from the Northern Territory all that would have been required was 10,600 votes. Where is the one vote one value principle of the Labor Party in that concept? Where is the justice in that sort of presentation? 
We ought to recognise that the Labor Party is a party which, since it has been in Government, has exercised a power of patronage and corruption which is unequalled anywhere in Australia's history- and the record of some of the States does not bear too close a scrutiny. We have seen public funds expended in millions of dollars for the purpose of capturing support for and ensuring it will remain with the Labor Party. If one examines the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory and considers the methods which have been adopted one can only believe that the intent of this Bill is to ensure that representation from both of those places ultimately will be secured for a Labor Government which, by the expenditure of money, buys votes. 
We have seen by the Government the expenditure of money for specific purposes which, if it had been expended by an individual during an election campaign, would have exposed him to the offence- the illegal practice- of treating. It is by this means that we have seen developing in this country the use of patronage in order to secure votes. I take the Northern Territory as an example. We know that it is a significant and growing electorate in which there are many Aborigines. Many of the Aborigines of Australia have benefited from the actions of a recent Minister- not the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs- who went around Australia distributing Government largesse in millions of dollars. Why? He said it was to advance the Aborigines. Knowing the Minister, I can say he does have that sort of heart. He would have wanted to advance the Aborigines but, at the same time, he let those who followed him say with some conviction: 'Take away this Government, change the Government, and the largesse which you are receiving will not be available to you any longer'. That is patronage, that is corruption and that is the way in which votes can be won and it was the way in which of course, prior to the English Reform Acts, votes were won in the United Kingdom. We do not want to see this happening in this country. We do not want to see crucial representation in the Senate secured by that means. 
When we look at the Australian Capital Territory we look at an electorate which is predominantly a Public Service electorate. I have here a copy of the Melbourne 'Age' which was published during the election campaign and which has the headline: 'Pledge gets Labor PS cash'. When one looks at the Adelaide 'Advertiser' of about the same date one sees the headline: '$10,000 gift to ALP "blackmail".' When one reads the account of what happened we find that a Public Service organisation gave $10,000 to the Australian Labor Party as part of a business deal. The arrangement was made by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  with the Secretary of the organisation. The Secretary of that organisation in a letter sent to his office bearers in other places said: 
A friend to support our cause in Cabinet is most helpful. He- 
That is the Minister -  indicated if a donation was made, he would continually remind his colleagues of this. The making of a donation - 
These are the crucial words: 
The making of a donation is in fact a business matter which would assist in the objects of the Association . . . 
By that means the Association avoided the provision of its constitution that it should not be partisan in political matters. I can only say, to make point of what I have been stating, that in 1969 the Liberal Party secured 22.8 per cent of the vote in the Australian Capital Territory. In 1969 the 2 representatives from the Australian Capital Territory would have been representatives of the Australian Labor Party. In 1972 the Liberal Party secured 26 per cent of the votes and again the result would have been the same and members of the Labor Party know this. Of course, in 1974 when in so many significant parts of the country the dangers of a continuing Labor Government were recognised the Liberal Party vote swelled to a much higher percentage. Nevertheless, I am confident, the belief of the Labor Party is that by the distribution of Government largesse and by the exercise of patronage the necessary votes can be secured. 
We oppose the Bill which seeks to reduce the effectiveness of the Senate and which seeks to take a way from the Senate its essential character as a States House. To interpose into the Senate representatives of the Territories is to break the Federal contact and to deny to the States the opportunity through equal electorates to ensure that by an equally democratic base there is a voice which can be put alongside the voice of the people not divided into States as electorates. We oppose this Bill because it is another of those measures by which the Government, without expressing its ultimate intentions, is seeking to pull the wool over the eyes of the Australian people. It is in denial of the one vote one value principle, which was the kernel of their support for the previous measure. How can there be one vote one value when 28,000 votes in the Northern Territory will elect one senator and 300,000 votes are required to elect one senator in New South Wales. It is a denial of the one vote one value principle and it is the Labor Party which is putting up this proposal. 
It is a Bill which would give a disproportionate influence to the Territory senators so that they would have the deciding votes in any issue on which, having regard to the equality of State representation, the major parties would be equally divided. It is a Bill which flatly ignores the decision of the referendum last May by seeking to give to the Territory senators a tenure of office equal to that of the life of a member of the House of Representatives. That was a concept we put to the people and it was rejected by the people. It is a Bill which is not in the interest of the Territories because it does not give them what they are looking for most, and that is effective self-government. It is finally a Bill which opens the way to patronage and corruption on the grandest scale. These are matters which ought to be exposed to the people of Australia, even if it has taken a joint sitting to make the facts known to them. 
