I ask the Treasurer a question about the quinquennial investigation of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund for the year ended 30th June 1967. Has the Treasurer received the report of the Superannuation Board, which bis predecessor stated in August 1969 should be available by December 1969? If so, will he say whether there is a surplus available for distribution and if there is, when and how it will be distributed? If the report has not yet been received will the Treasurer update the prognostications of his predecessor? 
I would like to thank the people of the Banks electorate for showing their confidence in me to act as their representative and at the same time to pay a tribute to my predecessor,  Mr Eric  Costa, who was their representative for a period of 20 years. Eric Costa was a diligent and sincere member of this Parliament. He gave of his best during the whole of his service, and this included a period of time when he was not blessed with good health. I am certain that he had the respect of every member of the Parliament, both Government and Opposition. My intention is to attempt to give the same type of representation as Eric Costa. If I can do this I will be more than happy. 
Turning to the Governor-General's Speech, my main concern is not so much what was in it but that which was not in it. Subjects of great moment were either not mentioned or glossed over with a lot of pious platitudes. Of course His Excellency cannot be blamed for this. He was only propounding the advice of his Ministers. The blame must lie fairly and squarely on the shoulders of the Government. Government supporters, both personally and collectively, are the guilty men. 
Not one word was in the GovernorGeneral's Speech of any planning for clean living and not one word was there in regard to the problem of water and air pollution. Running through the Banks electorate, there is, or was, a beautiful river - the Georges River. It was a beautiful river until 1962 when tests showed that bacterial pollution rendered it unsatisfactory for swimming. It was even too polluted for fish to live in it. The causes are well known: Contamination by sewerage and pollution by industrial wastes. It is not too late to act but the Commonwealth Government must play its part. 
Let us look at some of the causes of this pollution. I mention first Bankstown Aerodrome, which is Commonwealth property. This is a large airport and an industrial complex built on land owned by the Commonwealth. Hawker De Havilland Australia Pty Ltd is one the many industries established in this area and on this site. A sewer is available for the whole of this area but the Commonwealth chooses not to connect the Bankstown aerodrome area to the sewer line. Instead, it is still utilising a wholly inadequate septic tank system which was installed by the Americans during the 1939- 1945 war. Not only is it inadequate but also it is wholly inefficient. Believe it or not, this inefficient septic system is allowed to drain into the Georges River. All that is required is the connection of the available sewer line to prevent one of the causes of pollution. The same sewerage position applies to other Commonwealth instrumentalities in the area including the East Hills Migrant Camp and the Holsworthy Military Camp. 
The Government has a grave responsibility to put its own house in order. The 
Commonwealth has a prime obligation to assist in overcoming the whole problem of pollution. It is of no use for the Government to put its head in the sand with the excuse that pollution is a State responsibility. The States have not the finance to tackle this problem. The Commonwealth Government could well take a lead from the Nixon Government in the United States of America, which is providing $8,929m during the next 5 years to construct waste treatment plants and to provide sewerage. The time for talking about the horrors of pollution has passed. The time for action is now. 
As a first step, the very least that the Government should do in the national interest is to set up a permanent research Organisation, on similar lines to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization to deal with the investigation into the methods of disposal of solid, liquid and gaseous wastes. Information gathered by this research organisation might be made readily available then to all bodies which have to deal with this problem. It is also a vital necessity for the Commonwealth Government to assist the States financially for the specific purpose of providing additional sewerage installations. In the Banks electorate alone are tens of thousands of unsewered homes. I have been living there for 20 years and I still have not a sewer available. Heaven knows, this is not a luxury; it is a basic necessity. 
This Government has failed also to acknowledge the fact that it has any financial responsibility to assist local government. The well is running dry. Ratepayers have reached the end of their financial road. Local government has had to take on many additional responsibilities including such things as day nursery facilities, pre-school1 kindergartens, public libraries, senior citizen centres, youth centres and the like are universally accepted now as being within the province of local government. What is needed is a direct financial contribution to local government authorities, not by way of loan moneys but by a direct share of the overall growth revenue of this country on a similar basis to the tax grants to the various State governments. 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission was set up originally to advise the Commonwealth on the fairest way to help the smaller States to provide services and opportunities equivalent to those of the larger States. This Commission now has to worry only about the smallest State, Tasmania. It is nearly at a loose end. The experience of this Commission should be utilised in assessing and recommending direct capital grants to local government authorities. The Commonwealth does not pay even council rates in respect of land that it owns. But it does not stop at having the temerity to utilise the services which are paid for by the rate paying public. I could use a word to describe this attitude, but I am afraid that it would be classed as unparliamentary. 
A typical example of the vagueness and offhandedness of this Government is the following extract from the GovernorGeneral's Speech: 
The progressive income tax scale and other aspects of the taxation system which affect particularly the lower and middle income earners are being closely studied to enable fulfilment of my Government's aim to put before Parliament specific provisions for relief in the next Budget 
Let us have a close look at this problem. Let us look at the grossly inequitable share of the tax burden which is borne by this section of the tax-paying population. The following information is taken from the published reports of the Commissioner of Taxation. The latest public break-up of statistics is that for the income year ended 30th June 1967. In that year, the total income tax assessed to individuals was $1,834,000 in round figures. There were 784,000 taxpayers earning between $4,000 and $10,000 per year, out of a total number of individual taxpayers of 4,900.000- odd. In other words, this middle income group comprised 16% of the total number of taxpayers. Looking at the taxation figures, we find that this 16% paid 37% of the total tax levied. When the latest figures become available we will find that the present position for this overtaxed section of the community is even worse. 
This is a shameful situation. Government members have every reason to hang their heads in shame. They have let this situation develop over the period of the last 20 years without doing the slightest thing about it. 
It was only when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  bought this matter into the light of day that the present Government, at long last, decided to have a look at it. What is the Government doing about it today? To quote the Governor-General's Speech: 'The matter is being closely studied'. Just how long does the Government need to do something in this matter. It has certainly done nothing since 1955 when the taxation scales were last reviewed. What has happened in the intervening period? We have seen a state of galloping inflation with gradual wage increases. Who has gained from this? It is Government revenue, of course. 
Let me now particularise the position as it affects the individual taxpayer. By way of illustration, I take the case of an average lower and middle income earner and contrast the income tax paid by him in 1955, which was the last year when tax scales were varied, with his position in 1969, the present position. These figures are factual and are not something that I have dreamed up. Firstly, a junior accountant in a bank received $2,650 per annum in 1955. He paid $360 tax, or 13% of his income. In 1969, in the same position of junior accountant, the salary was $4,950 per year, due solely to the inflationary spiral. The tax payable was $1,120, or 22% of his income. This is an increase from 13% to 22%. 
The salary of a junior manager in a bank in 1955 was $3,250. His tax was $520 or 16% of his income. In 1969, with the same inflationary spiral, the salary for the same position of junior manager was $6,050 per year. He pays SI, 565 in tax, 25% of his income, an increase in taxation from 16% to 25%. The tax position has started to get even worse. The salary of a manager of a bank in 1955 was 53,700 a year. He paid S656 in tax or 17% of his income. In 1969 because of the same inflationary spiral the salary for the same position was $6,950. He pays $1,960 in tax or 28% of his income, an increase in tax from 17% to 28%. lt gets even better. A junior inspector in a bank in 1955 received a salary of $4,200 a year. He paid S823 in tax or 19% of his income. In 1969 the salary for the same position - the inflationary spiral again - was S7.800 a year and the tax payable was $2,357 or 30% of his income. Up it jumps from 19% to 30%. Is it any wonder that Government supporters opposite are hanging their heads in shame, or should be? 
The illustrations that I have just given are indicative of the situation in other fields of employment - schoolteachers, public servants, the lot. All have been affected by this spiralling tax burden, even the basic wage earner. In 1955 he paid 6% of his income in tax and up it jumps in 1969 to 11%. Something needs to be done to relieve this crushing burden and it needs to be done now. Let the Government bring down a supplementary Budget and not wait until after the end of this financial year. The need is urgent. At the same time, why is there not some relief in the way of allowable tax deductions? Why is a deduction not allowable for fares to and from work? The cost of fares is now a big item in the ordinary person's budget, even more so when the shortage of land and its high cost in areas close to the city forces the average person to live further away from his place of employment. All that is required is a specific provision in the Income Tax Act to allow the deduction. And what is the attitude of the Government? The former Treasurer, the honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  in a letter dated 17th November 1969 - as late as that - to the Taxpayers Association, following representations by that body, said: 
The Government did not see fit to introduce the amending legislation required. 
One of the reasons he give for not doing it was: 
It would subsidise the expenditure of persons who choose to live considerable distances from their employment and use expensive means of transport. 
How unrealistic can one get? The honourable member for Lowe chooses to live about 5 miles from Sydney. I wish he would give the same choice to the people who are financially forced to live as far out as East Hills, Blacktown, Campbelltown and Gosford and have to travel to Sydney every day for their work. 
I hope that the present Treasurer, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr 
Bury), will be a little more sympathetic. Why is the taxation deduction for student children only allowable whilst the child is under the age of 21 years? Surely this is an unrealistic provision when a child, under our more advanced secondary school system, stays at school until 18 or 19 years of age before going to university. Even if undertaking only a 3-year university course graduation would not normally take place before the age of 22 or 23 years. If the Government was the least bit sincere in its stated desire to encourage home ownership one would think that it would allow a taxation deduction for interest paid on housing loans. This type of deduction is allowable in the United Kingdom. It was introduced by legislation many years ago. If council and water rates in respect of private residences are an allowalble deduction, why not interest on housing loans? 
Surely the meanest provision is the limitation of the deduction for funeral expenses to an amount of $100. Apparently the Treasurers we have had over the past 20 years have never had to foot the bill for the funeral of a dependant. I can well remember the words of one of my constituents who had just buried a young son. He said: 
I never realised that it cost so much to die. 
And one cannot even claim a deduction for the funeral expenses of a mother or father who was in receipt of an age pension. It is my considered opinion that we have reached a low ebb in our social consciousness when this type of situation is allowed to exist. 
I would like to draw a contrast between the attitude of the Government in these matters with its attitude towards legalised tax evasion. It is a fundamental principle of equitable taxation that the contribution of each individual to the State should be equated to his ability to pay. This principle was first enunciated by Adam Smith centuries ago. Few would deny that the real burden of taxation now falls much more severely on the person who can least afford to pay it. This Government has shown a complete inertia against changes in the taxation laws. There are so many loopholes in our revenue laws that the Income Tax Act could conceivably be described as a horse and buggy Act in a jet age economy. Skilled legal advisers and accountants can drive a horse and cart through the loopholes that exist in it. It is a sorry state of affairs when even the senior members of the Taxation Branch administration are frustrated to such a degree that they publicly describe it for what it is, a social evil. This statement was made by the Second Commissioner of Taxation,  Mr P.  J. Lanigan, in a paper he delivered at the conference of the Taxation Institute of Australia in Canberra in May 1969. 
Why does not the Government take immediate action to close up the loopholes which are only available to those with wealth who can afford the cost of expert advice, or is it only interested in slugging the little man who has neither money nor influence in the right quarter? There are hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue being legally evaded by such devices as dividend stripping techniques, acquisition of loss companies, formation of companies on Norfolk Island or the provision of the shelter of public company status to a private company. There are so many other devices being used that they are too numerous to mention. If the Treasurer is not aware of this legalised tax evasion and really wants to know all about these devices then I suggest that he call for a report from the Commissioner of Taxation. I am certain that this very respected and capable gentleman would be most happy to acquaint him of the facts. 
This Government has also failed to face up to its responsibilities in the area of the taxability of capital gains. It should be quite clear by now that the taxation of capital gains is essential to block any loopholes effectively. Those who make substantial capital gains in the stock market, in real estate or in other areas increase their ability to spend money just as much as those who earn wages or derive an income from the carrying on of a business. Exemptions could be permitted for profits made on sales of taxpayers' homes and for articles of personal property. If capital gains were included in taxable income, the portion of the total income of the wealthy that is subject to tax would be dramatically increased. This would distribute the tax load much more fairly than it is being distributed today. The Treasurer could counter with the statement that the existing provisions of section 26a of the Income Tax Act are adequate. In fact, in answer to a question on the taxability of share sales put to him by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  on 10th March this year in regard to this vexed question he said: 
It has in practice caused very few of the difficulties which theoretically have been raised by members of the public and the Press. 
How wrong he is. I can assure the Treasurer that he has never been further from the facts. Prior to being elected to this Parliament I was employed in the Taxation Branch in the technical field for some 28 years. He tells us that it is not difficult to establish with certainty what was in the mind of a person when he acquired shares or other property. He is completely at variance with the experience of the officers of his own Department. There is only one answer and that is to follow the recent example of our sister country, Canada, and impose a progressive capital gains tax. This Government should take the uncertainty out of this vexed question. Even the 'Australian Financial Review' is an advocate of a capital gains tax. 
This Government is again on trial. At the last general election the Government was charged with mismanagement and incompetence. It was acquitted, not because it was not guilty but because it had a stacked jury. The votes of the jury, the electors, were not of equal value. It was elected with a minority of votes. Taking as a criterion the programme of the Government's future activity, as enunciated in the Governor-General's Speech, and the Government's performance in this House since I have been here, the decision of the jury at its next trial, stacked or not, will be guilty and the Government will be banished to the Opposition benches. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Dr  J.  P. Cairns' amendment)  be  »o  added. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. It follows on a question asked yesterday by the honourable member for Sturt and the reply given to him by the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is it a fact that waterside workers were recently granted 4 weeks annual leave and that it was granted, I emphasise, with the agreement of the employers? Does the Prime Minister agree with the statement made yesterday by the Minister for Labour and National Service that Commonwealth public servants are less deserving of this leave than are waterside workers? Does he agree that the employers of waterside workers are more enlightened employers than this Government? Will he follow the lead of other enlightened employers and immediately grant 4 weeks annual leave to Commonwealth public servants? 
I had intended to speak on this Bill earlier but unfortunately for me the Government saw fit to apply the gag. Consequently I am somewhat restricted in now speaking on the legislation. I refer to clause 14. of the Bill. For the information of honourable members, and particularly Government supporters - the few who are here - I will read part of the clause. It reads: 
After section 26 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: - 26a - (1.) Where a notice of the withdrawal of the approval of a credit union for the purposes of this Act has been served on the credit union - 
I suggest that the proposed new section is unnecessary. Adequate notice of their withdrawal was served on credit unions by the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  who said in his second reading speech on 5th March last:  lt is appreciated that very few, if any. credit unions are as yet in a position to meet these conditions. 
The proposed new section is superfluous because notice has already been served on the credit unions in the second reading speech. I have had the opportunity tonight to look at the principal Act. I looked at section 26 to which this Bill will add new section 26a. I see here - lo my sorrow do I see it - that another penal clause is added. Another penalty is imposed on the credit unions - those few, if any, as stated by the Minister for the Navy who might be eligible under this legislation. The penalty is the amount of §500. 
There are 3 acceptable forms of savings only. Firstly, there are the saving banks; secondly, the permanent building societies; and, thirdly, the credit union movement, which is supposed to be included in this legislation as an acceptable form of savings. But it is not. I see no mention in the Bill before us tonight of any penal clause being inserted in respect of the savings banks. I see no penal clause being inserted in respect of the permanent building societies. But, to my sorrow. I see a penal clause inserted in respect of the credit union movement. This, I think, gives honourable members on this side of the Committee an indication of the intention of the Government and its lack of sincerity in this whole issue. 
When we get down to the crux of the matter, we find that the Government is not sincere. The Government has no intention - and it never has been the intention of the Government - to assist the credit union movement. It is an accepted fact that the credit union movement in Australia is just on the way up. If honourable members go back through the history of the countries on the other side of the world - particularly the history of America - and see the extent to which the credit union movement has grown, they will see the reason why the Government and those v/ho support the Government do not want the credit union movement to grow in Australia. The real reason for these provisions is that the Government is paying lip service to, and was not sincere in. its suggestions that it would bring the credit unions into the operations of the scheme. The Government really does not want credit unions to flourish. What is the reason for this attitude? The reason is that if credit unions flourish they will be a threat to the other financial institutions which this Government serves. That is the real reason for the attitude of the Government. 
The Government has no intention of helping credit unions. It had not in the past and, 1 would suggest, will not in the future. The main concern of the Government is that the credit union movement is a threat to the fringe banking institutions. That is the real reason. I am sorry to say that, as an active credit unionist myself, I am more than disappointed with the Government on this issue. As an active credit unionist, I would have thought that the Government, realising the benefit of credit unions to our community, would have gone out of its way to assist the credit union movement. The Government has done not one thing to assist. In fact, the Government has put every obstacle in the way of the credit union movement, even clause 14 which is a penal clause. I was going to say,  Mr Chairman,  that this is the height of pious hypocrisy, but I do not know whether that is an acceptable parliamentary phrase. It is pious hypocrisy to come out and to mouth these platitudes about assistance to the credit union movement. The Government had no intention of assisting credit unions and I suggest that it will give no assistance in the future. 
It is still a paltry amount. We will jump up the scale a little further. At $50,000 the duty payable under the present legislation is $2,104. The duty payable under the proposed legislation would be $1,053, making a reduction of $1,051. Is that going to help to stop the break-up of a holding? Let us go even higher and take an estate of $150,000. The duty payable under the present legislation is $25,500. The duty payable under this measure would be $17,773, a net reduction of $7,727. It would hardly buy a tractor. The same situation applies right down the scale. For the benefit of honourable members present - there are not a great many Country Party members present - I would like to read the comments of the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon),  as he now is, and who previously was the Treasurer. In a speech which he made in this House in September 1969 he said: 
The purpose of the proposed reliefs is to provide assistance to discourage the breaking up of economic rural holdings, particularly family holdings, because of the need to pay estate duty. 
Will the remission, if the Government likes to call it that, of an amount of $3,765 on an estate of $90,000 prevent the breaking up of a holding? Of course it will not. It is pious humbug to say it will. What I would like to ask is whether the relief now being provided will help to prevent the break up of farms. I would like these questions to be answered by honourable members opposite. Of course it will not. It is only a political stunt. This measure does not do what it claims to do; in fact it might well have the opposite effect. 
Getting down to the Bill, there are 2 criteria for the application of the rebate provisions to primary producers. There is an assets eligibility test and an income eligibility test. I would like to ask the Treasurer at some stage in this debate to explain to me and other honourable members on this side of the House why in the definitions clause the terms 'gross income', gross farm income' and 'gross value' are used? Why are these not 'net'? I suggest that if we have a real look at this legislation we will see that it does not have the benefits for the genuine and bona fide primary producer that it claims to have. It could well have a far greater benefit for what is commonly called the Collins Street farmer or the Pitt Street farmer. I would like some information on these facets of this legislation. 
It is quite a complicated piece of legislation and a lot of questions can still be asked about it, particularly by honourable members on this side of the House. I cannot for the life of me see, if my thoughts on this matter are correct, why this measure should be of assistance to the Pitt Street farmer or Collins Street farmer - in other words, the non-bona fide farmer. The Pitt Street farmer is not the traditional farmer. In fact people in this group have affected the bona fide farmers. They have bought farming properties for one reason and one reason alone. It was not to help the primary producer of this country or to increase primary production. They bought in for one reason and one reason alone and that is to get income tax benefits. This group is also responsible to a large measure for the parlous position of primary production today. In wheat production they have reached the stage where they are gradually killing off the traditional farmer who has had his quotas cut because of the incursions of this type of person in the fields of primary production. They have also affected the benefits that could be derived by the primary producer from the estate duty measure which is now before the House. They have built up the value of land to a false value so that they can get their income tax benefits. They have paid prices well above the real value of the farm and this has had the effect of building up the value of all farms in the vicinity on a notional value only and not on the real value. This has affected the bona fide primary producer because it has built up the alleged value of his estate for State stamp duty and Federal estate duty on death. 
The non-bona fide farmer is of no benefit to the farming community. Values of rural properties in the last 5 years have increased by more . than 90% and in no small measure I think the blame can be fairly laid at the feet of the nontraditional farmer who has bought in and forced up land values. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  stated that the con cessions being provided by this measure are for bona fide producers. But are they? I would like honourable members opposite to examine their consciences, do a little homework on this measure and determine how the bona fide farmer is benefiting. If they do they may well come to another conclusion. This measure does not give real assistance to those who need it most, those for whom the former Treasurer stated this legislation was being introduced. The whole Estate Duty Act should be altered. There should be a complete restructuring of the whole Act and the effect it has on primary producers and other sections of the community. As a matter of fact the Australian Farmers Federation is inclined to agree with the statements that I have made today, even though its secretary was not commenting on the same subject. The Melbourne 'Herald' of 8th April this year reported: 
The Secretary of the Australian Farmers Federation,  Mr A.  S. Norquay, today defended income tax concessions for primary producers on the eve of a 2 day meeting in Canberra. 
The report continued: 

 Mr Norquay said today that income tax concessions for primary producers were never intended to reduce or avoid income tax by prosperous business or professional men. Farmer organisations were anxious to remove any element of abuse. 
I suggest that honourable members opposite, particularly those from the Country Party, should take note of that comment and attempt to get the Government to eliminate the possibilities of abuse arising from this Act, especially as they benefit the non-bona fide farmer. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that many income tax avoidance schemes are being carried out, particularly by large and wealthy companies and their shareholders? Is it a fact also that I drew the attention of the Treasurer to some of these income tax avoidance schemes in a speech in this House on 18th March 1970? Will the Treasurer take urgent action to bring down amending legislation to prevent this legalised tax avoidance and share the tax burden in a more equitable manner than is the case now? 
I have listened with interest to the contributions by Government supporters. They are still peddling the old line that the Public Service Board is not influenced by the Government. Are we expected to accept this claim? Surely nobody on the Government side would be so naive as to believe that the Public Service Board is not influenced by the Government. Let there be no mistake about this: The Public Service Board is an instrument of Government policy. The Board itself is fully aware of its position and it carries out Government policy. The Government pursues its policy through its agent, the Public Service Board, lt has been the consistent policy of this Government and its predecessors to depress Public Service salaries and leave conditions, particularly salaries in the lower and middle income ranges. The Gorton Government is still pursuing this policy. 
Let me firstly argue why 4 weeks annual leave should be granted to Commonwealth public servants. The annual leave provision of 3 weeks in the Commonwealth Public Service has operated for the last 68 years. In that time we have moved forward not one inch. What is the situation with regard to productivity in the Commonwealth Public Service? Productivity is usually one of the bases for improving conditions. It may be said that it is difficult to measure productivity within the Public Service. I propose to give a few statistics to show that productivity has increased to quite a large extent in recent years. I refer to the PostmasterGeneral's Department, which is responsible for the employment of a large percentage of the Public Service. In J 958- 59 business in the Department increased by 9%; staff increased by only 1.5%. In 1959-60 business increased by 6.5%; staff increased by 1.5%. In 1960-61 business increased by 4.8%; staff increased by 0.7%. Between 1961 and 1967 the number of postal articles handled annually by the Department increased by 32% from 2,048 million to 2,683 million. The number of telephone calls registered each year increased by 36% from 1,700 million to 2,313 million. In the same period the full time staff of the Department increased by only 15% from 86,559 to 98,886. Could any honourable member opposite honestly claim that productivity in the Public Service has not increased? 
In handing down its judgment in the 1963 metal trades case the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission said: 
We consider it would be fair to increase margins under this award by 10%. We have reached this conclusion in the knowledge that today employees under this award have been awarded an extra week's annual leave. 
The clear implication of those remarks is thai increases greater than 10% would have been awarded had increased leisure not been provided at that time. Public servants received only the 10% increase in wages. They received no increase in their annual leave entitlement. Let me answer one of the arguments consistently advanced by this Government and its predecessors. They have regularly said that substantial increases in staff would be necessary if annual leave was increased. There are no mobile relief staffs provided for the great majority of Commonwealth Public Service work situations. The duties of the absent officer, whether he be on annual leave or sick leave, are carried out, partly or wholly, by other staff within his section. In 1965 in rejecting a claim for 4 weeks annual leave  Sir Robert  Menzies said: 
An additional 5.800 workers would be needed. 
The claim has been repeated by his successors, but it is a fallacious argument. In 1964 annual leave in the New South Wales Public Service was increased from 3 weeks to 4 weeks and the increase in staff in 1965, the first year in which 4 weeks annual leave was granted, was less than it had been in the preceding 2 years I submit that that fact knocks out the Government's argument. 
What are the annual leave conditions in some of the countries with which we normally compare ourselves? I mention first the United Stales of America. In 1949, 61% of all employees in the United Stales received 2 weeks leave. In 1952, 48% received 2 weeks leave and 46% received 3 weeks leave. In 1957, 64% received 3 weeks leave and 20% received 4 weeks leave and over. In 1961. 49% received 3 weeks leave and 43% received 4 weeks leave and over. In 1966, 60% received 4 weeks leave while 13% received 5 weeks leave. Workers in Norway have received 4 weeks leave since 1964 - and we are supposed to be called a progressive country. In Sweden 4 weeks leave applies generally in industry. Public servants receive from 24 days leave for a 6-day week to 40 days leave, depending on age and their service grading. 
In West Germany public servants receive 3 weeks leave with a minimum of 4 weeks leave for all employees over 30 years of age. In addition, 4 weeks leave is provided in many outside agreements other than those relating to the public service. In Holland public servants receive additional leave entitlements, depending on their age, of up to 4 days over the minimum provision of 3 weeks. In addition to that, public servants receive also an extra 2 weeks pay per year as holiday allowance. In the United Kingdom civil servants receive leave entitlements ranging from 3 weeks to 6 weeks according to their status and length of service. The Government should hang its head in shame. Our Commonwealth public servants receive 3 weeks leave and do not look like getting any more leave while this Government is in office. 
Let us look to see who is the real architect of the decision of the Government not to grant 4 weeks annual leave to Commonwealth public servants. I go back to 12th October 1966 when the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  asked a question of the then Prime Minister,  Mr Harold  Holt, concerning 4 weeks annual leave for Commonwealth public servants. This is the reply that he received from  Mr Holt: 
There should be no ambiguity about our position, but I shall see that a copy of the Government's official statement on this matter is made available to the honourable gentleman.  (Extension of time granted) 
I thank the House. The then Prime Minister,  Mr Holt,  went on to say in reply to the question from the honourable member for Macquarie: 
Some time ago I received a deputation of representatives of the Public Service organisations and I undertook to bring the views of that deputation, which was pressing for  4  weeks annual leave for Commonwealth public servants, to the Cabinet. 
I ask honourable members to note these words from  Mr Holt: 
A Cabinet submission has been prepared which goes fully into this matter. I should expect it to be considered shortly and a decision to be reached for announcement before the Parliament rises. 
What happened the following night in the Senate? The Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate at that time was the present Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  He was then  Senator Gorton.  The debate in the Senate at that time was on the Public Service Bill 1966.  Senator Gorton  said this: 
The second proposal by the Opposition- 
He was referring there to an amendment that had been foreshadowed to grant 4 weeks annual leave to Commonwealth public servants -  is that the Government should provide  4  weeks annual recreation leave instead of 3 weeks for Commonwealth public servants.  Senator Willesee  quite accurately forecast that 1  would have something to say about the cost that such a change would impose on the Australian economy. 
This is the present Prime Minister speaking. 
He continues: 
If an extra week's leave were granted each year to the total number of Commonwealth employees, an additional 5,800 workers would be required in the Commonwealth Public Service. Of course, the annual wage and salary bill would rise by about ?9m. 
He goes on to say: 1 
It seemed to me that he was saying- 

 Senator Gorton was referring to  Senator Willesee  ;  with some justice, that in a particular office at a particular time a man could go away for a week and it would not be necessary to replace him, but the inference to be drawn from the extension of that argument is that this could happen throughout the whole of the Public Service. 
He carried on to say that the Government had no intention of giving it. 
What happened in actual fact was that the then Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Gorton,  beat the gun. That was on 13th October 1966, before any decision had been made by the Cabinet. 
I am quoting from Hansard. Five days later, apparently after Cabinet had decided the issue and after  Senator Gorton  had jumped the gun, the then Prime Minister,  Mr Harold  Holt, refused this request. What I am saying is that the real architect of the decision not te give 4 weeks annual leave to Commonwealth public servants is the present Prime Minister, the right honourable John Grey Gorton. 
To bring what he has said up to date - I hope that Commonwealth public servants take note of these remarks - I wish to quote what the Prime Minister said in reply to a question from me as recently as 9th April of this year. Part of my question to the Prime Minister was: 
Will he follow the lead of other enlightened employers and immediately grant 4 weeks annual leave to Commonwealth public servants? 
The Prime Minister did not say no bluntly, but he covered his reply by a few words of paraphrase. He said: 
 I do agree with what the Minister for Labour and National Service said yesterday, which was that the question of 4 weeks leave for Commonwealth public servants had been carefully examined by the Government and had been discussed with representatives of the various unions but on the grounds of the cost to the community generally and on other grounds in relation to shift work, which the Minister mentioned, the Government decided not to grant this leave. 
I put this point to the House: Commonwealth public servants have never had the chance of getting 4 weeks annual leave from previous governments of the same political colour as this one. They have no chance of getting 4 weeks annual leave from this Government. Is it any wonder that Commonwealth public servants are so bitter on this subject? 

 - Mr Chairman, I rise as an active credit unionist to express my disgust at the stages through which this Bill has gone before being returned to this Committee. Let us trace the history of the Bill and the clause that is now under consideration. The Bill was introduced into the Parliament and, at the second reading stage and during the Committee stages, the Opposition moved certain amendments including amendments to the clause which is now under discussion. The amendments were defeated by the Government by sheer weight of numbers. 
No consideration at all was given by the Government to the honest and sincere suggestions which were put forward by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and other speakers on this side. No real consideration was given by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  and the Government to the sincere and practical suggestions which were put forward by representatives of the credit union movement. The Government could have accepted in part at least those amendments that were suggested before the Homes Savings Grant Bill was transmitted to the other place. 
Let us look at the situation when the Bill reached the other place. A situation exists there in which 4 senators representing another Party than those represented in this Committee occupy a position of power because of the numbers of the various parties there. These members are in a position of power because they happen to hold the balance of power in the other place. During the second reading debate on this Bill there, the spokesman for that Party - which is the Australian Democratic Labor Party - had this to say in relation to the clause under consideration. I quote the words of  Senator Little: 
But the part of the legislation in which I feet the Government has failed to do what it set out to do is in relation to the eligibility of credit unions for people who wish to save the amount of money prescribed to be necessary to qualify them for a homes savings grant. 
I propose to show the sheer hypocrisy of the arguments advanced by the members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 

 Senator Little continued: 
I believe that the Government has set out to do something very worthwhile. The credit unions are entitled to this because . they have operated in this field and in the more minor fields of housing which are as necessary as the building of the house itself, that is, the equipping and furnishing of the house. 
I invite honourable members to listen to this pious hypocrisy.  Senator Little  continues: 
Heavens above, nobody would expect anybody to live in just a house. The equipment that is inside the house is surely just as necessary to make a home as is the building itself. 
He said further: 
My criticism is that the legislation does not do what it set out to do, that is, to make credit unions attractive for young people to continue saving with for the purpose of getting a homes savings grant because it is obvious that only 1 - perhaps none - of the credit unions can meet the requirements of the legislation. 

 Senator Little suggested ; I will generalise on his remarks and will not quote them directly ; the 3 improvements which had been suggested by the credit union movement. But his party did not move an amendment in the other place along the lines of those suggested improvements. 
What happened was that the credit union movement - and rightly so - made representations to all parties. It made representations to the Australian Labor Party - the Opposition here and in the other place - to the 
Government and to the Australian Democratic Labor Parry which is represented only in the other place. The Australian Labor Party took note of its representations and moved an amendment in the other place to comply with what the desires of the credit union movement were. The amendment fitted in with the expressed views of  Senator Little  in his speech during the second reading debate. 
I come now to what happened after that amendment was moved. I quote from page 1215 of Hansard of 7th May 1970.  Senator Little  said: 
I am vers' much aware that whatever remarks I make at this stage must be associated with an amendment that was most surprisingly moved after 1 spoke on the Rill itself . . . 
He continued: 
We initiated all of the ideas that are now contained in the amendment that is before the Senate as to the necessity for compromise particularly on the question of the stringent conditions applied to the credit unions. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party did not initiate those ideas. The ideas were initiated by the credit union movement itself in representations to the 3 parties concerned.  Senator Little  continued, after indicating why members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party would not support the amendment, by saying this about  Senator Poke  who moved the amendment on behalf of the Opposition in the Senate: 
He has stolen my ideas. 
What greater rank hypocrisy could you get  Mr Chairman?  It is just like the little boy who took his bat home- 
Firstly I want to commend the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wen I  worth) for bringing down a Bill of this nature and for his interest in handicapped children, lt is very pleasing to  me  to find, possibly for the first time since I have been following the affairs of this Parliament, a Minister who has displayed interest in this field. I commend him for his interest. Insufficient attention has been given in the past to handicapped children. I agree with the Minister when he said in his second reading speech:  lt is clear enough  that  there is still much to be done. There arc, wc estimate, some 50,000 handicapped children under 16 years of age in Australia, including both those who have some physical handicap and tho-e who are menially retarded. 
Probably under half of these are adequately catered for by special facilities. 
I draw attention to the word 'probably'. If the Minister had the facilities available to ascertain the degree of inadequate catering in this field and if he knew the number of children involved  think he would be surprised. 
The deficiency of this Bill, as I see it, is that the benefits are restricted to capital assistance for the training - and training alone - of various types of handicapped children. A handicapped child is defined in the Bill as a person suffering from a physical or mental disability. Training, as defined in the Bill, means vocational or other training and includes general education. I ask the Minister to explain how the word training' is to be interpreted in app s ing the provisions of this Bill. Does it cater for the severely mentally retarded chi d? Will organisations which look after severely mentally retarded children benefit from this legislation? What is the position in regard to mongoloid children who are incapable of receiving vocational and educational training? Are organisations which took after these severely handicapped children to be denied the benefits of this Bill? 
I consider that the definition of 'training' is too narrow. It is capable of restricted interpretation at the administrative level. Clause 5 of the Bill states: 
The Director-General has, subject to any directions of the Minister, the general administration of this Act.  lt refers to the Director-General of Social Services. I ask the Minister to give some lead to this House or to the DirectorGeneral as to how this clause is to be interpreted. 1 have a reason for that request. 1 think there are deficiencies in the National Health Act. One of those deficiencies which 1 think is applicable lo handicapped children is too restrictive an interpretation at the administrative level. I recognise that the National Health Act is administered by the Commonwealth Department of Health and that this Bi'l is to be administered by the Director-General of Social Services. The point I make is this: Under the National Health Act there is paid what is known as a supplementary benefit. Approved nursing homes, including nursing homes which look after handicapped children, are paid $2 a day in respect of each patient. There is an additional SUPplementary benefit of $3 a day paid where ti.e child receives what is known as intensive care. At the administrative level of the Commonwealth Director-General of Health intensive care has been interpreted to mean intensive medical care. I had a case relating to this from the Intellectually and Physically Handicapped Childrens Association of New South Wales. I led a deputation concerning the interpretation placed on the phrase 'intensive care'. I was told by the authorities in Sydney that it was interpreted to mean 'medical care' and not 'custodial care'. 
I wish to give an example of this to illustrate the point. Mongoloid children, particularly the severely affected mongoloid child, not only need to be looked after on a custodial basis but also to be cared for with a lot more patience and a good deal more tolerance than. the child who is physically handicapped. It has been held administratively that, unless a child is ill - physically ill - it is denied the benefit of $3 per day on the basis that it is not receiving intensive care. I feel that this is a restrictive interpretation. I would not like to think that, when this Bill now before the House is finally passed, too restrictive an interpretation would be given by the DirectorGeneral of Social Services on that point. That is my reason for raising it. 
I wish to pay tribute to the organisations that have played a large part up to date, unassisted in New South Wales by any State Government grants, and which for the first time will1 be assisted partially in their work by a grant from the Commonwealth Government. I refer particularly to the Intellectually and Physically Handicapped Children's Association of New South Wales which has done a magnificent job in this field. This Association started in 1960. It commenced when a few people who had severely mentally retarded and physically retarded children got together and decided that they would have to do something about the problem because the facilities did not exist. Facilities were not provided by the Commonwealth or the State and the task was left to them. I commend these people for starting this Association. I commend them for the work that they have done since 1960. At the present time, only 50 people are members of this Association. They have raised some hundreds of thousands of dollars to perform a vital, important and necessary task in the community, that is, caring for severely mentally retarded and severely physically retarded children. 
This Association is the only association in New South Wales which looks after and cares for the multiple hand:capped child. That is the child who is both crippled and mentally retarded. The Association has set out to equip itself to take the worst type - I do not use 'worst' in a derogatory sense. Perhaps 1 should refer to the worst affected metally and physically retarded children. The main object pf the Association is to take the worst first. They have set up 2 centres in the Sydney area; one is at Revesby called the Amour Park Centre and the other is at Liverpool and is known, as the Hoxton Park Centre. This Association started these centres in 1962 to cater for these types of affected children. It started off in a small way, erecting and equipping a building at Revesby at a cost of some $14,000. In 1964, due to its efforts, the Association extended the building at a cost of some $100,000. Between 1964 and the present time it has continued to extend its facilities. Renovations and extensions to the building to bring it to a stage where it is now a 80-bed hospital have cost an additional amount of $35,000. That amount is additional to what was spent on the original project. 
The purpose of the Amour Park centre is to look after the child who is not capable of being educated. To cater for the child who is capable of being educated, the Intellectually and Physically Handicapped Children's Associationon of New South Wales started in 1964 to erect a building - this is now known as the Hoxton Park Centre - at a cost of $52,000. That school for physically and mentally retarded children at the present time has an enrolment of 91. It is running as a full time school each day without cost to the State and without cost to the Commonwealth. 
Allow me to point out some of the costs which have been borne by this Association and by the parents of these children at the Amour Park Centre. The cost per child is S50 per week to which at the present, time the Commonwealth contributes the ordinary' benefit, as it is called through the Commonwealth Department of Health of S2 per day. Provided a child is entitled to receive a supplementary benefit-this has been given a very restrictive application at the administrative level - a further $3 per day is paid. That leaves $15 per day for the parents of each child to find, lt is in this regard that 1 feel the Bill falls down. 
This Bill covers only the training of the child and the cost of cap' lal improvements. lt does not do anything to assist the parents. I commend to the Minister for Social Services this suggestion which he may bring forward before the Government when the next Budget is being formulated. Does he not think that the stage has been reached when we must consider not only the child but also the parents? I feel that consideration should be given to paying to (he parents of these severely mentally retarded and physically handicapped children some type of financial assistance simitar to the invalid pension, lt should be a figure which is capable of assist-ng the parents in the every day running costs of keeping such a child at a home such as those that I have mentioned and assisting them also to meet the incidental costs that crop up but about which nobody knows. 
 I feel that the parents of these children are bearing a big enough burden, lt is a mental burden to them when a child is born to them who, unfortunately, is physically or mentally retarded. This burden is big enough without having to face a financial burden as well. I request the Minister to give consideration to this proposal when the Budget is under consideration and to see whether or not some assistance could be given to parents of these children. In conclusion 1 wish to commend again the Minister for Social Services for his attention to these matters. I am certain that the matters that I have mentioned will receive his sympathetic consideration. 
  Mr WALLIS  (Grey) 1.1 1.201-1 do nol intend to occupy the time of the House for very long. In reference to this Bill I was approached by the Mentally Retarded Children's Society of South Australia. Whilst this organisation considers that the Bill is an advance for handicapped children, it has its reservations on. 2 matters. The first matter with which it is concerned is the differentiation being made in . the Bill between the States which provide free education for all children and those where education is provided by subsidised voluntary organisations. To explain this more fully, the Society has sent to me a copy of a letter forwarded to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  from the Australian Council for the Mentally Retarded. That letter reads: 
In regard to the new Bill, may we request you to give further consideration to one aspect of ils provisions which, we feel, may not be as equitable as you would wish. We refer to the exclusion of Slate education departments from the benefits of the Act as defined in section  6  of Pail  1. 
The Commonweatlh Government has heretofore declined to grant assistance in this direction on the grounds that education is the responsibility of the State governments. The various Stale governments have afforded assistance in a variety of forms. In South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania  the  education departments have accepted the responsibility to provide free education for all children. The other States have provided financial assistance to enable parents and health departments lo co-operate in providing 'training centres' and more recently, to enable parents to provide schools staffed by education department teachers. This assistance is belter than nothing at all, but falls far short of the standard set by the first named stales which provide properly established schools stalled by departmentally trained teachers for all children, handicapped or nol. 
In these circumstances, exclusion of the State education departments from the benefits envisaged by the Act would have the result: 
That those States which have left to voluntary organisations the bulk of the responsibility to provide training facilities for their handicapped children are now lo be relieved of a very substantial proportion of their existing contribution, and, (2) those Stales which have accepted full responsibility to provide appropriate professional education facilities are specifically excluded from the Commonwealth assistance available under the provisions of this Bill. Even more serious is the fact that the provision of Commonwealth money on the basis envisaged, that is, to voluntary organisations and excluding. State education departments may possibly lead to the abandonment of State schools for the disabled in those states presently providing them, lt will certainly mean the end of any possibility of a unified nation-wide system of free education for the handicapped. 
The second point that was raised with mc is the concern of the Society that the Bill, whilst providing for a subsidy on capital expenditure, makes no provision for maintenance of the assets thereafter. Maintenance and running costs are very often the more substantial part of the work, as honourable members would probably agree. It is thought that many organisations may feel that their work could be inhibited if they have to be looking over their shoulder because of the added worry of maintenance and running costs. I recently had contact with a Save the Children Fund Committee in Port Lincoln and that Committee asked me for assistance in obtaining Commonwealth finance to aid the running of a preschool kindergarten for Aboriginal children in that town. I know that they are not handicapped children in the sense that the term is used in the Bill; they are handicapped in a different way. I wrote to the Minister who informed me that the Commonwealth had already made a considerable contribution towards the purchase of a building. But what was worrying the Port Lincoln Committee was the fact that a small dedicated committee, in this case, had the considerable job of raising a further $8,000 or more to cover running costs. Many organisations working for handicapped children will find themselves in a similar position. 
There is an organisation in my home town which was formed approximately 2 years ago to cater for retarded children. This organisation consists mostly of the parents of the children themselves. They received donations from numerous town organisations, enough to get themselves going, but they found that by combining with Whyalla which is 47 miles away they could give a better service to the unfortunate children. They have now had to equip themselves with a vehicle for transport, and this was another financial hurdle. The 2 organisations are the type that would find maintenance and running costs a further burden. The 2 towns concerned are comparatively small country cities, and the raising of the necessary, finance is a big problem. I therefore suggest to the Minister that he give consideration to the points I have raised and extend the provisions of the Bill to cover these 2 matters. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health, ls it a fact that at present there is no Commonwealth Government financial support for research into the disease of multiple sclerosis which is a chronic disease of the central nervous system? Does the Minister consider that it is psychologically important and most desirable for research to be performed in our own country into the causes of this disease, which is aptly named creeping paralysis? Will the Minister take action to provide Commonwealth finance for the necessary research into the cause of multiple sclerosis with the object of finding a cure for the disease? 
I wish to raise a grave issue which, if it is indicative of how young men are treated in the Services, merits full investigation. If the facts that I will mention are indicative of the general situation is it any wonder that there is dissatisfaction in the Services? This is a blatant case of a denial of natural justice. I refer to the case of Aircraftsman Glen Allan Piper who on 21st March 1969 at 17) years of age enlisted and signed on voluntarily for 6 years service in the Royal Australian Air Force. He was so keen to enlist that he even concealed a ruptured spleen that he had as a young lad and with which he is still troubled. His present age is 18£. He is presently serving detention of 28 days at Holsworthy. He is the youngest man in Holsworthy. He is a shade older than my second son. 
Let me recount his history. On enlistment he was sent to Point Cook for his initial training as a fireman in the rescue squad. During the course of that training he was hit by the metal section of a fire hose. He was admitted to hospital and was prescribed sleeping tablets by the medical officer. After he was discharged from the hospital he took them and he overslept. He was caught 3 hours late on duty by the Service police. He was charged and sentenced to 3 days confinement to barracks. Subsequently this young lad of 18 years of age went to Williamtown with the rescue squad. Part of his duties involved rescuing or attempting to rescue pilots from crashed planes. On one occasion a pilot tried to eject from a Sabre jet. He was ejected but his parachute did not open and he fell straight into the ground. This young lad of 18 had to pick him up. The pilot was just like a lump of jelly, with every bone in his body broken. What effect must that have had on an 18-year-old? 
He applied for discharge in the formal manner on 2 separate occaions. Even at Point Cook he applied for a discharge. This was recommended by his warrant officer but his application for discharge was ripped up in front of him and thrown into the waste paper basket. Further applications for discharge were dealt with in a similar summary fashion. This young lad reached the stage where he could not stand it any more. He was almost broken mentally and physically. He went absent without leave for 7 weeks. He went to his father in New Guinea.  His  father is a senior officer in the Public Service of New Guinea; he is third in charge of his department. He is a man I know well and respect. After 7 weeks in New Guinea there were family consultations about the boy surrendering and trying to get back on a proper keel in the Services. In my view at that time the lad, psychiatrically, should not have been allowed back, but they went to see a Wing Commander Carter, the resident Royal Australian Air Force officer in New Guinea who told them that in his opinion the boy would be dealt with sympathetically by his commanding officer and not sentenced to Holsworthy. But what happened? The boy surrendered voluntarily at 7 a.m. on 28th May on this advice and on the advice of a padre. He was taken back to Townsville by RAAF plane with 2 flight sergeants of the Service Police. Let me tell honourable members in the boy's own words what happened to him at Townsville. He said: 
At the moment I am in gaol. No open arrest like they promised. 
This was a reference to Wing Commander Carter's advice. He continued: 
I have to sit in this gaol for  3  days. Next time listen  to  me Dad. 
This was the young lad writing to his father. He continued: 
I think you have no chance in the world of getting me out of this outfit. So far they have just treated me like a wanted criminal. 
He continues - and this shows his state of mind: 
They would nol even give me a biro in case I might stab someone, and then they wonder why people get their back up against the RAAF. 
I ask the honourable members to pay attention to his next statement. He said: 
Last night I hardly got any sleep as they would not turn the light off in the cell all night. 
Last Saturday afternoon  i  interviewed him at Holsworthy and checked this out thoroughly. He asked for the light to be turned off but they gave him the light on treatment similar to the cold water treatment. This was the Townsville incident. 
I refer now to his treatment at Williamtown. He arrived at Williamtown on a Friday afternoon. What did they do to him? They locked him in a cell and left him there all night with a minimum of blankets. On Saturday they left him in the cell all day. He had no exercise and was not let out for 5 seconds. On Sunday they let him out for 20 minutes exercise. On Monday he remained in the cell until 3 p.m. when he was marched before the commanding officer of the Williamtown base. Group Captain Meldrum. He was marched in under an escort led by Warrant Officer Stibbard. 
This lad had been told that the hearing would not take place until Wednesday but on Monday he was marched in to the commanding officer and found that it was the real thing. He had a five minute hearing and was sentenced to 28 days' detention - the maximum the commanding officer could impose. Legally it is doubtful that an Air Force commanding officer can impose the maximum sentence. In the army 7 days is the maximum sentence a CO. can impose. Later this lad was subjected to further humiliation. While he was away his kit was stolen and after sentence a Warrant Officer Stibbard demanded SIO of the money that had been filched from him when he was first put in the cells. The reason given by Warrant Officer Stibbard was that the money was for three pairs of R.A.A.F. socks and that there were no Service socks on the base. What rot! Further humiliation occurred at the public post office when this lad was ringing his father in New Guinea to tell him that he had been sentenced. He was further humiliated when they made him give them $6 to buy a pair of service boots to wear to Holsworthy. 
This lad was keen to enlist in the Air Force, lt is any wonder that now he is keen to get out? I have in front of me a letter from the lad's father who has asked me to do anything I can to get this lad out. This morning I received a telegram from the father, who is in Port Moresby. The telegram reads, 'Advised late Wednesday that Glen was admitted to Ingleburn Military Hospital last Monday.' This lad was admitted to Ingleburn Military Hospital after I saw him on Saturday. Why, 1 do now know. I demand of the Minister that this matter should be fully investigated. The whole facts should hit the light of day. This lad should be examined by  a  psychiatrist before he is completely ruined. He is almost ruined mentally now. Will this lad have to be broken down completely before anything is done for him? Have we reached such a low ebb? Is that the way our Services should be run? To my mind it is not. 
I would like to make some observations on the Budget which was presented by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in this House on 18th August .1970. Perhaps the big surprise was the extent of the relief granted on personal income tax, about a 10 per cent reduction on taxable incomes up to $10,000 and tapering off on taxable incomes above this amount with a cut-off point at $32,000. Yet it becomes clear that without this scale of reduction the lower and middle income wage earner would have been severely hit by the increases in duty on cigarettes, tobacco and petrol and on increased postal charges, telephone rentals, etc. When these factors are taken into account along with the increased tax of  2i  per cent on companies the Budget may be described as a balanced one with the average citizen gaining very little out of it. Although the increases in social welfare payments will be welcomed, a 50c increase to pensioners will not arouse any degree of enthusiasm. Those words are not mine. They are also not the ravings of some radical Socialist journalist. They are the editorial comment of the latest issue of the official journal published by the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce. Even this Government's most earnest supporters are critical. I have never heard a Budget which has been damned with so much faint praise. Let us have a close look at the grandiose gesture of the Treasurer in the reduction of personal income tax, a blanket 10 per cent reduction across the board to all in receipt of a taxable income of $10,000 a year and less. In his Budget speech the Treasurer said: 
Effective tax rates have increased more on lower and middle incomes than on higher incomes, and hi giving some relief from the effects of (he past trends, there is a clear case for ensuring that most of the relief will go to lower and middle income earners. In the result there will be increases in the take-home remuneration in the income ranges where it is most needed. 
Just where is this increase in the takehome remuneration most needed? In my view it is certainly not in the area of persons who are in receipt of a taxable income of $10,000 a year. It is of interest to note that according to the official statistics as published by the Commissioner for Taxation 60 per cent of taxpayers in Australia are in receipt of a taxable income of less than $3,000 a year. And what has the Treasurer done for this group? 
As my friend the honourable member for Sydney says, very little. That is very true. A person in receipt of a taxable income of $3,000 a year will have his income tax reduced by $46.12, less than $1 a week. He will still pay $416 a year in taxation, which is 14 per cent of his taxable income. I point out that 26 per cent of the taxpayers have a taxable income of between $2,000 and $3,000 a year. A person in receipt of a taxable income of $2,000 a year will receive a reduction of $21.73. This is a paltry reduction. That person still will have to pay $196 a year. This group with taxable incomes of up to $3,000 a year comprise the bulk of the ordinary working people of Australia. They represent 60 per cent of the taxpaying public. They have been treated to a miserly handout. 
I want to contrast this handout with the position of taxpayers with taxable incomes of up to $10,000 a year. On a taxable income of $10,000 a year the reduction will be $348; on a taxable income of $9,000 a year the reduction will be $295; on a taxable income of $8,000 a year the reduction will be $245; and so on down the scale. Referring back to the words of the Treasurer, this is what he said in his Budget Speech: 
. there will be increases in the lake-home remuneration in the income ranges where it is most needed. 
Who needs it most? The ordinary people who are battling to rear and educate a family and who comprise 60 per cent of the community or the more fortunate people who are doing quite well despite the tax scale? I am afraid that the Treasurer has his priorities mixed and I beg to differ with him as to what is a middle income. 
What are the net results of the grandiose gesture by the Treasurer in the personal income tax field? He estimated in his Budget papers that he will still collect $178m more this financial year than he collected in the year ended on 30th June 1970. I think the correct description for this Budget is that it is a bodgie Budget. It should be withdrawn and completely recast. 
Even honourable members on the Government side are unhappy with it. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess),  with whom I do not often agree, echoed my sentiments when he criticised the manner in which these taxation adjustments were made. In a speech in this chamber last Friday he said: 
. I feel it would have been of greater benefit to those people who need assistance - the young married couples in the lower income group and those people with children at school who are buying a house - if the taxation schedule had been reformed in another way. ... 1 think the Government made a mistake.  [ agree with the honourable member for La Trobe. I think the Government made a grave mistake. There was not one word in the Treasurer's Budget Speech about any scheme by the Government to prevent plans by taxpayers for legalised tax avoidance. I am certain that there would be recommendations in existence for alteration of income tax laws to prevent these legalised methods of tax evasion. I am fortified in these thoughts by a statement made by a Second Commissioner of Taxation as far back as May 1969. He publicly stated that these tax avoidance schemes were a social evil. If a Second Commissioner of Taxation went so far as to make this statement publicly I have no doubt that these thoughts would have been put on paper to the Government in the form of recommended changes in the legislation. Knowing the way in which the Taxation Branch operates - I worked in it for 34 years prior to coming to this House - I have no doubt that the estimates of revenue lost by these and other legally fraudulent schemes of evasion would have been worked out and also put on paper. It is common knowledge within the Taxation Branch that the revenue loss from these various tax avoidance schemes runs into hundreds of  millions of dollars.I know for a fact that there is in existence a continuing departmental committee which is keeping up with the various tax dodges and where necessary recommending legislative changes. 
I challenge the Treasurer to produce the figures showing tax losses by these legal devices to avoid income tax. How much revenue is being lost by the inaction of this Government? Why are these legislative changes not being made? Is it right that one section of the community should be paying more than its fair share of the revenue of this country? Is it right that the ordinary wage earner should be asked to substantiate his claim for medical expenses, chemical expenses, gifts to charities and other paltry amounts while that section of the community which can afford to pay is being allowed to defraud the revenue of hundreds of millions of dollars a year? 
Last week a Bill was introduced in this House by the Government to amend the Income Tax Assessment Act. Was it a Bill designed to tie up these legal loopholes of tax avoidance? It could have been but it was not; it was a Bill designed to give further benefits to companies which can afford to pay. It is designed to grant them further concessions. It will allow the deduction of interest paid on convertible notes. When this type of interest was made non-deductible by this Government - under a different leader - in1960 the honourable member for Wentworth, who is now the Treasurer, made a statement supporting the measures to disallow a deduction for interest on these convertible notes. I quote from Hansard of 7th December 1960. The present Treasurer said this: 
As to the permanent measure indicated by the Treasurer - the taxation on convertible notes - I do not think on the whole that any reasonable person anywhere would challenge a measure of this character, because this operation of convertible notes has clearly been closely tied up with measures to dodge taxation . . . 
Has the position changed since then? 
Then why is the situation being altered now? Is this a responsible Government? Its actions would lead one to have very grave doubts. I further challenge the Treasurer to come out now and publicly state why these tax avoidance devices are being allowed to continue. In reply to a questionI asked in this House on 8th May of this year about tax avoidance schemes, schemes, the Treasurer said: 
It is open under the law for any citizen to operate the laws as he can best to his advantage. 
That is a rather remarkable statement for a Treasurer to make - a person whose duty it is to see that the taxation revenue of this country is protected. In reply to the same question, in which I suggested various schemes of tax avoidance which should be looked into, the Treasurer said: 
. if the honourable member has any good practical suggestions and examples which we could bring in quickly I should certainly be very delighted for the information that he can provide. 
How ludicrous can you get? Here we have a trained and efficient staff in the Taxation Office ready and willing to tell the Treasurer what remedies are needed. In fact, [ am certain that they have already told him. However, in answer to a question I asked the Treasurer has said to me in so many words: 'You tell me what to do.' Does this mean that he has given up the ghost or has he no confidence in his own staff? If either of these explanations apply he should not remain in office; he should resign. 
I consider that there are many more ways of sharing the tax burden in an equitable manner than apply at the present time. The income tax legislation should be completely rewritten, it is a horse and buggy Act in a jet age economy. It is like a patch work quilt - every time a hole is plugged skilled legal practitioners find another one. They are not acting for the ordinary person who can ill afford to pay his tax. let alone legal fees. The tax legislation is a bonanza for the lawyers and the rich. It could well be that there should be only one definition of 'income' to bring it into line with the thoughts of a former Justice of the High Court,  Mr Justice  Dixon, who, when asked to give a definition of income, was quoted as saying: 'Income is what comes in'. A more practical step would be to follow the example of Canada and set up a royal commission to revise completely the whole structure of taxation. This was done in Canada and action is now in train in that country completely to rewrite the tax legislation to bring it more into line with their modern economy. Every time our income tax law act is simplified it becomes harder to understand. We should scrap it and start afresh. 
Possibly the matter most vital to the Australian people is the cost of education, which has reached the stage where it is almost beyond the capacity of the States adequately to provide the necessary finance. Education is the corner-stone on which a country develops. Our future development is dependent to a large degree on the extent to which we wisely spend money on educating our children. This Government has callously disregarded the needs of education and has failed to acknowledge in the Budget the undertaking given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his election policy that this Government would give consideration to the survey of the needs of state education over the next 5 years which was made by the Australian Education Council. The provision of adequate education services is directly related to the supply of Commonwealth funds to the States. The supply of Commonwealth funds to the States for education is totally inadequate. The needs of education must be given their just priority, otherwise the progress of education will be halted. 
I have seen schools in New South Wales, in my electorate and in adjoining areas, which are in such a poor condition that any self-respecting farmer would be ashamed to put his livestock in them. Kogarah High School is one such school. There are classrooms at this school which do not have even the benefit of electric light if one can call that a benefit - it is certainly not a luxury. How can we expect children to study under these conditions? Also, there is a lack of trained teachers with the result that class loads are unbelievably high. When a teacher is sick there is no replacement. Is it any wonder that teachers, who are professional people, are forced to take industrial action? Teachers have the interests of the children at heart. Why should it be necessary to recruit teachers from overseas? We have qualified people in Australia anxious to embark on a teaching career but there are insufficient places available for them at teachers colleges due to lack of finance. 
Education is a matter of national importance because it concerns the development of an Australia of the future. It has to be looked at on a wide scale, as the quality of education in our schools ultimately will decide whether Australia as a nation has the ability to develop its resources. What is the use of science and library grants unless there is a trained teacher in the class or an adequate building effectively to put these grants to their full use? The education problem is not confined only to State schools. The independent school system is in danger of collapse in many areas, with the exception of a few prestige colleges. In New South Wales only  1  new Catholic secondary schools have started in the last 10 years. There was no mention in the Budget Speech of any additional grants to independent schools. The parents of children attending these schools face a grave financial burden. They are deserving of further assistance. It is economic common sense for any government to see that these schools are properly maintained. How much would it cost the State if these schools were forced to close? The Australian Labor Party believes in a diversified system of education and grants to all schools on the basis of need. 
One of the real problems in the Catholic school system is the supply of an adequate number of trained lay teachers who now comprise a large proportion of the teaching staff of Catholic schools. I would like to quote a few figures in this regard which are applicable to the Catholic school system. In New South Wales in 1962 19 per cent of teachers in Catholic schools were lay teachers. In 1968 40 per cent of teachers were lay teachers. In Victoria in 1968 51 per cent of teachers at Catholic schools were lay teachers. We can see the grave burden which is thrust upon the Catholic school system in carrying the load of salaries paid to lay teachers. This Government has not even taken into account the problems which have been caused by our immigration programme, particularly as it affects these schools. Education is a Commonwealth responsibility and the Commonwealth should shoulder its fair share of the burden. 
In conclusion 1 would like to state that I agree wholeheartedly with the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  which reads: 
This House condemns this deceptive and negative Budget because it fails to meet the real needs of the Australian people, especially with respect to (a) standards of social service and war pensioners, (b) assistance to school, hospital and urban authorities and (c) restructuring of stricken primary industries and because it introduces and increases taxes and charges of a regressive and inequitable nature'. 
I preface my question to the Postmaster-General with a complaint from a widow in ill health who is being worried at all hours of the day and night by telephone calls from business houses peddling their wares. Is it an offence under the postal regulations to pester telephone  subscribers indiscriminately in this way? If it is not an offence, will the Minister consider amending the regulations to prevent this abuse of the telephone system? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The task which has faced Australia in the development of Papua and New Guinea has not been an easy one.  It  is a very diverse country with extreme difficulties in communications, transport and language. Its people have known many rulers the German administration up to 1914, the Australian military administration between 1914 and 1921, the Australian civil administration from 1921 until the Japanese invasion in the 1940s, Japanese control until the surrender of Japan in 1945 and Australian administration from 1945 to the present time. The situation is further complicated by the fact that whilst the Territory of Papua is administered by the Commonwealth of Australia in its own right, the Territory of New Guinea is administered under a trusteeship agreement approved by the General Assembly of the United Nations. However, the Papua and New Guinea Act 1949 provided for the government of both Territories in an administrative union with the title of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
This Government has stated that it has 3 basic economic objectives in its administration of Papua and New Guinea. They are, firstly, to accelerate progress towards economic self-reliance; secondly, to accelerate indigenous involvement, that is, involvement by local or native people, in employment, management and ownership; and thirdly, to raise the standards of welfare of the local people. They are very worthy objectives. I would like to analyse critically the performance of these objectives in an unbiased manner.  I  recently heard an address given by Reverend Arthur Preston of Wesley Church, Melbourne, at a meeting of the Parliamentary Christian Fellowship Association. He made this very true statement: 
Every system is to be judged by how it serves people. 
As regards Papua and New Guinea, the system and the performance of the system should be judged by how it serves the indigenouspeople,thelocal  people; the  native people; whichever name you chose to call them. In June this year I visited Papua and New Guinea with the purpose of seeing conditions as they actually were. I saw many good things and many bad things. I would like to make  it  clear that Australia's main objective should  be  to bring about independence for the Territory as early as possible. This can be done only when a core of skilled people is created for the needs of nationhood. Education is the key to independence. Much still remains to be done in this field. Finance is in very short supply but in the schools which I visited the lack of finance was partially offset by the extreme dedication of the teaching staff. As an instance of this I would like to quote my experiences at the Bugandi High School at Lae. By Australian standards it would be classified as a technical high school where most trades are taught up to 4th Form level. Most of the pupils are boarders who live in reasonable conditions. The pupils come from all parts of the Territory. This school is fortunate to have a dedicated headmaster and teaching staff. The school day starts at 7.30 a.m. and goes through into the night with evening lessons. 
The tireless headmaster and the teaching staff, almost on their own, have in 10 years built up this school, by extracurricula agricultural activities, to the stage where it could be more properly described as an agricultural high schol. The considerable profits made by these agricultural ventures are voluntarily used in making improvements to the school. In addition, the pupils are trained in agricultural methods. This story of dedication could be told about every school which I visited and I am proud to say that nearly every teacher was a fellow Australian. The Territory has a fine university, as yet only in its infancy. The first graduates came out this year but they only numbered 10. I was informed that the Government target of graduates is 200 by 1972 but the ViceChancellor informed me he would be lucky to get that . number by 1980. Medical facilities in the larger towns are reasonable. However, much still needs to be done in the non-paying or native sections of the hospitals, particularly at Port Moresby. In these hospitals also there is a degree of dedication by the medical staff, both native and European, which has to be seen to be believed. 
Possibly the greatest criticism that one can make is against the inequalities in the wage structure. There is in existence a system of indentured native labour which is similar in many respects to the slave labour system which applied in the United States of America in the worst days prior to the American Civil War. This system applies particularly to plantation workers. 
The practice is to recruit native labourers in their villages - they are commonly called bush kanakas' - and to bring them down, a couple of hundred at a time, to work on the plantations. The Department of Labour ordinances prescribe a princely sum for their work. The prescribed minimum wage payable to these plantation workers is $52 a year in the first year of employment, $58.50 a year in the second year and $65 a year in the third and subsequent years of continuous employment with the same employer. In addition they are fed and housed in a somewhat primitive fashion. Is it any wonder that the  Speaker  of the Papua and New Guinea House of Assembly,  Mr John  Guise, made the charge that Papuans and New Guineans were being exploited as cheap labour? 
I beg to differ with the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  who stated on 7th January 1970 that: 
Wages in Papua and New Guinea had to be based on local conditions and the country's current stage of economic development. 
In the eyes of the local people it is sheer exploitation. Industry in New Guinea can afford to pay more. A cursory look at its profits will show this. If these people are exploited now, I shudder to think what will happen to the Europeans when independence is granted. The lesson should be: Wake up before it is too late. The educated and partly educated local native people are treated a little better, but there is too great a difference between the salaries paid to the local native officers and to the overseas recruited Europeans, who are mainly Australians. 
I quote some examples. A local native patrol officer receives a minimum of $1,070 per annum. In comparison, the overseas officer receives a minimum of $4,991 per annum. An artisan on completion of his apprenticeship, if he is a local native officer, receives a minimum of $1,070 per annum whereas an overseas officer receives a minimum of $3,660 per annum. A local native medical technologist who is fully trained receives a minimum of $1,290 per annum while an overseas officer receives a minimum of $4,550 per annum. In addition to this, married male overseas officers are paid an allowance at the rate of $360 per annum which the local native officer does not receive. 
This pattern is followed throughout the whole of the New Guinea Public Service. I again quote John Guise, the  Speaker  of the Papua and New Guinea House of Assembly, as reported in the 'Canberra Times' of 23rd April 1970. He said: 
It is only human nature for the Papuan and New Guinean people to want the same things, particularly when you are on the basic wage which is approximately $7 per week. 
There are grave discriminations in the Navy rates of pay. We must remember that the New Guineans and the Europeans serve on the same ships. First year apprentices in the Royal Australian Navy, if they are Europeans, receive $12.04 a week and Papuans and New Guineans receive $3.22 a week. A leading cook in the Royal Australian Navy receives $8.34 a day and the Papuan or New Guinean receives $2.84 a day. A cook, in the Royal Australian Navy receives $7.56 a day and the Papuan or New Guinean receives $1.24 a day. A fully trained radio operator in the Royal Australian Navy receives $8.84 a day while the Papuan or New Guinean receives $1.24 a day. In addition, Royal Australian Navy personnel receive marriage allowances and other allowances which the local native sailors do not receive, ls it any wonder that there is discontent? 
I have spoken of some of the good and bad things that I have found. In the long term view I consider that the problems of Papua and New Guinea should be taken out of the realm of party politics. We are dealing with the future of over 2 million people. We are dealing with their lives. We are playing with fire. Australia's future defence is closely tied up with having a well ordered, friendly nation on our doorstep. I think the time is ripe for the Government to give consideration to the setting up of a joint select committee from the Government and Opposition parties to consider long term policies for the good of the Territory and  for  the good  nf Australia. 
For the first time since I have been in this Parliament we have the situation in which 3 Opposition members have spoken to oppose a Bill and not one Government supporter has spoken to support it. I do not know whether or not this is usual. I think that Government supporters are either ashamed of the Bill or they have not got the courage to stand up and support it. 1 would not like to think that there was not a Government supporter who was capable of standing up to support the Bill. I give honourable members opposite the benefit of the doubt. I think that they have not got the courage to stand up and support it, and I think that they have very good reasons for not supporting it. 
Sales tax is an inequitable tax. It is implicit in any taxation system that the tax burden should be based on ability to pay. The tax burden should be distributed fairly amongst the community; sales tax is not. 1 should like to quote from the White Paper which was brought down by the Canadian Minister for Finance in 1969 which related to proposals for tax reform in that country. The principles about which the Canadian Minister for Finance speaks apply with equal force in Australia. Hesaid: 
Fairness in taxation implies 2 principles. First, it means that people in similar circumstances should carry similar shares of the tax load. But, for a variety of reasons - historical, accident, outdated decisions or short-term expediency - taxpayers' circumstances are defined in ways that ignore certain forms of income and expenditures. Many of the wealthy in our society have benefited unduly. A taxpayer is understandably angry when he sees that he carries an extra tax burden to pay the cost of unfairly low taxes on others. This concept of fairness must shape the standards we apply . . . 
As I said, I suggest that the principles as enunciated there apply with equal force in Australia. Further on he said: 
Fairness also requires that people with higher incomes, people who are better off, should be expected to pay in taxes a larger share of their incomes than persons with lower incomes. 
I think that quotation contains the argument against the imposition of sales tax as such. There is only one equitable form of taxation, and that is a progressive income tax based cm ability to pay. But sales tax is not imposed in that way. 
Let us have a look at the principles of sales tax. The tax was imposed in 1930 as a temporary measure. It was imposed during the depression years. When it was first imposed the rate was  2½  per cent on all goods which were not specifically exempted. In the period between 1930 and 1939 the rate was increased gradually until it reached 6 per cent. Then came the war years from 1939 onwards. In those years the necessity arose to increase sales tax. This was done by governments of all political persuasions which were in power during those years. Eventually, in 1942, during the darkest days of the war, a sales tax rate of 25 per cent was introduced for articles in the Third Schedule. The rate was even increased to 50 per cent in 1951. If my memory serves me correctly, Labor was not in power in 1951. 
During the war years there grew a concept of a sales tax rate on luxury items. That concept has been carried forward from those days to the present time. Let us have a look at some of the items which previously attracted a rate of 25 per cent but which will attract a rate of 27½ per cent and see whether they fall within the category of luxuries. In the list we find such items as paper weights. Is a paperweight a luxury? Possibly it may be a luxury if it is necessary to defend oneself with it. Other items include paper knives and fobs. I suppose a fob would be classed as a luxury today, although I can see honourable members in this chamber who wear fobs. I would not say they were wearing a luxury item. Nutcrackers will now be taxed at the rate of  27½  per cent. Could anybody in his wildest dreams tell me that a nutcracker is a luxury and should be put in the luxury class? Incense burners fall into this category. I do not know who the Government is getting at here, whether or not it is getting at High Church of England or Catholic Church people who burn incense. Is it getting at the hippies or the flower people? 
They may well be from this Government. Other items of luxury include cigarette lighters. Sales tax on these items has increased from 25 per cent to the higher rate of 27½ per cent. Other luxury items include fountain pens and ball point pens. They will also be taxed on this basis. Even refills for the ball point pens are classed as a luxury and the full rate of 27± per cent is applicable. A watch is a luxury; it is not a necessity any more. The list goes on to mention toiletries and beauty preparations. Would anybody tell my wife or the wife of any honourable member of this House that the toiletries that they use are a luxury? I guarantee that many honourable members in this chamber would not be game to go home and tell their wives to cease buying these luxuries - toilet preparations, lipsticks and face powders. I doubt that there would be one member in this Chamber who would have the courage to do it. Powder compacts, powder puffs, powder sprays, powder bowls and lipstick containers are also classed as luxury items. I do not know whether this Government is knocking the ladies of this country. After all, more than 50 per cent of the voters are women. 
The poor old man does not escape this inequitable sales tax either. Safety razors and safety razor blades are subject to sales tax of 27± per cent, whereas previously the rate was 25 per cent. They are now classed as luxuries. Included in this list are electric razors, shaving brushes, shaving sticks and shaving creams. I do not know what the Government expects the men in this country to do. Does it expect them all to become like the hippies and to grow beards? I know at least one member in this Parliament who is apparently suffering from the effects of this Government's policy and is growing a beard. Does the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  expect us all to grow beards? 1 do not know. Toilet and dressing cases are also included in this list. I could run through this list and ridicule the items on which this rate of 27i per cent is imposed. 1 think this Bill is deserving of ridicule. 
Some items on which sales tax has increased from 25 per cent to 27i per cent have felt the very heavy hand of the Treasurer even in recent times. Let us take tape recorders. Up to 1967 the rate of sales tax on tape recorders was  I2i  per cent, and when the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act (No. 80 of 1967) came into operation on 16th August 1970 the rate was increased to 25 per cent. Now it goes up to 27i per cent. I do not know whether a tape recorder can be classed as a luxury. I think it plays a very important part in a person's schooling nowadays. I grant that a certain amount of pleasure can be obtained from  a  tape recorder, but does that place it within the category of a luxury? Even still photographs and cinamagraph film which were previously taxed at the rate of 124- per cent up to 1967 and increased to 25 per cent in that year, wil now be taxed at the rate of 27£ per cent. 
I think the instances I have given show the complete fallacy of this type of taxing, lt is inequitable. The burden is not shared equally. As the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  said earlier, the burden falls equally on the widow and on the pensioner, just as it does on the very rich person, lt is an inequitable tax and should not be in existence, lt. should be replaced by a progressively based income tax. When the Labor Party gets into power - and it will - its policy will be gradually to abolish sales tax, except for luxury items, and replace it with a more graduated scale of income tax which is an equitable tax. 
There is no need to be careful on that. This has been Labor policy for a long time. 1 would like to look at one of the biggest imposts as a result of this tax. It has been on the motor car industry. South Australia is a State which is very much dependent on the motor car industry. In New South Wales, the State from which I come, we are not as dependent on this industry, although it does comprise a big slice of our secondary industry. But the Slate of South Australia will be heavily hit by this impost. It has already been heavily hit. I would like to give a few figures which demonstrate the effect that this tax is likely to have on the motor car industry of that State. South Australia has 2 major motor vehicle manufacturing companies. They are General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd and Chrysler Aust. Ltd. These 2 companies between them employ 18,000 people on motor assembly work. Approximately a further 9,000 are employed in the making of component parts for motor vehicles in that State. The total work force employed in manufacturing industries in South Australia approximates 130,000. So one-fifth of South Australia's employment force is engaged in the motor industry. 
Let us have a look at the effect that this tax is likely to have and the intention of this imposition of increased sales tax as it applies to motor vehicles. The obvious intention is to dampen down sales of motor vehicles. Prior to the imposition of this additional sales tax interest rates went up. As a result of that increase sales of motor vehicles dropped by 10 per cent. As yet statistics are not available to show the drop in sales of motor vehicles as a result of the imposition of this sales tax. The full effect of it will be felt in the months ahead. The greatest effect will be felt in the State of South Australia because it is vitally dependent upon this industry. This Government has a lot on its conscience. If the situation in South Australia reaches the stage at which a work force is willing to work in this industry but due to the curtailment of sales in the industry cannot find employment this Government will have to answer for it. 
The Labor Party opposes this Bill on several issues. The first is that it is inflationary. The increased sales tax on every item will be passed on to the public. Industry will not carry one iota of the additional sales tax imposed. As a matter of fact, it will pass on more than the amount of increase, as we have seen in connection with other measures, particularly that related to the excise on wine. An additional margin will be charged by manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers on top of the increased sales tax. It is inflationary in that regard also. We oppose this Bill because it is inequitable. I have pointed out earlier in my speech why it is inequitable. The only thing which can be said in its favour is that it is an easy way to collect revenue. This Government has taken the easy way out. 
The Bill before the House is a very complex piece of legislation. I do not think there would be any argument on that from either side of this House. The object of the legislation is to allow a deduction of interest on convertible notes subject to prescribed conditions. Let us have a look at the history of this question of the deductibility of interest on convertible notes. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  had a look at this question in his speech. 
I would like to repeat some of the figures that he gave. We had a situation which reached a peak in the income year 1959-60 when $48.8m was subscribed by way of convertible notes. The total borrowings or amounts invested in share capital in that year were $95m. In the succeeding year it was $l97m. In 1959-60 we had a borrowing on convertible notes of $48. 8m out of a total share capital of $95. 8m. In other words, the peak was reached during that year. Prior to that we had a gradual increase in this type of security. In 1958-59 it was $ 19.6m, in 1957-58 it was $13.8m, in 1956- 57 it was $5. 8m and in the preceding years it was almost infinitesimal. That was the reason for the introduction of legislation in 1960. 
Honourable members might ask why there was a sudden upsurge in this type of security. The reason, naturally enough, was that there was a tax advantage in it. There was a tax advantage in 'the issuing of convertible notes by companies and that was the purpose of the issue. The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  who is the present Treasurer, at the time when this legislation was introduced in 1960 had this to say about the question of interest deductibility on convertible notes: 
As to the permanent measure indicated by the Treasurer - the taxation on convertible notes - 1 do not think on the whole that any reasonable person anywhere would challenge a measure of this character, because this operation of convertible notes has clearly been closely tied up with measures to dodge taxation. 
I wonder why there has been this sudden change of heart. The Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  when he was Treasurer indicated to the House after his  1969  Budget Speech that the Government would re-introduce deductibility of interest on convertible notes. At that time he said: 
Convertible notes have worthwhile advantages apart from considerations such as those I have mentioned. They have been widely used as a means of raising capital on international markets and could therefore place Australian companies in a better position to raise funds overseas. 1  notice that there is no mention in the present Treasurer's second reading speech of this facet of the Government's intention. In fact, the impression was given that the desirable features ' of this Bill were to achieve exactly the opposite purpose, that this legislation would facilitate the raising of capital in Australia. Yet we had a situation which was set out by the Treasurer's predecessor who indicated thai the Government intended to place Australian companies in a better position to raise funds overseas. This is one of the basic purposes of the Bill about which we as an Opposition disagree with the Government. 
I would like the Minister for Immigration who is also the Minister assisting the Treasurer to say whether this Bill is the first step in the opening of the flood gates. The Government is taking a big step.  1  believe that the Opposition and the people of Australia are entitled to know whether this is the first step in the opening of the flood gates.  1  listened to the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  who was the first  speaker  from the Government side of the House to speak on this Bill.  1  believe that he more or less envisaged that this could be the case. The honourable member said: 
In future it may be necessary to restrict it a little further. It may be possible to open it a little further. 
J am wondering whether it is the Government's intention - the Minister assisting the Treasurer can give me an answer in his reply - to open the flood gates again? Does the Government intend to open the flood gates a little further? Is this Bill the first step in this operation? My main quarrel with the Government is that better means should be used to encourage the investment of capita] in Australia. The Minister in his second reading speech indicated that one of the main reasons for the measure which is before the House is that it will assist to encourage the investment of capital in developing companies with good but to some extent uncertain prospects. I wonder, from an economic viewpoint, whether we should be doing this. Should we be offering encouragement to investors to hazard their capital? Have we reached a stage of economic development in Australia where we have a surplus of Australian capital available for uncertain prospects? I think not. Should the Government encourage this type of speculative venture by the judicious use of taxation legislation? I certainly do not agree that the Government should be adopting this type of legislation to achieve its stated objectives. 
There is no shortage of Australian equity capital for ventures that have a fair chance of success. We should not be seeking to over-stretch our resources into fields of investment with uncertain prospects. There is ample evidence to establish that companies in the extractive minerals industry with reasonable chances of success have no problem in raising equity capital without the necessity to resort to the use of convertible notes. As an example of this, one has only to look at the situation which applied to such companies in the extractive minerals industry as Robe River Limited and Utah Development. When they recently floated on the Australian market Utah Development's shares were issued at  85  per cent premium which meant that a  $1  issue was issued at  $1.85.  Brokers were flooded with applications for these shares. The same flood of share applications applied to Robe River Limited. The Robe River Limited share issue was at par or  $1.  Utah's shares were issued at a premium - at  $1.85.  There was a flood of capital in the cases I have mentioned. 
What is the reason for the measure now before us? I suggest that the reason for this measure is to enable capital to be hazarded in speculative industries. I consider that speculative industries of this kind should not be encouraged in the current, state of Australian growth and development. It is bad economics to initiate legislation which will have the effect of overstretching our capacity for Australian investment. On the one hand this Government is having extreme difficulty in filling its Commonwealth loans for capital works. On the other hand, on the word of the Treasurer, the Government is seeking to encourage the utilisation of Australian capital in developing companies with uncertain prospects. I do not agree that we should attempt to over-stretch our economy to this extent. 
I now turn to the general basis of the Bill. It is true, of course, that convertible borrowings, which replace what would otherwise be straight fixed interest borrowings, do not in any way prejudice income tax revenue. It is also true that overseas investors are more interested in using their funds to obtain equity capital and are not particularly interested in fixed interest lending. Overseas investors are interested in sharing the control of Australian companies which they do when they have shares or equity capital but which they do not do when they lend at fixed rates of interest. It is in this regard that the Opposition quarrels with this Bill. When we get down to the conditions and specifications in this Bill we find that the Government has a different series of conditions applicable to borrowings on the foreign market compared with borrowings on the Australian market. I would like the Minister to explain why we have this differential treatment? Is it because the Government wants to encourage the investment of foreign capital in Australia to the detriment of the Australian economy? 
Tonight, I have heard the most apologetic speeches from the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and I can understand why they arc apologetic. Apparently they are ashamed of the backdown by their own Government. The Australian Labor Party opposed this legislation when it was brought into this House originally as a permanent measure. We opposed this method of assisting the States with additional revenue because this type of legislation was grossly unfair. We still oppose the receipts tax even as an interim measure. 
Receipts tax is a harsh and inequitable tax. It is levied on the total business turnover, irrespective of the extent of expenses incurred in arriving at this turnover. There is no equity in this type of taxation. Indeed, it unfairly discriminates against businesses in country areas. Official Government figures issued by the Department of Decentralisation and Development in New South Wales indicate that country businesses have a cost of production disadvantage of at least 1 per cent on sales. Yet, these businesses in country areas have to pay on a turnover basis the same rate of receipts tax as their more fortunate competitors in city areas where production costs are lower. I ask honourable members of the Government who are members of the Country Party whether they agree with this type of legislation that unfairly reacts against those business people whom they are supposed to represent. 
Let me make the position quite clear as far as the Australian Labor Party is concerned. The Australian Labor Party has opposed the introduction of a receipts tax in every State Parliament and also in the Federal Parliament. The tax was introduced first by the Liberal Government in Western Australia in 1967. It was opposed by the Labor Party in both Houses of that Parliament. In 1968, the tax was introduced by the Liberal Government in Victoria and again was opposed by the Labor Party. In 1969, it was introduced by the Askin Liberal Government in New South Wales and was opposed by Labor Opposition Leader Hills. A South Australian Liberal Government introduced it in the same year and the tax similarly was opposed by the Labor Opposition there. The Tasmanian Labor Government was forced to introduce receipts tax because the Premier of that State was informed by the Commonwealth Grants Commission that, unless it fell into line with the action taken by the other States, the Commission will recommend a corresponding reduction in the grant by the Commonwealth to that State. The Australian Labor Party has been consistent all along the line in its opposition to this type of legislation. 
I wish to highlight the reasons why this type of legislation was forced on the various States by the Federal Government. I can do no better than quote the words of the Liberal colleague of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in New South Wales - the  Hon.  R. W. Askin. These remarks were made at the conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers held at Canberra on 26th February 1970. I quote from page 3 of. the proceedings of that Conference.  Mr Askin  said: 
I know,  Mr Prime  Minister, that you are well aware of the position. We believe that in the matter of State taxes we have just about reached saturation point. Wilh a view to trying to help ourselves, and with a bit of prodding from  Mr Bury's  predecessor, we went into the receipts tax field. 
The person who did the prodding,  Mr Bury's  predecessor, was the honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  who was subsequently dropped from the Treasury portfolio. The receipts tax was conceived in haste and despair by State governments due to the parsimonious attitude of the Commonwealth Government towards the States. It was a product of the crisis in Commonwealth-State financial relations and like most things conceived in haste in eventually turned out to be illegitimate. We can apply that analogy to this legislation which died almost before it was born. 
One of the greatest inequities of this receipts tax was its cumulative effect. The producer who produced the raw materials which were sold to the manufacturer paid receipts duty ou the sale price. After the manufacturer had used the raw material and when the product was paid for by the wholesaler the transaction was again subject to receipts tax. The wholesaler sold the article to the retailer and again it was subject to receipts tax. Finally, it was sold to the public and again was subject to receipts tax. All of these payments, of course, were passed on to the public and the inevitable result was increased prices. This legislation had a significant effect on firms and companies with large turnovers and small profit margins, but they did not bear the cost of the tax. They passed it on. Again the inevitable result was increased prices, mainly in food lines. The present Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  had this to say when he originally introduced the State receipts duty legislation in this House on 4th June 1970. 1 quote from page 2962 of Hansard: 
. T feel I must strongly emphasise the importance, particularly in view of existing demand pressures in the economy, of ensuring that there is not at this stage any substantial loss in budgeted revenue collections such as would occur if the Commonwealth did not legislate on the basis requested by the States. 
He went on to say: 
In these circumstances, it would clearly be dangerously irresponsible to allow a retrospective reduction in tax revenues at the rate of some $70m per annum. 
On 4th June he spoke of existing demand pressures and substantial loss in budgeted revenue collections and he said that it would be dangerously irresponsible to allow the reduction in tax revenues of some $70m per annum. Yet in October this year, some 4 months later, the Prime Minister agreed to pay the States the equivalent of their lost revenue from receipts tax. Various figures have been mentioned, between $50m and S70m a year. I think that this snows the deviousness of this Government's policies. If it was dangerously irresponsible on 4th June what has happened in the intervening 4 months? Were the Treasurer's statements on 4th June a true statement of the position or were they made merely to bolster up the Government's desire to introduce a further piece of regressive legislation? I think the latter is the position. Maybe the Treasurer or the Assistant Treasurer can give an explanation of these apparent inconsistencies. 
In conclusion I would like to state that this Government stands condemned on 2 counts. Firstly, it should never have forced the States to introduce this inequitable and regressive tax. It would not have been necessary if the Commonwealth had faced up to its responsibilities and dealt with the State governments and local government authorities in a fair and equitable manner. Secondly, the Government, having made its decision to go ahead with this legislation when it first came before this House, should not have succumbed to the political blackmail of the Democratic Labor Party in the Senate, whose main objective was to preserve the political life of the DLP representative in Queensland. If the Government was sincere in its belief that receipts tax should have been implemented on an indeterminate basis, it should have had the courage to stand up to its decisions and gone to the people on the issue. On both counts it failed and stands condemned. 
Question put: 
That the Bills be read a second time. 
The Income Tax Assessment Bill before the House seeks to suspend the provisions of section 62aa of the Income Tax Assessment Act, which relates to what is commonly known as the investment allowance. This allowance is a special income tax deduction based upon expenditure on new manufacturing plant. It is noted that in his announcement of the Government's intention the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  used the word 'suspend' in regard to the cessation of this allowance. The same wording was used in the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  Why was this section of the Income Tax Assessment Act not completely discontinued? Is it the Government's intention to have the same stop-start economy which we have seen with a successive number of LiberalCountry Party governments? 
It is important to look at the reasons for implementing the investment allowance in 1962. In introducing the measure on 12th April 1962 the then Treasurer, the late  Mr Harold  Holt, said: 
In proposing the allowance the Government aims to encourage greater investment in our manufacturing industries and thus ensure, in both the short and the long term, a greater volume of both output and employment, lt seeks also to promote greater efficiency in manufacturing production from which should flow the advantages of lower costs which will benefit the Australian consumer and help our industries to seek export opportunities in markets overseas. 
To what extent are the conditions today different from what they were then? Let us analyse the Treasurer's statement. The Government, through its spokesman, the Treasurer, said in 1962 that it wanted  lo  ensure ... a greater volume of both output and employment'. If the Government's arguments were valid in 1962 the situation should be reversed when it suspends the operation of the allowance, in other words, what the Government is apparently now seeking is a decrease in output, which is inflationary, and an increase in unemployment. It is a policy of despair. The Government also said in 1962 when introducing this measure that by promoting greater efficiency in manufacturing production, lower costs would flow from it which would benefit the consumer and help our export markets. Again assuming that the Government's arguments were valid  at  that time, if we reverse the situation now with the discontinuance of the allowance the opposite should happen, namely, higher costs to the consumer and a decrease in our ability to export at a competitive price. 
I would like to make it clear that the Opposition did not accept the reasons given by the Government for the introduction of this measure when it was first introduced and it does not do so now. lt could well be that there were deep political reasons for the introduction of this measure in the first place, lt has certainly been of great financial value to the manufacturing interests and the giants of industry as 1 will show later in this speech, lt is commonly accepted that the investment allowance was the brainchild of the former Minister for Trade and Industry,  Sir John  McEwen. It was introduced in 1962 following the disastrous near defeat of the Menzies Government in 1961 as a result of the 1960 horror Budget. It has also been suggested that the manufacturing interests have been a prime source of funds for the Country Party under  Sir John  McEwen. This n not my suggestion; I would not know whether this allegation was true or not. But the editorial in that conservative newspaper, the 'Sydney Morning Herald', on 22nd February 1971 makes no bones about it. Speaking on the need for a tariff review the editorial said: 
The qualifying remarks are probably a political exercise intended to mollify an increasingly fearful manufacturing lobby that has been a prime source of Country Party funds under  Sir ohn  McEwen. 
In opposing the introduction of the investment allowance in 1962 the Opposition spokesman and shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  as recorded on page 1859 of Hansard of 2nd May 1962 said: 
We believe that this imports into the income tax legislation a new principle and that certain aspects of it should be subjected to criticism. 
Later he said as recorded on page 1860: 
I submit that to add something to that cost by way of a tax concession is in effect to subsidise certain industries which come within the definition of 'manufacturing' provided that plant is installed within a certain period. The Treasurer  (Mr Harold Holt)  did not deny that that was his purpose. . . . 
On page 1861 he is recorded as having said: 
I am not quibbling about whether this sort of thing ought to be done; I am simply saying that if it is thought that certain industries require some encouragement to improve their export trade, if it is believed that life insurance companies ought to devote a certain part of their investible funds to public loans, or if it is felt that certain kinds of investment in particular manufacturing industries ought to be encouraged, then the, Government ought to be honest enough to say that that is the purpose of the measure instead of attempting to shelter behind the provisions of the Income Tax Act. 
How right was the honourable member for Melbourne Ports then and how right is he now? In the case of a non-private or public company, as it is better known, the investment allowance which was granted by this piece of legislation is equal to a direct subsidy of up to 8i per cent of the cost of an item of plant. Applying this to an item of plant which costs $20,000, the investment allowance of 20 per cent of $20,000, namely $4,000, would finally be worth $1,700 to the company after the company rate of 424- per cent had been applied to the $4,000. This would reduce the net cost of the plant from $20,000 to $18,300. The Commonwealth subsidy through the taxation system would be $1,700. 
Let us now look at the total effect of the investment allowance. In the year 1969- 70 - and I quote from the official figures attached to the Treasurer's Budget Speech - the estimated revenue lost by this provision for the manufacturing industry component was $55m. The primary production sector which has not been altered caused an estimated revenue loss of $9m. Turning now to those who were the greatest beneficiaries of this type of legislation, the public companies, and considering the latest year for which statistics are available, that is, the company assessment year 1968-69 or the income year 1967-68, the total investment allowance deduction for taxable public companies amounted to $70,582,000. The amount applicable to public companies with a taxable income of over $2m was $43,575,000. There were 186 public companies - industrial giants, if we like to call them that - who had a taxable income of over $2m in that year and those 186 public companies received 61 per cent of the benefits. The total investment allowance for the private companies in that particular year amounted to $13,983,000. If we add the investment allowance of public companies to the investment allowance of private companies we get a figure of $84,792,000. The amount of that total applicable to the engineering companies was $31,177,000. In other words, 5,053 engineering companies received 37 per cent of the benefits, ls it any wonder that those companies are concerned? Their pockets have been hit. 
It is interesting to note the comments of those who have been affected by this decision to eliminate the investment allowance. The  President  of the Associated Chambers of Manufacturers of Australia,  Mr H.  N. Herford, commenting on 4th February 1971 on the Prime Minister's decision, said: 
Sleight of hand tricks such as the present announcement add nothing to the total knowledge or acceptance of responsibility which all sectors must share if we are to match and overcome the problems of inflation which arc bedevilling the economy. 
The Prime Minister must know that private industry just cannot shut off investments in the way it is pretended will happen from his announcement. Investment will and must go on because it has been committed years ahead. Ail that will happen is that costs will be increased and must have their ultimate effect upon prices. 
What the representative of the manufacturing interests is saying is that what was put in as a concession, a type of backhanded subsidy, at a time when the economy was flat and depressed should be maintained or they will increase the price of their commodities. This is a direct challenge to the Government. I wonder whether it will accept it. I think not. The Australian Labor Party is not opposed to economic assistance to industry. What it opposes is the snide and underhand manner in which this assistance has been given since 1962 when this legislation came into effect. If there are to be economic subsidies to particular industries, then let proper inquiries be made as to which particular industries need this assistance - which companies or which industries need assistance in the national interest and not in the interests of the individual industry. The Tariff Board currently makes these inquiries in regard to tariff proposals. 
When decisions are made after proper inquiry, the extent of the subsidies should be there for all to see, not hidden away due to the secrecy provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act. I should like to know, and the people of Australia - the taxpayers - are entitled to know, how much this legislation has benefited the monopolistic giants of the Australian manufacturing industry since it was first introduced. How much has been gained by means of this ingenious piece of legislation by Broken Hill Proprietory Co. Ltd, Australian Consolidated Industries Ltd, Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd and the other industrial giants? The only people who know are the Commissioner of Taxation and his staff. Is the ordinary taxpayer not entitled to know these facts,, or is he expected just to pay up and shut up and keep on paying? This is the thought that came into my mind when this legislation was introduced. I wondered whether it was the beginning of a move to re-vamp the economy in a method different from that which had been applied during the McEwen era. It is interesting to note that the same arrangement was applied in 1963 to the primary producer sector of the community following the benefits which were given to the manufacturing sector in 1962. Whilst the manufacturing sector has now had its taxation advantage taken away, the primary producer sector has not. This is possibly not an unreasonable attitude in view of the present parlous state of the farming community. The bulk of the farmers will have little use for the concession because, as a result of this Government's policies, they are finding it difficult enough to exist, let alone engage in a programme of capital expansion and development. 
Just how important the investment allowance has been to the industrial giants can be gauged from the published statement of  Sir Colin  Syme,  Chairman  of Directors of Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd. In his half-yearly report which was made yesterday, 23rd February 1971, he said: 
The suspension of the investment allowance has important consequences for  bhp.  These allowances had been a valuable source of cash flow when it was most needed - at the beginning of operations of qualifying new projects. . . . * The direct effects of this company, both from  a  cash and profit point of view, could well be serious. 
How right he is. This investment allowance has been a valuable source of cash flow to his company and a valuable addition to its profits. But the point at issue is whether an industrial giant like Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd should ever have received this type of subsidy in the first instance. How many millions of dollars has it received? No-one will ever know with certainty due to the manner in which this benefit has been given by the legislation which is now being suspended. The statement by  Sir Colin  Syme was made at the same time as it was announced that the company had increased its pre-tax profits by 52 per cent for the half year to November 1970, which will have the effect of increasing its net profit for the year to an estimated $83m. 
On a general basis, a major point for concern should be the extent of Commonwealth assistance to industry through the taxation system. Official figures issued in the annexures to the Budget Speech show that the amount of revenue foregone in 1969-70 through the main taxation concessions is estimated at not less than $282m. The investment allowance accounts for $64m of this total, comprising $55m to the manufacturing industries and $9m to the primary producers. These concessions are made to everyone in a particular category - to efficient industries as well as inefficient ones and whether there is a need for assistance or not. It is a most inefficient method of making what is, in reality, a subsidy payment. The Opposition does not oppose this measure to take away the benefits conferred by section 62aa of the Income Tax Assessment Act. For my own part, I hope that it is not a suspension of the concession but a complete elimination of a concession which should never have been granted in the first place. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate leaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next 5 years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the Slate school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Housing. Is it a fact that the grant made under the ' Homes Savings Grant Act is restricted to eligible applicants who build or acquire a home the total cost of which is less than $17,500, including the cost of the land? Is the Minister aware that it is impossible to obtain a reasonable home in the capital cities for  less than $17,500? Because of this is it a fact that the homes savings grant is not being paid to a large number of young married people who are otherwise eligible for the grant? What does the Minister intend to do to rectify this anomalous situation? 
Mf  KEVIN CAIRNS- It is correct that an upper limit is placed on the value of a house which is the subject of a homes savings grant. Representations have been made from time to time to increase this value. It is also correct to say that payments by the Commonwealth under the homes savings grant scheme have been increasing within recent years. The' honourable member will appreciate that any alteration to the limit in the value of a home in respect of which a grant is sought is a matter of policy. 
Is the Treasurer aware that income tax avoidance is being widely practised by companies and big businesses due to loopholes in the Income Tax Assessment Act? Is he aware that this legal tax avoidance is the cause of a loss of revenue amounting to hundreds of millions of dollars each year? Will he investigate this matter and consider closing the loopholes by appropriate legislation? Does the Treasurer agree that this would be a more positive way of combating inflationary pressures? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister and is supplementary to the questions asked by the honourable member for Shortland and the Leader of the Opposition and to the reply given by the Prime Minister. Will the Prime Minister give an assurance to the House and to the Australian people that he will now cease using the Communist bogey during any future election campaign, a bogey on which his and previous governments have relied so heavily to maintain them in power? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I should like to raise my voice in this House in support of the lower paid employees of the Parliament.  1  think it is about time that the attention of the House, of the Parliament and the Australian people was drawn to what is, in my considered opinion, an iniquitous situation.  1  refer to the pay rates and conditions of attendants employed in this House. They are the lowest paid people who work in this Parliament, and I think it is about time that their case was raised in the proper place, that is, in the Parliament. Here we are battling for conditions. We on this side of the House are battling for improved working conditions for the Australian people. In this very House we seem to have Jet slide the conditions of the attendants who are the lowest paid employees in this House. I should like to give a few figures relating to the rate of pay actually received by attendants, in order to illustrate my point. 
I refer to case No.  1,  which relates to an attendant whose normal gross pay is approximately  $125  a fortnight. He happened to work a little overtime during the period about which I am speaking and he received approximately  $24  for it, which increased his gross pay to approximately  $150  for the fortnight, out of which there were taxation deductions of approximately  $24.  This left him to take home pay of approximately  $125  for the fortnight. He is a married man with children. How can any person live and rear children on  $125  a fortnight? 
Particularly in Canberra, as the honourable member for Wilmot has stated. Case No.  2  refers to an attendant whose gross pay was approximately  $124  a fortnight, from which were deducted tax of approximately  $18  and a payment of approximately  $2  to the hospital benefit fund, leaving him to take home pay of about  $103.  Again, how can a person possibly live in Canberra on  $103  a fortnight? Case No.  3  refers to an attendant whose gross fortnightly pay was approximately  $130,  out of which he had to pay tax of approximately  $17.  He also had to pay about  $4  to the hospital benefits fund in order to protect him in case he became sick. He could not contribute to the Superannuation Fund so he had to insure himself, which cost about  $10.  He lives in a Government home, and he had to pay rent of approximately  $19  which was taken out of his pay. His take home pay was the very fine sum of approximately  $79  a fortnight That was the amount of income on which he had to exist in Canberra. 
Case No.  4  refers to an attendant whose normal pay was approximately  $124  a fortnight. Luckily, he worked a fair amount of overtime in this fortnight, which helped him to survive. If he had not worked the overtime his take home pay would have been about  $105.  This man happens to rent a house in Canberra. He pays rent of approximately  $40  a month. He has  3  children aged  9, 7  and  3  years. How do we expect a man to exist, let alone to live, on a normal pay of approximately  $104  a fortnight? This attendant happens to be a Catholic, but he cannot afford to send his children to a Catholic school, as is his wish. He sends them to a State school. This has taken away from him the inalienable right to educate his children where he wishes. The reason he cannot educate his children at a Catholic school is the lowly amount that is paid to him by this Parliament. 
I turn to the question of the shifts which attendants work. This matter is not widely known, and I think it is time that members of this House and the Australian people knew something about it. Canberra is not all that it is cracked up to be for the lower paid employee. During sessions attendants work a shift of  42  hours a week. In recesses they work a shift of  33  hours a week. Let me take the situation which arose recently. This House sat until  3.15  a.m. These attendants, the bar staff, the refreshment rooms staff and others left Parliament House at approximately  3.45  a.m. and they had to wait for taxis. They had to be back at work at  8.30  a.m. I spoke to one man who told me that he did not even get to sleep, and he had to be back at work at  8.30  a.m. I suggest it is about time that we had a serious look at the pay and conditions of the lower paid people in this House. 
I think I have shown, from the cases I have quoted, that a lot of things need to be considered in this House not only in regard to the higher paid employees but also the lower paid employees. I do not deny the higher paid employees the conditions which they enjoy. They are highly trained men and they do a tremendous job in this Parliament. They are not over paid, and I would not for one moment suggest that they are. But let us be honest; let us also have an honest look at the pay and conditions of the lower paid strata in this House. 
There is one other point I should like to make. It may be said that attendants enjoy other conditions. Let me tell honourable members about some of the conditions, because I suggest that very few honourable members either inside the chamber at the moment or outside it know of the extraneous conditions which attendants enjoy. In my opinion these conditions are not very lucrative to the attendants. Attendants are provided with an allowance of  $8  with which to buy a pair of shoes. Can any honourable member tell me where a person can buy a decent pair of shoes for  $8?  If an attendant wants to buy a decent pair of shoes he has to pay more for them. Where does he go to buy these shoes? He is given a voucher and he has to go to a local firm. I will not mention the name of the firm because it might be classed as advertising. They do receive a  10  per cent discount by going to that firm. The situation that arises - this is what my inquiries have revealed and if I am wrong I am quite happy to be corrected - is that if a person commences duty in February he must wait until the following December to receive that  $8  allowance for his pair of shoes. In the meantime, that attendant must wear his own shoes. 
I turn now to the subject of shirts. These are some of the matters which are not widely known. Each attendant in this House is paid  $12  per annum for the shirts that he wears on duty which he is required to wear on duty. This allowance is paid each June. If an attendant commences duty in August, what must he do? He must buy his own shirts, sweat it out and wait until the following June before he receives his $12 allowance. The argument may be put that an attendant is provided with a suit that he wears on duty. 1 am informed that attendants must wait until such time as a suit to fit them is available and that if no suit is available the attendant must wear his own clothes. When no new suit is provided for an attendant, that attendant must wait until such time as a suit that will fit him is available, even though 6 other people may have worn that suit before that attendant. 
The point that I am trying to make is this: Let us not look at our own condition alone. Let us not look at the conditions which have been 'hardly' won - by that I mean justly won - for other officers in the Parliament. Let us look at the conditions justly and honestly of everyone employed in Parliament House, down to the lowest paid members of the staff that works here. Whilst I am on this subject, I pay tribute to the courtesy, attention and dedication to duty of the attendants who work in this Parliament. 
I wish to raise a further point in this respect. I bring it forward quite seriously, not so much in the spirit of criticism as in the spirit of honest endeavour to try to improve conditions for these people. As far as I am aware in every industrial award in Australia - and those awards have been gained through the conciliation and arbitration courts either by consent or by determination - provision is made that a break of at least 8 hours should occur between the time that a person ceases and recommences duty. I suggest that there is no position in the Commonwealth Public Service for which a salary comparable with that paid to parliamentary attendants is received for which the conditions of employment that apply are the same as those required of parliamentary attendants. I doubt whether the conditions under which parliamentary attendants work would be tolerated under any industrial award in Australia. I ask therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you bring to the attention of the appropriate authorities in this House the case of the parliamentary attendants who are the lowest paid members of the staff of this House in order to try to obtain for them better conditions than they have now. 
A number of girls are employed in this House. I am pleased to see this. Last week, these girls who commenced duty at 9 a.m. worked until approximately 4 a.m. the following day. Is this reasonable? Whilst I am on this subject, I refer to the amenities that are provided to non-members in this House. I bring home to honourable members the state of affairs that applies in relation to the non-members dining room. This dining room is certainly not a spacious affair. As a matter of fact, I believe that the conditions for non-members, including attendants, are shocking to a marked degree when they are compared with industrial conditions as I know them to exist in other branches of the Commonwealth Public Service where I was employed for 34 years. During the parliamentary session, it is not possible to obtain a grill in the nonmembers dining room. I think that this is a ridiculous and childish situation. What hope have our attendants and the other lower paid members of the parliamentary strata when even the  Clerk  of this House and his counterpart in the Senate are so poorly treated in regard to salary by this Government that their salaries are well below those paid to executive permanent heads in the Commonwealth Public Service. If the  Clerk  of the House of Representatives cannot be paid at the same salary level as his counterparts in the Commonwealth Public Service, what chance has the parliamentary attendant to obtain salary justice? 
In the short time available, I wish to refer to a situation that has arisen in regard to a subject on which I have spoken before in this House, that is, taxation. In today's Australian Financial Review', there is an article written by Maximilian Walsh headed Tax Loophole Reopened'. I will give the reason for quoting from this article in a moment.  Mr Walsh  refers to the case of the Commissioner of Taxation of the Commonwealth of Australia versus Casuarina Pty Ltd. This article states: 
Friday's decision - 
That was the decision by the Full High Court handed down last Friday:   . . opens a major breach in the 1964 amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
These amendments were introduced on the recommendations of the Ligertwood Committee. 
The most important of these concerned the definition of 'public' as distinct from 'private' companies. 
Friday's High Court decision suggests that at least one major loophole has been found in the amendments which enables the spirit of the Ligertwood Committee recommendations to be avoided. 
For the Parliamentary Draftsmen it appears to be a case of 'back to the drafting board'. 
I emphasise those words. The article continues: 
On the condition, of course, that the Government of the day wants to alter the legislation. 
I have grave doubts whether it will alter the legislation. If I had sufficient time, I would tell the House why. The article continues: 
As it took the Government  3  years to translate the Ligertwood committee transactions in this area into legislation, about another  3  to find  a  convenient loophole and then a further  4  before it was finally judged by the High Court, it can be seen that Friday's High Court decision left  a  sizeable hole in our  tax laws. 
Since entering this Parliament, I have raised my voice consistently in the cause of amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act to close up these loopholes. On 2nd September 1970, I quoted the words used by the Second Commissioner of Taxation, a very competent gentleman. At a public meeting in May 1960, he stated that ' these tax avoidance schemes are a social evil'. If the Second Commissioner of Taxation went as far as to make that statement publicly I have no doubt that these thoughts would have been put on paper to the Government in the form of recommended changes to the legislation. On 8th May 1970 I addressed a question to the then Treasurer, the honourable member for Wentworth,  Mr Bury,  who has since been either promoted or demoted - I do not know which - and he gave an answer which suggested that I should tell him what to do. As recently as 6th April 1971 I addressed a question to the present Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and in reply he finished up by saying: r  ask that if he has any information  that is  still residual in his head - 
I do not know what he means by that -  will he please tell me and  I  will do all  that I  can to follow it through. 
I again suggest, as I suggested to the previous Treasurer, that if he does not know and he does not ask the Commissioner of Taxation he should either resign or have a bit of guts and introduce amending legislation to close up these loopholes. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I am pleased to see that, at long last, the Government has decided to introduce this piece of legislation which will close a gap in the income tax legislation which, as disclosed by the statement delivered by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  has existed since this legislation was enacted in 1964. It is true that the gap has existed since that time. My criticism is that the Government has waited so long to close the gap. 
The Treasurer has stated in his speech that the taxation revenue at stake is substantial. This is no secret. It is well known to the highly qualified legal practitioners who are paid to advise on means of tax avoidance. It is well known to the highly skilled senior officers of the Taxation Office whose duty it is to advise the Government on these schemes of avoidance. My criticism is directed at the Government because it has waited so long to close this gap which has existed since 1964. On the admission of the Treasurer himself, in his statement, the tax revenue at stake, even at this stage, is substantial. How much revenue has been lost in the period since 1964 to the present time because the gap was not closed when it was known to exist? 
In a speech that I made in this Parliament last night, I said: 
Since entering this Parliament I have raised my voice consistently in the cause of amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act to close up these loopholes. 
I intend to restrict my speech to a short time because I have given an undertaking to the Government Whip that I shall do so. This matter can be debated at a later stage at much greater length. On 18h March 1970, in my maiden speech, I said: 
I would like to draw a contrast between the attitude of the Government in these matters with its attitude towards legalised tax evasion. It is a fundamental principle of equitable taxation that the contribution of each individual to the State should be equated to his ability to pay. This principle was first enunciated by Adam Smith centuries ago. Few would deny that the real burden of taxation now falls much more severely on the person who can least afford to pay it. This Government has shown a complete inertia against changes in the taxation laws. 
I wish to refer now to a speech that I made in this House on 2nd September 1970. In that speech I said: 
There was not one word in the Treasurer's Budget speech about any scheme by the Government to prevent plans by taxpayers for legalised tax avoidance. I am certain that there would be recommendations in existence for alteration of income tax laws to prevent these legalised methods of tax evasion. I am fortified in these thoughts by a statement made by a Second Commissioner of Taxation as far back as May 1969. He publicly stated that these tax avoidance schemes were a social evil. 
I interpose that this Second Commissioner of Taxation is a highly skilled and highly competent person. He is a man of complete integrity. My speech continued: 
If a Second Commissioner of Taxation went so far as. to make this statement publicly I have no doubt that these thoughts would have been put on paper to the Government in the form of recommended changes in the legislation. 
In addition to those speeches, I have asked some questions in the House on this subject. On 8th May 1970 I directed a question to the then Treasurer, the present Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bury)  regarding certain schemes of taxation avoidance. I did not restrict my question to the scheme of taxation avoidance under discussion now. I did not receive an answer which satisfied me. The answer given by the then Treasurer,  Mr Bury,  was this: 
It is open under the law for any citizen to operate the laws as he can best to his advantage. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  then interjected: 'Oh?'. The then Treasurer continued: 
Within the law. I would say that this is not confined just to companies or the particular people to whom the honourable member has referred. A great number of individuals, some of whom may be in this House, use every device they can to lower their tax bill. 
I do not know where he got that information from. He continued: 
The Commissioner of Taxation and the taxation machine generally are constantly on the alert to prevent loss to the revenue by various tax dodging devices. 
I agree 100 per cent with his statement. He continued: 
Naturally these are* being invented all the time by very ingenious gentlemen and it is not possible to keep up with their pace. The taxation law inevitably moves a little behind events. 
Now we come to the part of the answer to which I take exception. It is this: 
However, if the honourable member has any good practical suggestions and examples which we could bring in quickly I should certainly be very delighted for the information that he can provide. The general position is understood by all. But chatter about the general position does not help the  job  of collecting necessary taxation. 
On 6th April 1971 I asked a question along similar lines of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  about general schemes of tax avoidance and not just the one under discussion. I received a similar answer to that which 1 had received from the former Treasurer. 1 should like to place on record a part of the answer to which I took exception and also the manner in which that answer was given. He said: 
Knowing that the honourable gentleman has a history as a tax investigator- 1 
I am proud of the fact that I served for 34 years in the Taxation Office - 
I ask that if he has any information that is still residual in his head, will he please tell me and I will do all that I can to follow it through. 1 will conclude by saying that it is not my function to advise the Government. The Government has a highly skilled, highly trained and very competent body of men in the Taxation Office whose duty it is to advise the Government. I believe that they do this. It is not for me as a member of the Opposition to suggest these procedures to the Government. They are well known in the Taxation Office. If the Treasurer and the Government are sincere in these matters they have only to ask these skilled officers in the Taxation Office. I am certain that they get the right advice. I hope that as this particular taxation avoidance device is now being closed, although 7 years too late, the Government will not restrict itself to that. There are many other taxation avoidance devices which are well known to the skilled officers in the Taxation Office. They were well known to me before 1 left the Taxation Office and I suggest that action be taken at a very early date to close the gaps now. Let us not have a repetition of the present situation where the loss of 7 years revenue is a cost which has to be borne by people who can least afford to pay it. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Has his attention been drawn to the comments of the Acting Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Lyons  - who* is a supporter of the Minister's own Party - in today's issue of the 'Canberra Times' in which he praised the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Bob  Hawke, for his help in attempting to end the marine stewards' strike in Tasmania? Can the' Minister reconcile: these statements by the  Acting  Premier of Tasmania with his own statements and those of the Prime Minister, the former Minister for Labour and National -Service and the Minister for Shipping and  j  Transport, as reported at. page 1665- of Hansard of 20th April .1971, which were made in an attempt to denigrate the ACTU, Mr: Hawke and the trade union movement for ^political advantage? Has his attention also... been drawn to the statement of the Acting Premier of Tasmania that the report that he would call for Royal Australian- Air Force and Naval assistance for Tasmania was 'arrant nonsense'? Is it not a fact that . these and other strikes are a result of the failure of the Government to amend, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to make  it  more workable? 
 I have not spoken in the debate on the motion that the house adjourn since I have been in Parliament. But on this occasion I intend to speak because I am concerned at the contempt which the Government is showing for the parliamentary institution. The Government is showing complete contempt for this institution. 
I should like to quote factually in respect of a particularly complex matter. Three Bills have been introduced into the House - the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1971, the Income Tax (Withholding Tax Recoupment) Bill 1971 and the Income Tax (Bearer Debentures) Bill 1971. I challenge the honourable member who has just interjected to speak on them if he is capable. These measures were introduced between 4.22 p.m. and 4.45 p.m. on Wednesday, 28th April 1971. The House sat until 12.59 a.m. on the Thursday. On Thursday, 29th April 1971, the House met at 10.30 a.m. and sat until 2.16 a.m. on the Friday. 1 repeat that these are 3 complex measures. Few honourable members in this House could debate them intelligently, and that includes the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden). 
At least I class myself as sufficiently expert, having served for 34 years in the Taxation Office in the technical field. I think that answers the honourable member who interjected. I regard it as my duty as a member of the Parliament to spend as much time as possible in the Parliament to understand the measures that are dealt with here. As I pointed out previously, we sat until 2.16 a.m. on Friday. I had discussions with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and arising from those discussions and discussions with the Treasurer it was arranged that senior officers of the Taxation Office would come to Parliament House this morning in order to discuss the measures with us. It is the first occasion since I have been in this Parliament that measures have been discussed in depth with us. At 11 a.m. today 2 high level officers of the Taxation Office - one of the Second Commissioners and the Senior Assistant Commissioner (Legislation) - came over and discussed these measures in depth with us until 12 noon. Yet, the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  stood and announced - I shall not quote him exactly - that we were caught on the hop on these measures. We were not caught on the hop on theses income tax measures. I defy any honourable member in this 
House, without expert assistance which is available from senior officers of the Taxation Office, to understand completely and absolutely these measures and, here and now, I challenge any honourable member on the Government side, other than those who have been briefed by senior members of the Taxation Office, to rise and debate them. I throw out that challenge here and now. 
My information is that these 3 complex Bills will be discussed some time tomorrow, possibly through the early hours of the morning until 6 a.m. It is bringing the parliamentary institution into disrepute to expect honourable members to discuss and debate Bills of this nature intelligently in those circumstances. It makes a travesty of our position in this Parliament. As my friend, the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  reminds me, the Government will use the guillotine. In other words, come what may, complex and important legislation will be guillotined through the House. The Government is treating this Parliament with contempt, and in so doing it is denigrating the principles of democracy which I firmly support. 
As the honourable member for Riverina says, it is treating us like parliamentary peasants and I object to that sort of treatment. It is not of our doing that the Parliament will not sit next week. We should be sitting longer. The Government has decided for some reason or another that we shall not sit beyond this week. I do not know whether it is because of the onset of winter. I felt the cold winds coming down the street this morning when I walked from the Hotel Kurrajong to the Parliament. To my mind that is not sufficient reason to close down the Parliament. The Opposition rightly feels that it is being treated with contempt. I finish on this note, and it gives me pain to say it: For all the use that this Government thinks that we on this side are, I may as well send my vote by post and not even come here. 
I move: 
That the time allotted for the debate be extended. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Swartz's)  be agreed to. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has outlined in brief the stated purpose of this measure. He has explained in some detail certain of the objections of the Opposition. To put this matter in its proper perspective, and for the information of the House, I feel that I should put in some detail a description and origin of the withholding tax, its original intention and the amount of revenue that has been raised from it. The dividend withholding tax is a flat rate of tax imposed on dividends paid by Australian resident companies to nonresidents. This tax came into effect on 1st July 1960 and is still being applied. A general rate of 30 per cent is charged for residents of countries with which Australia does not have a double tax agreement. The rate is 15 per cent when a double tax agreement applies to a non-resident. 
The revelant legislation for both dividends and interest payments is contained in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936- 1969, as updated, in Part III, Division Ha as set out in sections 128a to 128e. These sections determine liability for dividends and interest withholding tax. Part VI, Division 4, sections 221yj to 221yy- do not ask me why it is called yy; it seems to have a ludicrous hint to it - contains the administrative provisions for collection of these taxes. 
I should like to dwell for a little while on interest payments. Since 1st June 1968 a withholding tax on interest received by non-residents has been charged at a flat rate of 10 per cent, regardless of the double tax agreement. The withholding tax has been charged whether interest was paid by a resident or a non-resident, or by the Commonwealth or any Commonwealth or State authority. I am reliably informed, from sources within the Parliament, that the Government has found that the interest withholding tax has not been as successful as was anticipated in taxing non-resident interest earners, since most of the tax burden appears to fall on the Australian borrower. It may be of interest to note that on 13th December 1970 the then Prime Minister, the Right Honourable J. G. Gorton, who possibly may come back, announced plans for amending the interest withholding tax provisions. He announced them; it was not the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  And when I say he 'may come back'. I do not mean in 1972. I mean that he may come back sooner than 1972. These amendments were introduced in the Parliament early in 1971 and they will take effect, according to the legislation now before the House, on 1st July of this year. The former Prime Minister gave the following reasons for amending the tax laws when he introduced this legislation: 
Firstly, overseas lenders were increasing interest rates above the normal level, knowing that Australia would retain 10 per cent of interest payments or else require the borrower to meet the tax. Australian companies were bearing most of this additional cost as they did not have access to loan funds from abroad through parents or associated companies. This situation made it more difficult for Australian companies to participate in ventures on equal terms with overseas companies. 
The second reason given by the former Prime Minister was as follows: 
The proposed amendments will exempt Australian owned companies from payment of withholding tax made on overseas borrowings for predominantly- 
And I emphasise the word 'predominantly' - 
Australian owned ventures or for financing a substantial Australian equity participating in a venture. 
No specific definition of 'substantial Australian equity' or 'predominantly Australian' venture was given at that time. However, it is given in the legislation which is now before the House. Whether the definitions given will have the effect of achieving the anticipated result in my view is open to doubt. At the same time, the then Prime Minister proposed that section 126 and section 128B of the Income Tax Assessment Act should be amended so that interest paid overseas on overseas borrowings made by means of a public issue or widely offered private placement of bearer bonds would no longer incur penalty rates or be subject to withholding tax. 
It is admitted that these amendments should - I underline the world 'should'; to my mind it possibly should be 'could' - assist local companies and, in particular, they could enable the Australian Dairy Industry Development Corporation to make greater use of bearer bonds on the international money market. The Government's aim in amending the legislation apparently is to encourage overseas investment to continue in Australia whilst, at the same time, providing improved opportunities for Australian participation in developmental ventures requiring overseas capital. I should like briefly to speak about the original intention of the tax. When it was originally introduced, the major reasons given were as follows: Firstly, such a system brought Australia into line with other countries in regard to taxing, interest and dividends paid to non-residents; secondly, since the withholding tax was deducted from the amount of dividend or interest before it was paid to the non-resident, the Government was assured of collecting this revenue. However, prior to 1st July 1960 collection of this revenue was much less certain, as the Government depended upon nonresidents lodging income tax forms in the same manner as residents and this was not always done. I think I would be safe in saying that I know that as a specific fact. 
Thirdly, there was pressure by business interests, who believed that a withholding tax would give the certainty of a fixed rate and remove confusion about Australian tax laws and hence encourage foreign investment in Australia. I have grave doubts about that. That matter has yet to be established. When the dividend withholding tax was originally introduced, an option was left open so that non-residents could elect to have their dividends assessed on the then previous system by lodging an Australian income tax return form. Where this course was followed, a refund was made of the excess of withholding tax over the tax ascertained on assessment. I would suggest that for administrative reasons this provision for election was repealed on 1st July 1967. 
I would like to quote some of the amounts of revenue raised. In the year 1960-61 the dividend withholding tax collected amounted to $ 11.9m out of a total tax receipt of Si, 851m. In 1961-62 the dividend withholding tax was $ 16.2m out of a total tax receipt of $2,835m. In 1962-63 the dividend withholding tax was $ 17.9m and the total tax receipts were $2,882m. In 1963-64 the dividend withholding tax was $15. 9m and the total tax receipts were $3,220m. In 1964-65 the dividend withholding tax was $16m out of a total tax receipt of $3,788m. Honourable members will notice the sudden increase that is shewn. In 1965-66 the dividend withholding tax was $ 17.2m and the total tax receipts were $4,187m. I shall pass over a few years, because I think I can afford to, and come to the year 1970-71 when the dividend withholding tax was $40m and the total tax receipts were approximately $7,000m I quote as my source the 'Commonwealth Finance Bulletin No. 4 at page 10 and No. 8 at page 12. My colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  will give some further details of this measure, which I am sure he will handle in an admirable manner. 
I have been informed that I have only 5 minutes in which to make my speech. So I will be able to make only a few short comments. I will start by answering the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson).  I think it is appropriate that I should do so on behalf of the Opposition because I am rather unhappy about some of the questions which he raised. The honourable member for Casey was Minister for Air at the time of the VIP aircraft debacle. If my memory serves me correctly, the then  Senator Gorton,  who became Prime Minister, who subsequently became Minister for Defence, and who may become Prime Minister again for only a short period, decided that the honourable member for Casey would be relieved of his portfolio. I do not know what the reason was. I was not here at the time. But I am surprised that the honourable member asked to be supplied by the Government with information - he is a prospective Minister in the new Ministry that looks like being formed - so that he can be better informed. I am rather surprised at that because we on this side of the House seem to be so much better informed than are honourable members opposite. The honourable member does not even know about this matter. I am not claiming that this is the fault of the honourable member or that he should not have the information. This is just one of the things that happen. 
I will now get down to the basis of the Bill. I do not know whether I will be able to discuss the Bill because I have just been informed that by decision of the Government I have to conclude my speech at 10.24. This gives me 3 minutes in which to speak. It would be impossible for me to raise the many matters that are important for me to raise on behalf of the Commonwealth Public Service unions that I represent. In other words, this Government has frustrated every representation that has been made. By its action I believe the Government has alienated hundreds of thousands of votes. I am absolutely ashamed that I have been stopped from speaking. I have notes which show that we are better informed than are honourable members opposite. However, in view of the fact that this debate is to conclude at 10.24 p.m. - the gag has been moved and the guillotine will be applied - so I will close by directing attention to the Government's hypocrisy. This Bill was introduced on 15th October 1970, the amendments were circulated on 5th May 1971 and now the Government wants to rush this legislation through in less than 1 hour. This is plain hypocrisy. 
I am informed that unless the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who is the shadow Treasurer, wishes to speak - 
I see. I am informed that we can speak on the second reading of this Bill until 10.30. 
Yes, I have 2 minutes. This is a serious business for members of the Opposition and it should be a serious business for supporters of the Government. It is serious to the extent that even under this Bill the people in the defence forces are being denied the opportunity to have their point of view put, and that is creating a grave injustice. The amendment that we would have liked to have moved to this Bill but which we were precluded from moving by Government action is, "That clause 7 be postponed'. This seems to be a simple amendment, but we were denied the opportunity to explain what it meant. This is not my idea of democracy. The whole Parliament and the people of Australia should be absolutely ashamed that the Government is being run in this fashion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Messages from the Governor-General recommending appropriations announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
1 support in principle the reasons which prompted the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee but I disagree with the method of implementation. I propose to move an amendment that we replace the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee with the following recommendation: 
That unless otherwise ordered the House shall meet for the dispatch of business on each Tuesday at half-past 10 o'clock a.m., on Wednesday at half-past 2 o'clock p.m. and on each Thursday at half-past 10 o'clock a.m., rising at 6 o'clock p.m. on each Thursday. 
I wish to move an amendment, notice of which I gave earlier, in the following terms: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 
Standing order 40 be omitted and the following standing order be inserted in place thereof: 
Unless otherwise ordered, the House shall meet for the despatch of business on each Tuesday at half-past ten o'clock a.m. and Wednesday at half-past two o'clock p.m., and on each Thursday at half-past ten o'clock a.m. rising at 6 o'clock p.m. on each Thursday'. 
The purpose of this amendment is to substitute an earlier starting time on a Tuesday and also to have a set finishing time on Thursday. In the original recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee it was proposed that we meet at 2.30 p.m. on Tuesday and Wednesday and at 10.30 a.m. on Thursday. Apparently the purpose for that was that it has been the normal practice for Cabinet to meet on Tuesday. I suggest that it is possible for Cabinet to arrange its activities to meet on a day other than Tuesday. The bulk of members of this House have to fill in time on a Tuesday until 2.30 p.m. when the actual functioning of the House commences. 1 believe that the activities of this House could be better dealt with if we set an earlier starting time on Tuesday and fixed the time of rising on Thursday at 6 p.m. This would enable honourable members who can go home on Thursday night to make their arrangements accordingly. 
I suggest that another matter which could be considered and which is not actually in my amendment is the way to gain a greater period of time for business by curtailing the time taken for meals. What I suggest - and this is something which would be within the province of the House to determine - is a curtailment of the time which is allocated for meals. The li hours which is allocated for lunch is, in my opinion, too long and the 2 hours suspension at night is certainly too long. That is another factor which could be taken into account when we are considering ways to improve the orderly running of this place. I think that most honourable members will appreciate the purpose of the amendment. I do not intend to take my full time to speak on the amendment and I accordingly commend it to the attention of members of the House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Is the amendment seconded? 
That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question. 
I have no intention of replying to the red herrings drawn across the trail by that archconservative, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  who was trying only to divert attention from the unholy mess caused by his own Government. 1 did agree with one thing the honourable member said. I will deal with that later in my speech but it is the only thing on which I agree with him. 
In speaking to the Budget, it is important to attempt to ascertain in the first instance what the Government was seeking to achieve with its Budget. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in explaining the Budget strategy said: 
We see it as a critically important objective of our policy to combat the inflationary forces now running in the economy. 
Apparently, the overriding economic purpose of this Budget, as explained by the Treasurer, is to control inflation. The Government apparently saw the problem mainly as 'a powerful upthrust of costs'. They are the words used by the Treasurer. Apparently the Government was also concerned at the possibility of demand pressures, particularly from a potential sharp rise in consumer spending. The budgetary method proposed by the Government to slow down the rate of price increase was to restrain total demand by a pruning of expenditure proposals from Commonwealth departments and to effect increases in certain direct and indirect taxes. The Government was hoping to ensure that the general demand type inflationary pressures would not be superimposed upon and exacerbate the present cost pressures. I concede that certain of the expenditure proposals by Commonwealth departments have been pruned. Whether they have been ruthlessly pruned, as stated by the Treasurer, is open to doubt. I point out that the estimate of Commonwealth expenditure for 1971-72 is still considerably higher than that for 1970- 71. Commonwealth expenditure in 1971- 72 is estimated to rise by 11.7 per cent. This compares with an increase of 14.9 per cent between 1969-70 and 1970- 71. 
This Budget has imposed increases in the rates of personal income tax and company tax. Customs and excise duties on petroleum products and tobacco have been increased. The next question that arises is whether the Budget is likely to achieve the desired effect. It seems to me that this Budget is unlikely to succeed in reducing the rate of inflation significantly whilst it may further slow down the rate of growth of the economy and worsen unemployment. This Budget does nothing to combat cost inflation directly. In fact, this seems to be impossible to do via a Budget of the type put forward by the Treasurer. All that it does is to try to ensure that demand inflation does not also arise. 
This Budget has even worsened the problem of cost inflation by raising indirect taxes and charges, for example, telephone and postal charges. This has the effect of directly raising the cost of living and, to a lesser extent, costs for businesses which are passed on, further spiralling the inflationary effect. Despite the Budget, cost inflation is likely to continue at recent rates in view of the fact that wage increases will be claimed by groups of workers who feel they have been left behind by the past wage and price inflation, and as businesses raise their prices to cover increased costs and try to restore or even increase their profit margins. This cost inflation might be slowed down if the level of demand fell sufficiently drastically but the level of unemployment necessary would probably be intolerably high. It is difficult to say how far demand will fall following this 1971-72 Budget. The Government was apparently concerned that the increase in retail sales between the March and June quarters of 1971 could be the beginning of a spending spree by consumers with the unusually high savings that they have built up. It is possible, however, that consumers wish to maintain a higher rate of savings in view of the problem times that are ahead and do not intend spending all their savings in the near future. However, this Budget may tend to confirm the pessimistic feeling of businessmen who have already indicated that their capital expenditure will be lower in future months. 
The Budget Speech made no reference to the fact that most of the demand indicators were pointing downwards in recent months. It referred only to retail sales which may be rather erratic in their short term behaviour. I might add that recent increases in retail sales have been attributed by some observers merely to increases in prices and population rather than a change in consumer spending patterns. I think it is worthy of note that the impact of the tax increases will not tend to be felt until the latter half of 1971-72. so this Budget will not have any deflationary effect in the first half the year. It could have such an effect in the latter half of the year but then only towards the very end of that half, as taxation assessments are not due for payment until after 1st April 1972. If the pessimistic demand indicators which have been ignored by this Government continue in their present direction unemployment might then rise to unusually high levels, and this is a real danger. I suspect that this is the real intention of the Government, namely, the creation of a pool of unemployment. I would like to re-echo the words which have been used in days gone by about another Prime Minister: *You will be awfully cool in Billy's pool'. 
Now to some specific criticisms of the Budget. There is only one point on which I agree with the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  and that is the extent of Commonwealth assistance to non-government schools. I would like to quote from a statement made in this 
House by the then Minister for Education and Science on 13th August 1969 when introducing the States Grants (Independent Schools) Act. He said: 
It is our policy - that is the Government's policy - to seek to work out ways of assisting independent schools so that, relying on their own efforts and supported by governments, they will be able in the future to provide places for that proportion of the school population which in the past has sought education in independent schools, lt is also important that the independent school system be able to develop in the future, not only in quantity but also in quality, more or less in line with the development of government schools. 
The Minister further stated that the proportion of the school population which in the past has sought education in these independent schools amounted to nearly one quarter of the school population. He also said at that time that there were ominous signs of an impending contraction in the independent school system and that the Government favoured the continuation of both government and non-government independent schools on both educational and economic grounds. He continued: 
There are economic advantages to the general taxpayers for if all children now enrolled in the independent schools were to transfer to the government schools ... at least an additional Si 30m a year would be involved in the running costs of the government schools. 
What was the amount that the Commonwealth Government paid out during the year to 30th June 1970 under the States Grants (Independent Schools) Act? A mere $24,272,000, compared to a saving of at least $130m on the maintenance of the independent school system. I have already quoted the remarks of the then Minister for Education and Science when introducing this legislation in 1969. But what did the then Treasurer say in the 1970 Budget? He said: 
The Commonwealth continues to make a significant contribution to the expansion and improvement of Australia's education services. 
What additional contribution did he make to the non-government schools? Not one cent extra in the per capita grants. And what did the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  say in 1971 concerning education? The word education' was not even mentioned. Education, possibly the most important item of expenditure in Australia, did not rate one mention in the Treasurer's Budget Speech of 1971. 
One of the problems that concerns me is the high dropout rate of secondary school students. I would like to quote some figures and contrast the dropout rate from the richer independent schools, the State schools and schools in the Catholic system. Of the children who commence secondary school, of those going to government schools only 25 per cent go right through to their sixth year: of those going to the Catholic schools only 32 per cent go through to their sixth year; while some 81 per cent of the pupils of the other private schools go right through to their sixth year. Those other private schools are what 1 class as the richer independent schools and the case that I am making today is not for them. I am presenting a case for the poorer section of the independent school system - the Catholic school system. I would like to quote some further facts and figures. These apply particularly to New South Wales and I think they show the magnitude of the effort which has been organised in the Catholic school system. In 1970 in New South Wales alone there were 535 Catholic primary schools teaching 123,000 children. There were 182 Catholic secondary schools teaching 65,000 children. There were 3,670 primary school teachers and 2,628 secondary school teachers. This gives us a total of 717 schools where 189,242 pupils were being taught by 6,298 teachers, a not inconsiderable education effort. It is an educational venture, I suggest, which cannot be said by anybody to be a splinter group activity for a divisive minority. 
I would like to point out that the total enrolment in all schools in Western Australia in 1969 was 210,000 odd. This figure makes a useful comparison with the Catholic school enrolment of 196,000-odd in New South Wales in the same year. The total enrolment in all schools in Tasmania in 1969 was only 93,079. I repeat that the Catholic education involvement in New South Wales is a very substantial one. The proportions of children in New South Wales in 1969 who were being catered for by the various education channels are as follows: Government schools, 77.13 per cent; other non-government schools, 3.24 per cent; and Catholic schools 19.63 per cent. For pupils in the final 2 years of schooling the proportions were: Government schools, 69.4 per cent; Catholic schools, 19.69 per cent; and other non-government schools, 10.93 per cent. It is perhaps significant that in the area in which the greatest skills and resources are required and in which the largest strains on teachers are felt the non-government schools are making their greatest proportional effort. 
An interesting aspect of the Catholic school population situation in New South Wales is the change in the distribution between, primary and secondary classes. Figures available for the 5-year period between 1966 and 1970 show a growth in the enrolment in secondary schools and a drop in the enrolment in primary schools. In the Archdiocese of Sydney primary school enrolments went from 76,523 in 1966 to 73,066 in 1970, which was a considerable drop, while secondary enrolments rose from 36,978 to 42,780. It is a fact that secondary school pupils cost more to educate than primary school pupils. The cost of the education system therefore would have increased by this additional factor. Notwithstanding that, the Government made no additional grants to the independent school system in the 1970-71 Budget nor has it made any additional grants in this Budget. 
It should also be noted that there is evidence of a drop in the number of children attending Catholic schools. I do not think that this would be economically sound for any government. I think it would be more economically sound for a government to keep open the schools which educate children at a cost lower than that at which a government school can educate them. It is educationally sound that the Government should support variety and flexibility in schools, especially as that would allow the citizens the democratic right to choose the type of education they want their children to receive. I say in all honesty that the parents of children attending Catholic schools are not asking the Government to prop up a moribund school system. All they are asking for is sufficient of the public moneys of which they make a significant contribution to keep alive and improve a vital educational undertaking which provides a very fine service to a large section of the State's population. I trust that the Government will take note of my remarks on this issue. 
The Government stands condemned for its attitude to pensioners and to the little man. If it showed the same concern for the underprivileged sections of the community as it does for its friends in big business there would be no cause for complaint. Since coming into this Parliament I have consistently drawn the attention of the House and of Ministers, including the Treasurer and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  to the inequalities in the taxation system. After much prodding by myself the Government finally announced the closing of a gap in a tax avoidance scheme. On 28th April of this year the Treasurer announced that it was the Government's intention to close a particular tax avoidance gap, but that intention has not been put into practice so far. I hope that the Government has not had second thoughts about the matter. I hope that its big business friends have not got at it. 1 noticed recently an indicator of how tax avoidance schemes have an effect on revenue. It was brought out during evidence given to the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange and reported in the Press on Monday of this week.  Mr Dowling,  a director of the Patrick Corporation, is reported to have said in evidence he gave to the Committee that although the profits which were made by his own company amounted to $5,732,000 by various tax devices and avoidance schemes the amount of tax paid was only $34,000. That is all the tax that was paid on an income of $5m-odd. It is up to the Government to close up this type of gap and the other gaps that exist in our taxation laws. If it does not do so, it should not be in government. 
My comments will be restricted to our taxation structure. The present system of taxation in Australia is not only regressive but reeks of inequities and inefficiencies. The whole system of taxation needs extensive reform. The recent history of tax reform in Australia has been to look at the taxation structure in a piecemeal fashion. No real effort has been made in the last 30 to 40 years to have a decent look at the taxation structure, to look at it in depth and to get away from preconceived ideas on taxation. The basic taxation structure has to be reformed. It is a tenet of taxation practice that taxation should be paid in accordance with a person's ability to pay. This was the principle advocated by Adam Smith. It is a principle which in Australia is honoured in the breach. In Australia today taxation is paid by those who can least afford to pay it. This is a result of the taxation system. 
There is only one efficient method of taxation and that is income tax. The reforms over the last 20 years have not reached the crux of the problem. Efforts at reform have been only to remove specific anomalies or inconsistencies. One of the causes of this has been that at any time a committee has been set up it has been tied down with limited terms of reference. What is needed in Australia is a royal commission of the type that was set up in Canada, the report of which was released in 1967 after 4 years of work. This is the only way in which there will be any real reform of the Australian taxation structure. It is only by setting up a royal commission of this type that the radical steps can be taken to design an efficient and equitable taxation system. 
One of the prime terms of reference for such a royal commission should be that the royal commission should recommend a system of taxation that has a far greater reliance on income tax and less reliance on invisible means of taxation such as sales or commodity taxes. It is this type of system that is at the present stage commencing to be implemented in Canada. It took 4 years for the Canadian royal commission to complete its inquiry. It brought its report down in 1967. That was followed by a White Paper brought down by the Treasurer, followed by parliamentary committees which at this stage are only bringing down their final reports. It is only by doing something of this nature, looking at the problem in depth, that we will eventually get a taxation system which will be equitable and beneficial to the country. 
It is true that any attempts at comprehensive tax reform will bring problems in attempting to alter the way. in which people look at their present system of taxation. I wonder what would be the attitude of the average Australian if a report were brought down which advocated the complete elimination of what are known as concessional taxation deductions, in other words, the deductions allowable, when submitting taxation returns, for a spouse, for children, for medical expenses, and for life assurance and superannuation premiums. There would probably be a howl from the community if it were suggested. But I suggest that the most equitable form of taxation would be one that did not allow any deductibility for those items. I suggest that the most equitable form of taxation would be to. have an economic system whereby an allowance was paid to a wife in her own right instead of an amount being deductible through a taxation system. 
I have taken the trouble to extract some figures on the cost to revenue of the various deductions for taxation purposes. These are based on the latest figures that are available - those for the year ended 1967-68. The cost to revenue of the deduction for a spouse is $126m. I would like to see the amount of this deduction and more allowed by way of a ' direct cash payment to a wife. The amount paid could be taxable. In that way the amount would be used where it is needed most, and if a wife had a separate net income the amount paid to her would be taxed and portion of it would come back into revenue. This is not as radical an idea as one would first think when looking at it. 
The same would apply to the deduction which is presently allowable for children. At the present time the estimated loss of revenue if the deduction were disallowed is $88m for the first child, $12m for the student child, and $76m for the other children. I would prefer to see that deduction disallowed and the amount paid out in additional child endowment where it is needed most. One has only to work out the advantage to a taxpayer on an income of $20,000 a year of the deduction for his wife compared with the amount which is tax rebatable in respect of a wife to the taxpayer who is on an income of S3.000 or $4,000 a year to see that the person on the smaller income gets very little back - and he is the person who needs the rebate most. In that way we can see that our taxation system is weighted heavily against the person most in need and is weighted in support of the person least in need. 
We have a typical example of that in the allowance which is made for life assurance premiums. A person can claim up to $1,200 a year as a tax deduction for life  assurance premiums. Would the average person on an income of $4,000 or $5,000 a year be able to afford to pay $1,200 a year in life assurance premiums? In other words, what is happening is that by virtue of our taxation system we are subsidising the person who is least in need of assistance when I feel that the prime aim of our economic system and our taxation system should be to bring about a redistribution of income and a redistribution of wealth. Our existing system does not do that. . 
In regard to the matter of capital gains, I was pleased to see that now that the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  is out of the Ministry he is supporting the introduction of a tax on capital gains. This is something I have been supporting in this place since I came here, as well as the closing of the loopholes which have been allowed to exist in the taxation system. I think it. is time that the Government, even as an interim measure, got together some of the abilities that are available in the Parliament and some of the well known abilities that are available within the Public Service and within the Taxation Office to bring about a more equitable system of taxation, to close the loopholes that are in existence and to bring about a system whereby taxation is paid according to one's ability to pay it. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Customs and Excise - 
Proposed expenditure, $34,879,000 
Department of Primary Industry 
Proposed expenditure, 578.646,000 
Department of Trade and Industry 
Proposed expenditure, 39,641,000 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is the right honourable gentleman aware that his former Cabinet colleague and the former Treasurer, the honourable member for Wentworth, acknowledged last Thursday that inflation had 'largely passed beyond the power of the Government to do anything decisive about it'? Did  Sir James  Vernon tell the New South Wales Institute of. Management last Thursday that the Government's current deflationary restrictions on demand were irrelevant to the current inflationary situation and would fail to contain inflation even if carried to the point of 'gross unemployment'? Does he recall that on 15th September the 'Sydney Morning Herald' summarised 'the whole underlying strategy of the Budget' as 'creating a pool of unemployed to moderate wage demands and price increases'? Will the Prime Minister now acknowledge with the former Treasurer and the former  Chairman  of the Committee of Economic Inquiry that the Budget strategy was misconceived and should now be changed? 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What was the cost of overtime (a) inhis Department and (b) in each Division of his Department during the year 1970-71. 
1 oppose the Income Tax Bill and support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean). 
The Australian taxpayers' most common complaint is that he is one of the most highly taxed middle income earners in the world. This is true despite the fact that statistics show that a smaller proportion of our gross national product is collected in taxation revenue in Australia than in any other comparable countries. The United Nations Year Book of National Account Statistics published in 1969 shows the following figures which represent the percentage of personal income tax to gross national product of which Australia is the lowest: Australia 8.9 per cent; New Zealand 12.9 per cent; United States of America 16.3 per cent; Canada 12 per cent; United Kingdom 15.9 per cent; West Germany 18.8 per cent; France 19.3 per cent; and Belgium 17.8 per cent. 
One of the greatest faults of the present Australian system of taxation is the rating because it creates the thought in the minds of people that there is no incentive to work harder, that there is no purpose to be served by working harder and striving for a promotion and making more money, that there is no purpose served by taking a second job or working overtime or that there is no purpose served by increasing production and making more money. 
The reason for these thoughts being in the minds of people is a direct result of the present taxation system which causes a disproportionate amount of each additional dollar earned going directly to the tax man. 1 would like to quote the rates from the existing Act to illustrate this point: For every dollar earned in excess of $4,000 but not exceeding $4,800 additional tax is levied at the rale of 31.9c; for $4,800 but not exceeding $5,600 the rate is 34.5c and so on until we get to a figure of $10,000 but not exceeding $12,000 where the rate is 50.6c in the dollar, in addition to which one has to add an additional 5 per cent which is levied under this Bill. The tax scale has the direct effect of acting as either an incentive or a disincentive to increase production, lt means, in fact, that a person may decide that it is not worth while working harder merely to further fill the Treasury's coffers, and this is an unworthy climate to cultivate, particularly at a time when economically we are being told that production must increase if we are to prevent undue rises in the cost structure. 
This is a problem which is not common to Australia and it is worth while to look at the situation as it applies to other countries and compare it with the Australian situation. On an income of $10,000 a year an Australian is paying 29 per cent in income tax compared to 27 per cent in the United Kingdom, 15 per cent in the United States of America, 11 per cent in South Africa, 19 per cent in Canada and only 11 per cent in France. At the level of $25,000 per annum the Australian taxpayer is paying more than 50 per cent of his total income in tax whereas his American counterpart is paying only 30 per cent and, in France, only 22 per cent. The effect of this high level of taxation is the destruction of the incentive to work harder. Whilst most taxpayers grumble or groan as their tax rates go up, they reach a point of no return when their share of each dollar earned is less than that which the Government receives. On the current rates this point is reached at the $10,000 taxable income level. For each dollar earned in excess of $10,000 taxable income the Government receives more than half. What greater disincentive could there be to increased productivity? lt is the responsibility of the Government to undertake a comprehensive study, taking into account all factors, in order to arrive at a more equitable system of taxation rates. The Federal Government is the only body with the necessary resources to undertake such a task. I suggest that the only reason why this type of study has either not been undertaken or, if it has been undertaken, has not been publicised, is that the results would be an embarrassment to those who are presently responsible for the present iniquitous system of taxation rates. Let me make the position quite clear: This Government is still slugging the middle income earner despite the attempt made in the 1970 Budget to alter the Australian taxation structure. The middle income earner is still getting a raw deal and will continue to do so whilst this Government remains in power. It is practical common sense to maintain an incentive for the middle income earners. The Government would be better advised to have a long look at the whole taxation structure rather than doing what it has done in this Bill presently being debated. All that the Government has done in this 
Bill is to maintain the present regressive tax rate and to increase the levy from  2i  per cent to 5 per cent. That is a straight out increase in personal income tax of  2i  per cent right across the board. 
The Government possibly could be forgiven for maintaining, and even increasing, its present tax rates if the people were receiving a reasonable return by way of social services benefits. Could anyone in all honesty say that the pensioners of this country are receiving an adequate pension? What about the pockets of poverty amongst the aged, the sick, the widows and the deserted wives? There was a stage in this country when we could be satisfied with our social services, but that situation does not apply today. If we look at our international counterparts we find that we fare rather badly by comparison. In 1968, according to the United Nations 'Yearbook of National Accounts and Statistics', for each $1 of taxation revenue collected in Australia the net return in cash social service benefits was only 22.5c. This compared with 45.4c in France, 40.4c in West Germany, 33.76c in Canada, 24.9c in the United Kingdom and 24.7c in New Zealand. These figures represent cash social service benefits and do not take into account non cash benefits including the free health scheme in the United Kingdom and the near free health scheme and the free dental care scheme for children under 16 years of age in New Zealand. In Australia we have neither of these benefits, apart from a poorly subsidised and inefficient health scheme which operates with rising contribution rates. 
All in all the Australian taxpayer receives a very disproportionate social services benefit from the present regressive and inequitable taxation system. Our sister country, New Zealand, was faced with a similar problem but its Government had the courage and foresight to do something about it. In April this year New Zealand's taxation rates were revised comprehensibly to obtain a more realistic and equitable structure. This Government should do something positive about the Australian tax structure. The time for doing it is now, not some time in the non foreseeable future. 
This call for action is not confined to members of the Opposition only. In February 1971 a national taxation con ference was held in Canberra to consider the problems and the inequities of Australia's existing taxation laws. Organisations represented at that conference included the Associated Chambers of Commerce of Australia, the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, the Australian Council of Employers Federations, the Australian Farmers Federation, the Australian Society of Accountants, the Chartered Institute of Secretaries, the Federated Taxpayers Associations of Australia, the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia, the Law Council of Australia and the Taxation Institute of Australia. This conference called for urgent action to restructure the existing taxation laws.  Individual unions and the Australian Council of Trade Unions have done the same thing. Here we have a united call for action by all sections of the community, yet the Government has done nothing other than keep the same tax rating system and increase the rates in this Bill by a further  2i  per cent. 
Once again 1 make the call for a royal commission into the Australian tax system and for effective action to be taken to block tax loopholes. Hundreds of millions of dollars have been lost to government revenue by the lack of action by this Government. Earlier this year the Government indicated that it proposed to close up 2 of the tax loopholes. These were in respect of the status of public companies and the technique known as dividend stripping. But so far this legislation has not been brought before the Parliament. 1 hope that the Government still intends to proceed with the legislation. But there are other loopholes still crying out to be closed. To name but a few, there are still tax lurks in regard to the acquisition of loss companies, and tax havens for companies are still being availed of in the Bahamas, Liechtenstein, Norfolk Island and in other areas. I am certain that the Taxation office administration wants these loopholes closed. The second Commissioner of Taxation,  Mr P.  J. Lanigan, in a paper he delivered at the conference of the Taxation Institute of Australia in Canberra in May 1969 described these tax lurks as what they are - 'a social evil'. How right he is. This social evil has been allowed to thrive under this Government. The only answer of the Government so far is to increase the tax rates by a further 21 per cent. 
In my maiden speech in this House on 18th March 1970 I spoke of the need for a capital gains tax. Government supporters and the then Treasurer and present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  threw up their hands in horror at this socialistic thought. How times have changed. The former Attorney-General, the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  now advocates it. The  President  of the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges,  Sir Cecil  Looker, now wants a capital gains tax. He said that a capital gains tax would end the uncertainty and ambiguity of certain sections of Australian tax law. He said there was a real and pressing need to put share transactions on a sensible and realistic basis and that at present the vagaries of the Income Tax Act do not encourage and may well discourage genuine investment. He said that the whole area of taxation in Australia urgently needed Government attention and that certain aspects of the income tax law demanded clarification. He also said there was need for a thorough and complete review of Australia's tax structure, and it is urgently needed. I echo his sentiments. Here we have diverse sections of the community all advocating the same thing. We have the representatives of big business on the one hand; we have representatives of the trade union movement on the other hand. I agree on this occasion with both. I fully support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  that the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted because it does not comprehensively restructure the rate schedule and increases the tax payable by certain individuals on a fiat percentage basis. I commend the amendment to the House. 
I ask the Treasurer: Is it a fact that there is a continuing flow of hot money into Australia from overseas sources? Did the amount available last week from dealers on the short term money market amount to $88Sm? Is this an increase of $45m from the previous week? What action does the Treasurer intend to take to prevent our tottering economy from being further upset? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that heavy expenses are being incurred by many people who are required to undergo treatment by a registered physiotherapist on the direction of orthopaedic surgeons and other doctors? Is he aware that the heavy cost of this treatment by registered physiotherapists is not covered by the Government's health scheme, thereby causing considerable financial hardship to a large number of people? Finally, what possible reason could there be for not including in the Commonwealth health scheme as a Commonwealth benefit treatment by registered physiotherapists on the direction of a registered medical practitioner? 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we, citizens of the Commonwealth, earnestly request our Government to: II) increase, immediately, Australia's contribution to the refugee appeal by 10 million dollars. 
press for a just solution to the conflict, so that the refugees may return to their homes. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As a member of the lower deck, I wish to say a few words of appreciation and thanks to  Mr Turner  on my own behalf and, I am certain, on behalf of those new members of the Parliament who came here in October 1969. The aspect that impressed me when I came into the Parliament was its extreme efficiency. It is a saying - and I think a true saying - that it is the captain who runs the ship, lt is true to say also that any ship will founder when going through troubled waters unless it has good and skilled captain. 
In my experience in the Parliament since 1 have been here - it is only a short time - I have noticed that the parliamentary institution itself has had a few holes put in it but that they seemed to have been plugged effectively, no doubt because of the skill of the captain. By captain' I refer to the  Clerk, Mr Alan  Turner. On behalf of the newer members of the Parliament,I express appreciation to  Mr Turner  for the courtesies that he extended to us when we arrived here as raw recruits. He organised training classes for us. He organised classes of instruction on how the Parliament operates. I can truly say that, without that training and without that assistance, we could not possibly have done the job for which we were elected. On behalf of the newer members of the Parliament,I say thank you. 
I think that I can also say thank you on behalf of the often unsung section of the parliamentary staff, that is, the attendants and the other lower ranked members of the staff of this Parliament. I had fairly close association with these people when I discussedwith  Mr Turner  some problems relating to the wages and conditions of House attendants. I received very good advice from  Mr Turner  in this regard, and I appreciate it. As a result of that advice, certain action was taken. The attendants of this House and the lower paid section of thestaff of this House did receive justified salary increases. On their behalf,  Mr Turner,  I say thank you. 
I also express appreciation for a few well chosen words of advice that I received from  Mrs Turner  very early in the piece, during a function when  Her  Majesty the Queen was here.  Mrs Turner  told me that if I followed her husband's advice I would not go very far wrong. I think that we would all doubt whether anybody in the House could go wrong if he followed  Mr Turner's  advice. I wish you a very well earned retirement and a happy and holy Christmas for yourself, your wife and family. I wish you a prosperous New Year. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
How many companies were registered in Norfolk Island as at 30th November 1971. 
How many of them were local companies trading on Norfolk Island. 
Can he supply details for each company, other than local companies, regarding (a) its name, (b) the date of registration, (c) the nature of its business, (d) the name, address and shareholding of each shareholder and (e) the name and address of the public officer. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the United Kingdom domiciled company Dalgety Ltd has recently announced a one for 5 bonus share issue to its shareholders? Is it also a fact that the disclosed net profit of Dalgety Ltd for the 6 months ended 31st December 1971 increased by $542,000 to $1,508,000? Is it also a fact that including the tax provision and excluding the depreciation provision, the real profit for the 6 months was $3,496,000? Is it also a fact that Dalgety Ltd was one of the pastoral finance companies which received a large share of the $30m emergency financial assistance granted to wool growers, both directly and indirectly through wool growers who were in debt to them? Finally, in view of the disclosed financial result of Dalgety Ltd, how can the Prime Minister justify his Government's policy in assisting companies such as this? 
I have only a short time to look atthe statement made by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  It seems to me to be a gilded bait handed out in pre-election times. The Treasurer said in his speech: 
As part of this investigation it will look closely at the Actuary'sand the Board's proposals. I expect it to complete its task later this year. 
As a representative in this House of the Commonwealth Public Service organisations I have something to say on behalf of the members of those organisations whom I represent. In my view this is a bait which is being dangled before their eyes as an election issue. I hope that the Treasurer will do something positive in this field before the next election. There is a great deal of discontent within the Commonwealth Public Service because of the attitude of this Government to the Commonwealth superannuation scheme. Throughout the Treasurer's speech appear the wordsin the view of the Actuary'. It is about time that this Government took account of the people who contribute to this superannuation scheme. I refer to Commonwealth public servants. It is about time that their interests were considered. 
The surplus disclosed by the Actuary for the year ended 30th June 1967 is $14,779,000. It is now 1972. The Treasurer states that it was no fault of the Actuary that the surplus is only now disclosed. The computer is blamed. We are Jiving in a computerised age. If this is the best that the Government can do in a computerised age, if it cannot get a positive result between 1967 and 1972, God help the people of Australia and God help the people in the Commonwealth Public Service. I am most dissatisfied with this statement and I speak,I think, on behalf of the Commonwealth Public Service organisations. I wish that I had had prior notice of the statement so that 1 could have given it more thought and consideration. 
-I am not here talking for my constituents alone. 
The former Minister for Health would be well advised to stay quiet in view of the ineffectual way in which he handled matters affecting health and is now handling immigration matters. He is attempting to distract me but he will not succeed. I just wish to register a protest on behalf of the members of the Commonwealth Public Service and the unions in the Commonwealth Public Service at the manner in which this Government has treated them. I know the feeling in the Service. This Government has treated the members of the Commonwealth Public Service in cavalier fashion. 1 register a protest at this stage and, at a later stage when this matter is debated. I hope that other members on this side of the House also will register their protests at the cavalier fashion with which the members of the Service have been treated. I will not say that the Government has been contemptuous of them because it would be unparliamentary if I said that but I will say that it is tantamount to it. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
I wish to raise a matter concerning the system of living allowances paid by this Government to the holders of Commonwealth scholarships. I would like to quote from a letter I received from one of my constituents. It. reads: 1 am writing to you to express my concern and disgust at the means test generally and in particular, as it applies at the moment to so called Jiving allowances to holders of the Commonwealth Scholarships. 
My eldest son . . .is the holder of such a scholarship and at the time of writing is about to commence Economics III at Sydney University.  1  am aware that the means testis assessed on ones gross income but I would ask you to consider the following facts. 
This is a letter to me and I am presenting the case to the Government. The letter continues: 
My normal gross income = $4,109 per year with O.Time included = $6,931 per year 
When one considers the following facts however, I venture to suggest that a very different situation appears. 
My wife has no separate income and is wholly maintained by me. My second eldest boy . . . is about to start a University Course and will receive a small living allowance from the Education Department. I have a young daughter at Primary school and an older daughter who, after working as a shorthand/typist for two years, has decided she wants to matriculate and is going to full-time technical college at our own expense. 
As an example, my taxable income for the last financial year was $4,815 and- 
He names his son - has been told he will receive as a LIVING allowance, $40.70 per annum. I realize that asthe party you represent is in opposition, there is not a great deal you can do but 1 personally trust that state of affairs will change at the coming elections. 
May I say  'Hear,  hear' to those comments? The letter continues: 
When one reads of  Mr Wentworth's  concern about the means test (this after 23 years in office) and hears daily comments on the penalties for thrift foisted on our aged pensioners and speaks to friends returning from such war losing countries as Western Germany where social services are so superior, one does not know whether to laugh or cry. 
I will appreciate it greatly if, as busy as you are-- and I am - you express one citizen's views on the iniquity of the means test to the Government in Parliament.' 
The writer of the letter concludes on this note: 
In conclusion let me point out also, that there is not much incentive to the Australian worker to pay extra taxes from long hours of overtime in order to exclude himself and family from benefits for which they have toiled. 
I agree 100 per cent with his sentiments. I hope that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  will look into this matter and do something about it. That letter is an expression of opinion held by a person in my electorate and it is symptomatic of the general feeling throughout the whole of the Australian electorate. This Government has failed. 
Let me point out another aspect of the living allowance, and it is an important one. At Sydney University it is a fact that the bulk of the students doing medicine are the sons of doctors. There is a percentage who are not. It is ludicrous to see the position where the sons or daughters of ordinary working people, due to a situation similar to this, do not receive a living allowance when a high percentage of the sons of doctors do receive the allowance. There is a reason for it. The reason is the formula which is worked out to establish the living allowance payable to holders of Commonwealth scholarships. Not only doctor's sons and daughters but those of other professional people are receiving a living allowance because their parents are in a position to doctor their income tax returns, if I may use that pun. They doctor their returns by allegedly legal means - by devising schemes such as the setting up of a bogus company so that their income is sufficiently low to enable their sons and daughters to receive a living allowance under the Commonwealth scholarship scheme. Yet the people who deserve to be in receipt of the living allowance are not getting a fair crack of the whip. They are not receiving the justice to which they are entitled. We have a ludicrous situation. I feel this matter should be highlighted not only in this House but throughout the Press of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 11.9 p.m. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 10th December 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control. 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of beinginconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth Increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. ' 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money is being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is truly responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I would like to make one comment about clause 25 (1.). It seems anomalous to me that by virtue of this clause the Commissioner may create positions in the Service. There is nothing in that clause to say that he requires the approval of the Public Service 
Board. Yet under clause  25(2.)  the approval of the Public Service Board is required to determine the salaries for those positions. From my own experience in the Public Service - I spent  34  years in it prior to coming into this Parliament - that same situation does not apply in the Public Service. In nearly every department with which I had contact the approval of the Commonwealth Public Service Board was required, under me current Commonwealth Public Service Act, before a position could be created. If approval of the Commonwealth Public Service Board is not required in this situation for the creation of a position why should its approval be. necessary in determining salaries? 
I say without fear of contradiction that the average Commonwealth public servant has no faith in the impartiality of the Commonwealth Public Service Board. That has been shown time and time again by the definite steps taken by the Board to frustrate every salary claim put forward by every industrial organisation or association that represents the employees within the Service. I register my disapproval of this clause, particularly that part which refers to the approval of the Public Service Board. It will create within this teaching service the same sort of discontent that already exists in other areas of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
I want to ask the Minister a question. Does the deletion of clause 28 (3.) mean that the definition of 'efficiency' in the Commonwealth 
Teaching Service Bill which is now before the Committee is exactly the same as the definition of 'efficiency' as set out in the Commonwealth Public Service Act, namely, that aptitude for higher positions is not a determining factor in the determination of efficiency? 
I am pleased that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has accepted the amendments. One of the greatest bones of contention within the Commonwealth Public Service has been that the promotions appeal committee has not been the final authority, as it should be. One of the greatest hurts done in the Service has been the thought in the minds of Commonwealth public servants that they are appealing from Caesar who makes the promotion to Caesar who determines the appeal. 1 commend the Minister for his action. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 30 to 32  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 33,  (4.) Nothing contained in, or done under, this section prevents the grant of leave of absence of any kind to an officer is respect of the whole or any part of a period referred to in sub-section (1.) of this section. (5.) Except by reason of a grant of leave of absence of any kind with pay, an officer is not entitled to salary in respect of a period of absence from duty in accordance with this section. 
I refer to Division 6, particularly to paragraph (e) of sub-clause (10.) clause 35 which relates to the disciplinary powers of the commissioner in relation to misconduct. Subclause (10.) reads: 
For the purposes of this section, an officer shall be taken to have been guilty of misconduct if, and only if- 
hewas guilty of any disgraceful or improper conduct, whether as an officer or otherwise; 
I ask the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to inform me what this means. Why should an officer be deemed to have been guilty of misconduct if he was guilty of disgraceful or improper conduct not, of necessity, only as an officer but otherwise? What does that mean? What is improper conduct? I should like a definition, an interpretation or an opinion from the Minister of how this provision is to be applied. This is something that is trying to thrust into the life of a teacher limitations which are not imposed upon anyone in any other sphere of employment. What is disgraceful conduct? What is improper conduct and who will define it? What rights are to be given to a person who is charged with or has been found guilty of misconduct for something that is, in the opinion of the Commissioner, improper? What does the Commissioner class as improper? I could class something as improper which is not improper to the commissioner or vice versa. I should like to know and the Committee is entitled to know what is improper conduct when it is committed by a teacher as an officer or otherwise. This is a very wide and embracing provision. It proposes to take away from a teacher what I consider to be an unalienable right, namely, the right to be able to conduct himself outside the school or outside his normal affairs as he wishes. A teacher could be charged with improper conduct because of the colour of his eyes, the type of clothes he wears or for coming to school in shorts, depending upon the Commissioner. How is this to be interpreted? I think the Committee is entitled to know. It is a very wide provision and I would like to hear a further discussion of it. 
Reverting to the comments made by the Minister in regard to clause 35 (10.) (e), I have checked this out and it is true that subclause (10.) (e) is pretty well word for word with what is contained in the Commonwealth Public Service Act. I do not think that this of necessity means that it is correct. I shall not move this as an amendment, but I think that consideration should be given to inserting an adequate safeguard in sub-clause (10.) (e) which at present reads:  &lt;e) he was guilty of any disgraceful or improper conduct, whether as an officer or otherwise; 
I can understand the reasons for this provision but I think that an adequate safeguard should be placed in it, such as inserting the words 'he was found guilty by a court of law of any disgraceful or improper conduct'. I think that this provision gives too wide and discriminatory powers to the person concerned who finds an officer guilty. After all, codes of conduct change. At one stage adultery was considered to be improper conduct. I certainly do not condone adultery but the way things are going in our present generation it almost seems to be the in thing. Codes of conduct have changed since the Commonwealth Public Service Act was first framed. This Bill gives very wide powers to the commissioner to say that, in his opinion, an officer has been guilty of disgraceful or improper conduct. There should be adequate safeguards in subclause (10.) (e) to protect the rights of members of the teaching service. 
My question, which is directed to you,  Mr Acting Speaker,  concerns the facilities for visitors to Canberra to inspect Parliament House. By way of explanation I would like to inform you that at about 10 o'clock this morning I was present at the entrance to Parliament House and watched as a large number of people were not allowed into Kings Hall due to the congestion already there. Their comments on not being allowed into their Parliament were most enlightening. I understand that the reason why these people were turned away was that there were only 2 guides on duty to cope with the visitors. I ask you to ensure that these conditions are not allowed to continue and that more guides are provided to allow our constituents to inspect their Parliament. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  confined himself to the attitude of the Opposition to the 
Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1972 which covers the provisions of the amendment to section 26a of the Act. I will confine myself largely to the attitude of the Opposition to the Income Tax Assessment Bill 1972. The Australian Labor Party supports this Bill because it sets out to remedy weaknesses in the present law which have enabled taxpayers to avoid large amounts of income tax which it was intended that they should pay. We on this side of the House oppose what is commonly called 'legal tax avoidance'. Any measure which has the effect of closing up these gaps has our full support. It should not be necessary for me to point out that if the liability for taxation is escaped by one section of the community it has to be borne by another section of the community. Who do we find has to bear that additional load? It is that section which can least afford it. The wealthier section of the community is transferring its share of the burden to the poorer section. In elementary justice this situation should never be allowed to prevail. 
As it is, the present taxation legislation is heavily loaded against the average and middle income group section of the community. There is no way out for them. It is a case of pay up and shut up. The tax is taken out of the wage earner's pay packet before he even receives his income. But this is not the case for the man with big income and capital to go with it. He can employ skilled legal advisers and accountants to devise ways and means of minimising his taxation commitment. In fact this practice has almost been given a degree of respectability. The previous Treasurer, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  gave it respectability when, in reply to a question from me on 8th May 1970 in regard to taxation avoidance, he said: 
It is open under the law for any citizen to operate the laws as be can best to his advantage. 
The then Treasurer was sharply in contrast with one of his own top administrators,  Mr P.  J. Lanigan, Second Commissioner of Taxation, who in a paper he delivered at the Conference of the Taxation Institute of Australia in May 1969 described tax avoidance as what it is - a social evil. Rather than condone tax avoidance, this 
Government should be doing everything it can to stamp it out. Why has the Government taken so long to stamp out these and other tax avoidance schemes? Since I first became a member of this Parliament, in October 1969, I have in speech after speech in this House pointed out the manner in which taxation avoidance has been practised. In all of those speeches I have been specific about these taxation avoidance schemes. I have named them and categorised them. This Bill is now attempting to close up the loopholes to which I first drew attention some 2 years ago. If the Government had taken notice of me then, when I first raised this subject, the Commonwealth Treasury would have gained many more millions of dollars from that section of the community which could afford to pay it. 
The Income Tax Assessment Bill 1972 which is now before the House deals with 3 methods of tax avoidance: Firstly, dividend stripping; secondly, private companies masquerading as public companies; and thirdly, the practice of share trading companies manipulating the value of their trading stock to obtain the benefit of the rebate under section 46 of the Income Tax Assessment Act and also to make tax free a proportion of their income. By way of illustration it is necessary to explain the devious nature of these tax avoidance devices. The practice of dividend stripping was officially revealed for the first time in August 1971 when the High Court announced its decision in the case of the Federal Commissioner of Taxation and the Adelaide based merchant banking group, Investment and Merchant Finance Corporation Ltd. I can understand the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  saying that in South Australia it is a vexed question. Apparently South Australia did not restrict itself to using section 26a to its best advantage, because it obviously used other sections of the Act also, as other States do. 
The facts of the case to which I have referred were that in 1963-64 the Corporation, which was a money lender, an underwriter and a share dealer, bought 70 per cent of the shares of another company called MacGrenor Investments Ltd for $86,504. This latter company had $122,000 accumulated profits available for distribution to shareholders as dividends. 
MacGrenor Investments Ltd then declared a dividend of $81,900 payable to Investment and Merchant Finance Corporation which was virtually tax free. The reason it was tax free was that it was subject to a rebate under section 46 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. To complete the scheme Investment and Merchant Finance Corporation in the following year sold its shares back to the people from whom it bought them - -MacGrenor Investments Ltd - for $21 and then claimed a loss of $82,931. When the Commissioner of Taxation disallowed that loss the Corporation appealed to the Full High Court which unfortunately - I say 'unfortunately' advisedly - upheld  Ms appeal.  That completed the cycle of the stripping of the dividends. This is the reason why this legislation is being brought in. 
The type of transaction which I have just mentioned has not been an isolated one. It has been availed of by some of the biggest share trading companies in Australia. During the course of the inquiry by the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange h was established that Patrick Corporation, an extremely large share dealing organisation and merchant bank, had paid only $7,400 - a minimal amount of income tax - on its profits of $S.6m. That is a farcical situation. Many other large finance companies were able to achieve a similar result. One can only guess at the total loss of revenue which has eventuated from this type of transaction. This Bill has the effect of closing the gate after the horse has got out. But closed it now is, I hope. However, the question to be asked is: Why has it taken the Government so long to close up this type of loophole? Why have people who can ill afford it been forced to pay a higher rate of tax to make up for revenue losses caused by financial corporations juggling their incomes? Let the lesson be learned now. Whenever a loophole appears the Government should close the gap by legislation immediately and not wait for the court to confirm that a loophole exists. It takes years for a case to come before the High Court and in that time millions of dollars of revenue, which could be put to much better use, is lost. The pensioners of this country could have benefited years ago from a further increase in their pensions if this additional revenue had been collected. 
As it is, the lost revenue has found its way into the pockets of those who need it least, and the needy have suffered. 
A similar situation applies to private companies masquerading as public companies. The Bill now being discussed seeks to close a gap which was revealed when the High Court disallowed an appeal in the case of the Commissioner of Taxation v. Casuarina Pty Ltd. This decision disclosed a gap in income tax legislation enacted in 1964 following recommendations of the Commonwealth Committee on Taxation in 1959-61, known as the Ligertwood Committee. It relates to the statutory definition of a public company. It was intended by legislation enacted in 1964 that companies which were in a real sense private companies should be taxed as such. However, the loopholes were soon exposed, and skilled taxation consultants set about taking advantage of them. The tax revenue involved was substantial, as was admitted by the Treasurer in a statement to this House on 28th April 1971. But once again, the same tortuous process was followed. Instead of immediately bringing in amending legislation to close the gaps, the normal processes of the law were followed - years of waiting, years of procrastination, with millions of dollars of lost revenue. 
My remarks about what could have been done with the revenue lost from dividend stripping techniques apply with equal force to the revenue lost from this type of tax avoidance scheme. There are still many other areas of tax avoidance about which nothing is being done. I name but a few. The purchase of loss companies, with resulting tax saving, is still a flourishing racket. Tax havens are still allowed to operate. Norfolk Island is a case in point. At 30th November 1971 there were 1607 companies registered on Norfolk Island, and the numbers are growing every week. These companies were set up with only one purpose in mind - tax avoidance. The thing that galls the average taxpayer is the inconsistency of the Government's attitude. The little man who overclaims medical expenses or some other deduction is made an example of, is taken to court and fined; but the big man or financial corporation is allowed to get off scot free. It is no wonder that the average Australian has lost faith in this Government. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. By way of preamble I inform the Minister that 1 have with me a bill sent to an age pensioner by the Central District Ambulance Service in Sydney for 5122 covering 2 return trips between Lidcombe Hospital and St Vincent's Hospital, a distance of about 12 miles. Is the Minister aware that this type of expense is completely beyond the capacity of any age pensioner to pay? Will the Minister representing the Minister for Health draw the attention of his colleague to this unnecessary drain on a pensioner's meagre resources? Finally, will the Minister urge his colleagues in the Government to have ambulance services provided free for pensioners? 
There can be no doubt that manufacturing industry will welcome most of the changes being made to the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act in encouraging increased research and development in Australian industry. To a great extent the changes have been advocated by industry itself, practically ever since the scheme began in 1967. If ever there is to be any criticism it must be to question the fact that the Government felt it necessary to let the current legislation run its full course of 5 years before introducing changes that industry has been advocating for at least 3 of those 5 years. 
The Opposition also welcomes the changes. They do not go far enough in at least one respect which I shall come to later, but as far as they go they are satisfactory. There is no question that industry must develop a considerable concentration on research and development so that products will be improved, new products developed and new technology established. These things are important to the welfare and the living standards of the Australian people. Good products of Australian manufacture will hold their place in the Australian market and safeguard employment. If good enough they will break into export markets, where innovation and new technology can bring important rewards. 
There is some urgency for Australian industry to make headway in innovation and technology, because we are at present, and have for the past 25 years or so, been paying people in other countries quite handsomely for doing it for us. The fact that we have been buying the results of the efforts of others is now costing us in excess of $60m per year. This is a lot of money and I would hope that we will soon see evidence of some return for the public money now being spent in these grants, by way of that payment ceasing to grow and eventually shrinking considerably. Further evidence must be looked for by way of a growing return from the sale overseas of the results of our own innovation and our own technological development. On this question of results for the money we are spending I think that it is worth asking the Government that it pay close attention to this. I know that the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board in its annual report does, from time to time give some indication that results are being achieved. In Appendix D of the report of the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board for the year ended 30th June 1971 details of improved products and processes have . been given. But I wonder whether these, represent only the success stories that people are anxious to tell the Board. Outside- of this, it could well be, as it appears to be to me, that if one matches the rules- the main rule being that one should spend, more money on research and development than one gets as a grant irrespective of what work is done - what results does one get?. 
I am not suggesting that the scheme be converted into one of payment by result. To the contrary, there is no doubt that there is a lot of value in having a simple administrative arrangement- and one that leaves to a company the decision as to the best avenues and best prospects for it to pursue in research and development. What I am asking for is some better information in the future on the results being achieved - on the gains that are being made in return for the very large outlay. The impression I have at the moment is that the success of the "scheme is being measured only by the amount of money it is costing without some proper concern for more meaningful results. In saying this I do not object to the amount spent for this purpose. Indeed, I deplore the somewhat surprising action of the Government in making an overnight decision' to cut general grants from 50 per cent to 35 per cent of eligible expenditure as . compared with that of a couple of years ago. I think that it is worth while looking into the question of whether we are spending enough. We know that in Canada, for example, in not dissimilar circumstances to our own, the  government spends many times more money per year than we do. I think that the figure for grants of this kind - government payments to industry - is somewhere in excess of $80m per year in Canada, whereas we are contemplating something like S80m over  5  years. 
I suggest that the Government, when this Bill is passed, should not then rest on its laurels for another  5  years as it has done in the past. This is an issue which should be thoroughly investigated to determine whether the policies now being followed are sufficient. It could be that additional policies are warranted and with this I agree. 1 understand that in the United States of America more than half of the research and development carried out within industry is, in fact financed by government. We are only at the beginnings in this country of having the Government's own research and development needs - defence, communications and other areas - carried out within industry. There are great advantages in having this work done in the same area which will in due course be manufacturing the eventual products or equipment. 
One of the aspects of the present scheme in which the Government has made some change - in my view not sufficient change - is the requirement that research and development should be in charge of a professionally qualified person. I note that some flexibility has been introduced into determining whether a person is professionally qualified, but this, in my view, does not go far enough. 
The honourable member for Lang recently quoted a letter from a manufacturer whose company has a good record in innovation and in technology development, but which cannot obtain grant assistance because its efforts are based on practical experience and know-how, without the need for professionally qualified control. I would like to quote from another letter received by me and which is also germane to this subject. The letter reads: 
As you already know my major concern with this legislation is for the area covering the qualifications of the person in charge of the I R and D- 
That is industrial research and development -  for a company. I therefore refer to paragraphs 25, 26 and 27 of the Right Hon. J. D. Anthony's second reading speech. 
I think that Parliament must decide whether the Act is aimed at encouraging worthwhile research and development effort in industry, or at full employment for qualified technical people, and on the strength of these three (3) paragraphs it does read like a 'qualified technical people's protection' Bill. 
I add that I agree with this comment from my reading of the Bill. The letter continues: 
For the point I make is this, that the best person to direct I R and D in some areas is not necessarily, and I stress that word, an academically qualified person. 
If I may make this small point at this stage, I once heard it said of a university degree that a university degree does not of itself make an ordinary person superior but it should make a good person better. With those sentiments I wholeheartedly agree. The letter goes on: 
The type of I R and D undertaken by this company- 
The writer is referring to his own company -  requires fairly intimate knowledge of, amongst other things, gearing in all its usual forms. 
The average university graduate would spend no more than about 120 hours, three (3) industrial weeks, studying this subject. I think you see how ludicrous it would be for Parliament to assert that such a person is more fit to direct I R and D in this company than I am with my years of informal study and practice. It is somewhat akin to asserting that a person who has learned the alphabet at university is, simply because he learnt it at university, a better playwright than William Shakespeare who never attended university at all. To be perfectly frank I regard a university graduate as having only a very basic understanding of this specialist field and would very much doubt whether such a person would have a knowledge of this field to the same depth as the most junior detail draughtsman in our office, simply because he has not had the same exposure to the subject I know this from two points of view. As I have told you before, I have attended university, and, while I did not complete the course, I do know something of the extent of curricula in these places. Secondly, I have many times been able to inform and teach university graduates in the field in this particular subject, so that I know my knowledge to be superior to that imparted by universities. 
I don't want you to think I despise university graduates: I don't. I simply point out that their courses of study are necessarily very much general purpose affairs, touching many, many subjects at no very great depth - no man can be an expert in all fields. Industry on the other hand is tending more and more specialist. So that a man having completed a university course and having chosen a specialist field very often finds he still has years of study and practice ahead of him before he becomes in fact a specialist. Now it would be absurd to imagine that only university graduates  are capable of such specialist study and practice and it is for this reason, that I assert that the Government's chosen measuring stick of academic qualification for recognition under the act is, or could be, quite artificial and inaccurate. 
A fairly obvious solution to this dilemma presents itself to me. The Government has set up a board to administer this act and, because no changes appear to be proposed for it, seems happy with this administration. Surely the board could be given discretionary powers in this area such that qualified people could be admitted as now without question. However, where a company feels that, although their I R and D director is not qualified, he is a fit and proper person for the task, they could request that the Board examine their director, calling on, qualified examiners as necessary, to establish his suitability. By this means worthwhile I R and D could be encouraged, while worthless, or potentially worthless efforts could be discouraged. 
This seems to be a self-defeating exercise in the case of a company which has demonstrated its ability to make gains in this field and which wishes to expand its efforts. It stands oddly against the fact that a company having a professionally qualified person in control can, without question, get a grant even though there eventually may be negative result from its research and development effort. I suggest that there should be some way of giving discretion to the Grants Board in dealing with cases of the kind I have mentioned. 
I note that a recent report of the Board said that 32 companies had been denied grants because of the lack of professionally qualified control. It seems to me that a commercial result is the important thing in this whole effort, and that while quality of research has importance, it should be kept in proper perspective. It may be that maintaining a high level of quality in research and development will in the long run give the best returns. But the thing to be emphasised is that it is the returns that are the objective, and not the creation of employment for professionally qualified staff. If returns can be increased in some instances without the need for professionally qualified staff, then there should be provision in the scheme to assist in increasing the effort of those firms. I ask the Government to look very closely at this aspect. 
Perhaps the Grants Board could be given discretion to approve grants in cases where a company is already in research and development, does not employ a professionally qualified person, but can pro duce a proven record of success. I am not talking about a company which wants to move into research and development for the first time, and says that in its judgment it does not need professional people. Neither am I talking about a company which already carries out research without professional people, and which has no record of success. What I am putting is simply that there should be provision for a company whose success record bears out its argument that it can achieve success in this field based on its own practical experience and know-how. It seems ludicrous to me that such a company should not be assisted to expand its efforts, while others automatically are given assistance for an effort which could well lead to nothing. It should not be beyond the capability and judgment of the members of the Grants Board to use their discretion in approving grants in those cases. 
I wish to bring a matter to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  on behalf of one of my constituents and of the Australian Federation of Aquarium Fish Importers and Traders. It concerns the decision made early this year by the Australian Fisheries Council under the chairmanship of the Minister for Primary Industry, that the import of goldfish into Australia should be banned. I am aware that, at this stage, this decision has not yet been implemented by the Minister for Customs and Excise and that inquiries are still proceeding to enable that Minister to decide whether he will prohibit the import of goldfish under the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations. That morning, J paid the Minister for Primary Industry the courtesy of letting him know that I would be speaking tonight and I am disappointed that he is not in the chamber. I thank the Minister for Customs and Excise for being present. 
I am also aware that the restrictions to be placed on the introduction of any species of exotic fish into any State are a matter for decision by each individual State Government. 1 am informed that, so far, New South Wales and Tasmania are the only State governments that have banned the introduction of goldfish from overseas. The Northern Territory Administration has also banned goldfish from overseas. My reason for raising this matter is to seek information from the Minister for Primary Industry and also from the Minister for Customs and Excise. What are the reasons -which actuated the Australian Fisheries Council under the chairmanship of the Minister for Primary Industry to reach such a decision? Was it because there was a fear that the import of goldfish from overseas would introduce fish diseases into our fresh water streams? If it was, I would appreciate it if the Minister for Primary Industry would say so and also give the House the evidence which led the Council to that conclusion. 1 am informed that the Federation has the testimony of no less a person than Professor Emmens, head of the Department of 
Animal Physiology of the University of Sydney, that these fears are groundless. Was one of the factors which influenced the Australian Fisheries Council to reach its decision the fear that tropical diseases could be introduced into Australia in the water in which the goldfish are transported? If this is so, I wish the Minister for Primary Industry would say so because my information is that the Federation has had a large number of sample of this water analysed by Professor Steinbeck of Sydney University and in his opinion these fears are also groundless. Other independent experts have reached the same conclusion. 
I would like to draw the attention of the House to the effect that this proposed ban on goldfish will have on the aquarium industry. Goldfish have been imported into Australia virtually without restriction for the last 80 years. The estimated annual import amounts to about 4 million, whereas local breeders supply only about 1 million. Goldfish have been entering Australia for so long that they have become an established wild fish in our local streams. The common brown carp is actually a goldfish which has reverted to its natural shape and brown colouration. They seem to have caused no harm to our streams or freshwater fish in the past 80 years. If this is so, why is the ban being imposed? 
The Minister for Customs and Excise and the Minister for Primary Industry may be interested to know that about 800,000 people in Australia keep  acquarium fish and about half of those people keep goldfish. The aquarium trade supports or has a substantial effect on literally thousands of Australians. Large numbers of people are employed in the manufacture of fish tanks, fish food, plastic items, air pumps, aquarium heaters and thermostats, lights, filters, furniture and accessories as well as in growing water plants, and providing sand. Extending this to the retail trade, we see that the number of people to be affected by this arbitrary ban runs into many thousands. Surely this country is already cursed with enough unemployment without it being further affected by this goldfish ban. 
This decision reeks of panic. There are only 4 goldfish breeders in Australia - one in Victoria, one in New South Wales and 2 in Queensland. They can breed sufficient goldfish to supply only a quarter of the local market. Therefore, it is not a question of protecting the local goldfish breeder. In any case, there are only 3 types of goldfish which can be bred economically in Australia. These are the common goldfish, the comet and the shubunkin. These are cold water fish. Other breeds such as lionheads, arandas, bubble eyes, celestials, pearl scales, fantails, etc. cannot be raised economically in Australia because they are sub-tropical fish which need heated tanks. Is the real reason that the various State fisheries departments, when they talk of possible danger to the local species, are in fact referring to trout and redfin? It seems to me that trout is the main reason for the existence of these departments as most of them run large trout hatcheries. In fact, trout is also a foreign fish introduced here for the pleasure of anglers. But I remind both Ministers that aquarium keeping is also a hobby which is practised and enjoyed by many more Australian people than there are freshwater anglers. I also remind them that trout are predacious fish which, if they do not actually prey on the native fish, eat the food which the native fish require. 
I ask the Ministers to give these facts consideration and trust that they will take all the necessary actions to remove the ban. On the evidence available to me it seems that the decision of the Australian Fisheries Council was a capricious panic move taken without regard to the effects on the livelihood of thousands of Australians. At the very least, if the Council considered, on the basis of evidence available to it, that a ban should be placed on imported goldfish, surely the proper thing to do would have been to allow the industry sufficient time to adjust to the situation. A goldfish farm takes 3 years to attain viability and would require an investment of $50,000, similar to any other farm. I conclude by asking both Ministers this question: Is not this industry entitled to the same sensible consideration as would be given to any other industry? 
Will the Minister for Social Services give consideration to making the pensions increases announced by the Treasurer in the Budget Speech retrospective to the date of the announcement? If he will not do this, what are his reasons for not so doing, bearing in mind that the Treasurer recently has announced taxation legislation with a retrospective effect? 
Finally, will the Minister bring the social services legislation into this House as a matter of urgency so that expeditious treatment can be given to it, thereby helping those pensioners who are already forced to live below the poverty line? 
I have listened with interest to some of the speeches that have been made this afternoon by members of the Government Parties. I am sick of the cant, the hypocrisy and the tongue-in-cheek accusing of this side of the Parliament, the Opposition, of not being able to form an effective government. I make this challenge to the Government here and now: Man for man we can outmatch it and we can beat it. There are more qualified people on this side of Parliament, on the Opposition benches, than on the Government side. One only has to look at the historical record. We have men of the calibre of the shadow Treasurer, Frank Crean, a graduate in 3 faculties of the University of Melbourne. 
Order! The correct reference is to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. 
The correct reference is to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports but the future reference will be to the honourable, the Treasurer, come November or whenever the Government agrees to calf the general election. 
It is not a case of wait and see. I heard the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  speak of the silent majority. I listened to him somewhat more in sorrow than in anger because he and I are members of the Christian Fellowship. I once heard it said of him - I do not say this offensively but in sorrow as it was such a long time ago - that he came into the Parliament with a Bible in one hand and a machine gun in the other. I do not say this offensively but when the chips are down we hear what honourable members opposite think of us. I do not wish to put this matter on a personal basis, but the cant and hypocrisy that I heard this afternoon and yesterday has sickened me and I am certain that it has sickened the rest of the community. 
I turn now to a matter which has concerned me since I have been in this Parliament - the restrictions which are placed on me as a former officer of the Taxation Office with which I served for 34 years. I am proud of that service. I refer to section 16 of the Income Tax Assessment Act which refers to the necessity for officers to observe secrecy. Sub-section (1 .) of that section states: 
For the purposes of this section, 'officer' means a person who is or has been appointed or employed by the Commonwealth or by a Slate, and who by reason of that appointment or employment, or in the course of that employment, may acquire or has acquired information respecting the affairs of any other person, disclosed or obtained under the provisions of this Act or of any previous law of the Commonwealth relating to Income Tax. 
Sub-section (2.) of the same section - this is the important one - states: 
Subject to this section, an officer shall not either directly or indirectly, except in the performance of any duty as an officer, and either while he is, or after be ceases to be an officer, make a record of, or divulge or communicate to any person any such information so acquired by him. 
I am an ex-officer of the Taxation Office. I am still bound by that oath of secrecy. The penalty for violation of that oath of secrecy - this is one of the things that frightens me and that is the reason I observe the oath - is a fine of $500 or imprisonment for 12 months. I wish to goodness that I could reveal some of the things that I know as they apply in the Taxation Office for the benefit of the people of Australia. I cannot because I am bound by that oath of secrecy. 
I have the highest respect for the present Commissioner of Taxation,  Sir Edward  Cain and his second commissioners, other senior members of the Office and also members of the staff of the Office for their dedication. Their integrity is unquestionable but, unfortunately, I say advisedly that I cannot speak in the same laudatory terms of some of the present Commissioner's predecessors who have been susceptible to political pressure, whether conscious pressure or unconscious pressure. As I said previously, unfortunately I am still bound by an oath of secrecy and the very heavy burden that it entails. But this thought has crossed my mind: Should an oath of secrecy of that nature apply to members of this Parliament? Whether it is a good thing or not I do not know. In my view the national Parliament should be an open forum where abuses are disclosed and gain the full light of day. Perhaps one day some government will look at this aspect and give the members of this national Parliament a free and unfettered right to disclose abuses by all government authorities where the public interest is involved. 
Speaking of the members of the Taxation Office, the situation when I left it in 1969 was one of complete frustration at the staffs inability to do anything about the known tax abuses. It was suggested to me - I believe it is true - that the position of the taxation officer can be likened to that of a boxer engaged in a fight with his hands tied behind his back. This Government has done nothing - I emphasise nothing - to assist the work of the Taxation Office to collect revenue. It is a wellknown fact that the bulk of the revenue collected from income tax is borne by one section of the community and one section alone - the poor old salary and wage earner. 
Honourable members are aware of the results of the computer check. If some poor old wage earner happens to claim $70 or $80 in chemists' expenses, his claim is thrown out by the computer and he is asked to verify the claim. If he claims for medical expenses and if, on the basis of the figures which are fed into the computer, he does not show sufficient rebates from a hospital fund, he is forced to verify the claim. All this attention is given to the average person - the average salary and wage earner who cannot escape his liability for paying tax. He has got no chance. 
But what happens with the wealthier section of the community - the wealthy taxpayer, the large company? I have seen the results, and I am not breaking any oath of secrecy when I say that they are getting away with it, right and left. The reason they are getting away with it - and I can quote the figures - is because there are insufficient investigation officers throughout the whole of the taxation system. I will quote figures from the last report which I have been able to obtain. I cannot quote the figures relating to the number of investigation officers as at 30th June 1972 because the annual report of the Commissioner of Taxation for the last financial year has not yet been published. But as at 30th June 1970 there were only 830 income tax investigation officers throughout the whole of Australia, and by 30th June 1971 the figure had fallen to 794. But there was no fall in the number of income tax returns coming in, particu larly from companies - the bogus companies and the phoney companies where the need for investigation is the greatest. 
Why did the number of investigation officers fall? I can tell honourable members one reason for it: This Government has no interest at all in collecting revenue from the people who can afford to pay it, and I say that sincerely and advisedly. The reason why the Government does not want to collect this money is that the Government is helping the interests which keep it in office, the interests it is protecting. I should like to read to honourable members some excerpts from the 50th annual report of the Commissioner of Taxation. One can sense the frustration running right through what the Commissioner,  Sir Edward  Cain, said. He said: 
The task of administering the Australian taxation system raises some basic problems. These are in no way peculiar to Australia but are reflected in most developed nations. The accurate determination of a person's liability to tax- particularly income tax - may often involve an inquiry Into facets of a taxpayer's business and private affairs which are peculiarly within his own knowledge. When this task has to be performed in relation to the entire community, without an unacceptable level of interference in private affairs, delicate balances have to be maintained. An over-rigorous enforcement of a taxation system can imperil public respect for the system itself - it would require also that what might well be regarded as an unacceptably large proportion of public funds would have to be allocated for revenue collection purposes. 
This is the important part of the Commissioner's report. It underlines his frustration. He said: 
On the other hand, a taxation system will enjoy community confidence only when it is possible to ensure a sufficiently high degree of compliance to satisfy fair-minded taxpayers that they are not being called upon to bear an excessive share of the total burden. 
Then he says: 
The basic operations of issuing six million assessments and accounting for the tax assessed - in themselves quite formidable - are complicated by the enquiries, disputes and misunderstandings that inevitably arise from such a huge volume of transactions, and by the problems of dealing with the minority of taxpayers who seek to evade or avoid their proper liabilities or who are unable or unwilling to pay the tax assessed. 
The next paragraph in the report is a further example of the Commissioner's frustration, and I ask honourable members to listen to it sincerely and let it sink in. He said: 
When all this has to be done with strictly limited resources, particularly in times of financial stringency . . . 
What he is saying there, in so many words, is that this Government will not give him the staff to do the job. I accuse this Government of that. I know the effect that this has had within the taxation investigation section where I worked. Because of the shortage of staff at the lower level in the assessing areas, investigation officers are employed for a fairly substantial period of the year not on investigation duties but on routine assessing work. They could be better employed on investigation work. In my opinion, that is a waste of the time of senior, highly paid investigation officers who could be better employed doing the job which they are paid to do - collecting revenue. There are not enough investigation officers. There should be more of them. The Government should relax restrictions on recruitment to the Public Service, or at least to the Taxation Office, in order to allow recruitment at the lower level. There are sufficient trained staff in the assessing area and there are enough trained accountants, but more men are needed in the investigation field where they can be used fully and effectively in collecting - and I say this quite advisedly - hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars payment of which is being evaded by the section of the community that can afford to pay. 
I should now like to turn to one matter that has greatly disturbed rae. It has only recently come to my attention. I refer to tax havens. We have read a little of this in the Press recently. I refer to an article headed 'Australians join rush to tax haven' in the 'Australian' of 28th August last, which states: 
Australian companies are setting up offices in Vila, capital of the New Hebrides - a chain of islands that is rapidly becoming an international tax haven. 
I want to quote from a publication which is freely available on the desks of the ANZ Bank in Sydney. It is titled 'Melanesia Internationa] Trust Company Limited' and it states: 
The Melanesia International Trust Company Limited, which is incorporated under the British Law of the New Hebrides, offers a wide range of trustee, corporate and financial services within the New Hebrides and in other areas of the world. The shares of the Company are owned by a group of leading banks, trust companies and financial institutions in the Pacific area and on both sides of the Atlantic making the Company an international organisation fully equipped to offer a service comparable to any available elsewhere. 
The publication which, as I say, is freely available, states that the sponsors of this company include the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd, the Australian International Finance Corporation Ltd, the Bahamas International Trust Co. Ltd, Barclays Bank, the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd and the Bank of Bermuda Ltd. What does this company offer to do? It offers services such as acting as trustees of inter vivos settlements providing investment management, custodian service, collection agency service, custodian and nominee services and - this is the important one - a reinvoicing service for international companies. This is the latest tax lurk - reinvoicing. 
Probably somebody will ask me, and rightly so: 'How is it done?' I will tell honourable members what happens. An international exporting company in Australia will form a subsidiary company in Vila in the New Hebrides, which is a tax free area. Let us say that the cost of a unit is $5 and that it is selling for SIO. The company in Australia invoices the unit out at $7 to the subsidiary company in Vila which has been set up by the Melanesia International Trust Co. Ltd. That brings to account a profit of only $2. Then the unit is re-invoiced out from Vila at $10 or more. In other words, the amount of taxable income which would have been paid in Australia is cut by more than half. It is being openly done. The publication by Melitco. as the Trust Co. is commonly called, says, among other things, that it offers facilities for investment management in all the major financial centres. It also states: 
Since there is no income tax in the New Hebrides, it follows that there are no double taxation conventions with other countries. Dividends and interest paid to the New Hebrides Croup are subject to applicable withholding taxes levied a* source by the paying agent. However, interest oi certain governmental and other investments in thi United Kingdom can be paid to non-resident! thereof free of United Kingdom income tax. 
By 'non-residents' it means non-residents of the New Hebrides, and there are many Australian companies there. This interest can be paid to these 'non-residents' free of United Kingdom income or any other  tax,  including Australian tax. The New Hebrides - Vila in particular - has become the Bahamas of the Pacific, but up to date the Commonwealth Government has done nothing about it. Since I have been a member of this Parliament I have raised many tax avoidance issues. There are 4 known schemes that I have raised and the Government finally succumbed to my persistent hammering and announced that it would close the loopholes in the legislation. Here is another one. The loopholes in this instance can be closed up. It is about time they were. 
The Government has competent staff in the Taxation Office. It is skilled and trained staff, ready, willing and able to assist. The Government has only to ask. It is all right for the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Garland)  to interject. He knows that as well as I do. If he does not know it he should sack the Commissioner of Taxation and his staff because it means he has no confidence in them. I have complete confidence in them. There are many other tax avoidance schemes, but I do not have the time to talk about them tonight. I conclude by saying that the Government has been lax in its administration of the taxation legislation. When the Australian Labor Party gets into office there will be no laxity in closing off the tax avoidance scheme. Action will be taken. 
No question of secrecy is involved. The Taxation Office knows about these taxation avoidance schemes and, to my knowledge, it has recommended the closing up of the loopholes in the legislation but the Government has done nothing about implementing its recommendations. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
I have no intention at this stage of making any derogatory remarks about the members of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. They are, and have been over a long period of time, a very dedicated bunch of men who have put in long hours and I compliment them on the work that they have done. I realise that I am restricted in this debate to speaking about this referral but I would like to make one comment. The referral of this project at Alice Springs, a project which must cost over $750,000, in my view is a political gimmick. Honourable members can do all the hoo-haaing they like. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is in a vulnerable position. 
I know that you are a very fair man,  Mr Speaker,  and I would hope that you would allow me the same latitude as you allowed the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  when he referred to Bathurst, Wooloomooloo and 
Melbourne. There is not the slightest chance in the world that the Government would win the seat in any of those areas. The honourable member for Wakefield referred to these other areas and I think in fairness that I should be permitted to refer to them also. The other matter I want to comment on - I hope that you will allow me to comment on it,  Mr Speaker  - is the indecent haste with which this proposal was brought forward. This Parliament has been treated with contempt. I am sick to death, and so are other honourable members on this side of the House, with the contempt with which the Government treats the Opposition. There is another issue which I know you will not allow me to debate,  Mr Speaker,  and that is the number of speakers that the Government will allow in a debate which is to take place later tonight. The Government is restricting us- 
asked the Minister for Exter nal Territories, upon notice: 
Did he state in answer to question No. 4921 (Hansard, 23rd February 1972, page 190) that, at 30lh November 1971, there were 1,607 companies registered on Norfolk Island consisting of (a) 1,513 companies incorporated on the Island and (b) 94 companies incorporated elsewhere and registered on the Island as foreign companies. 
If so, can he supply details of each of these companies showing (a) its name, (b) the date of registration, (c) the nature of its business, (d) the name, address and shareholding of each shareholder and (e) the name and address of the public officer. 
Can he also supply similar details relating to those companies which registered after 30th November 1971. 
The subject on which I wish to speak tonight is a dangerous situation which has developed in regard to the protection of our own Australian manufacturing industries. By way of illustration I should like to quote some pertinent facts in regard to some of the manufacturing industries in my electorate. I will refer to those which I have personally inspected. Firstly, I mention Hyster Aus tralia Pty Ltd which to my knowledge is the sole manufacturer of fork lift trucks within Australia. The components from which these fork lift trucks are made are almost wholly manufactured in Australia. 
I recently conducted an inspection of firm's plant which employs a large number of people from within my electorate. To my shock I found that, due to the lack of tariff protection and the use of bylaw entry, Japanese imports were cutting this firm to ribbons. This firm had forward orders for only a small number of fork lift trucks al the time I inspected the plant and it had approximately 10 times more stock on hand than it had forward orders. They were just sitting in the store without any hope of being sold. Employees of that firm were progressively being dismissed, adding to the huge pool of unemployment which we already have. Japanese imports were killing the market. This firm has bad to dispense with its trained and skilled staff due to Japanese cut throat tactics which have been employed with the full approval of this Government. 
Another firm in my electorate - and the problems of this firm were only very recently drawn to my notice - is Channells Products Pty Ltd, a manufacturing company. The problems that this firm is facing are to my mind almost insurmountable. The reason for this is the same Japanese cut throat tactics concerning imports into Australia. This firm manufactures cast iron sizzle plates. The cost of producing them is S3 per unit. This firm is prepared to sell them at the lowly mark-up on cost of 5 per cent, which gives a selling price of $3.15. The moulding is carried out by a wholly owned Australian company. The timber which is supplied comes from a wholly Australian owned company. The aluminium is cast in the firm's own foundry by its own employees. Australian workers are being sacked by this firm because Japanese manufactured sizzle plates are allowed into this country under by-law entry. Because Japanese sizzle plates are allowed into Australia under bylaw entry they can be retailed at $2.30. This wholly owned Australian company is being sacrificed because Japanese imports are crucifying it. 
Australian skilled workers are being added to the already huge pool of unem- ployed because this Government is not interested in maintaining full employment as is the Australian Labor Party. The same situation applies to spray guns manufactured by Channells Products Pty Ltd. Surely the Australian manufacturing industries and the people who work in these industries should not be sacrificed just to appease the Japanese exporters. I pose this question to the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp):  Where does the Government stand on this important issue? The Australian Labor Party policy is quite clear on this matter. It appears on page 1 1 of the 'Platform, Constitution and Rules' as determined by the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party held in Launceston in 1971. lt is Labor Party policy to: 
Protect Australian industries, where necessary, by tariffs, import controls, and/or subsidies in order to safeguard Australian living standards and to develop Australian resources. The use and level of, and choice between, means of protection to be determined after examination and report by an independent, fully equipped, government authority which will consider, among other things, efficiency, growth prospects, trade practices and pricing policies. 
This is Labor Party policy and this is the policy which will be implemented when this Government chooses to go to the polls because we will be the next government. 
Another large manufacturing industry in my electorate is Bliss Welded Products Ltd which is wholly Australian owned. That company makes presses for the heavy machinery industry and car manufacturing industry. It is being forced out of the market because, in some instances, there is no tariff protection at all and in other instances it is being forced out of the market by the Japanese interests, particularly MITT, who are prepared to allow the Australian importer and the Australian manufacturer, who is prepared to buy these products, finance on a 7-year interest free loan. How can Australian manufacturing industries compete with this type of unfair and discriminatory tactic employed by the Japanese organisation. James N. Kirby Manufacturing Pty Ltd, another large manufacturer in my electorate, is being similarly treated. The future Minister for Trade when Labor is in government, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  made these comments at a luncheon at the Southern Cross Hotel in Melbourne on 21st July 1972: 
The transformation from tariffs to industry planning in Australia is essential. This is partly because industry leaders have developed a private enterprise philosophy which sees government as something to be used without obligation and partly because the Public Service philosophy is one of independence and is somewhat authoritarian. 
Should any members of the Commonwealth Public Service be present, I do not say that offensively because I was a member of that Service for 34 years and I have the highest regard for it. The honourable member for Lalor continued: 
The objective to be achieved is to transfer the ad hoc so-called independent position of the Tariff Board into a continuing relationship with industry which will operate with integrity and genuine knowledge. 
The honourable member for Lalor further continued: 
It seems to me that these arrangements must mean a change in the position of the Tariff Board and the creation of a special department for secondary industry or, if the Department of Trade can be retained, a much strengthened section to deal with the affairs of secondary industry. 
When Labor is elected to office - on whichever day the Prime Minister chooses to hold the election - this is the policy which will be implemented and it will give the Australian manufacturing industry some idea of our forward planning which it needs to conduct the industry efficiently. 
Progress reported. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a short statement on the same subject. 
I agree with most of the sentiments which have been expressed by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt).  However, I wonder whether the Minister would also give consideration to some aspects pertaining to back bencher members, who are in a somewhat similar situation, not of necessity in regard to housing but in regard to amenities for back benchers and particularly for members of the Opposition. I refer mainly to the use of Commonwealth vehicles. I have had private discussions with the Minister on this subject on previous occasions. I think it is ridiculous that junior Commonwealth public servants should have access to Commonwealth cars to travel around Canberra when, if a member of the Parliament, be he an Executive member or a back bencher, wants to travel to an office on a matter pertaining to his electorate, he must do so in a taxi cab. 
I appreciate the comments which have been made by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  I must say that I agree with what he has said about himself. He has always been approachable. I have found him to be not only an approachable Minister but also an extremely capable one. I should think that sizzle plates would not be a mechanism used like a barbecue. One of the directors of Channell Products Pty Ltd rang me from Sydney - he lives in my electorate - and informed me of what is in fact happening. After listening to what the Minister for Customs and Excise has said, it appears as though dumping is going on. 
In my comments relating to Hyster . Australia Pty Ltd, I was relying on information which was given to me during an inspection of its factory. I was asked  to  come and look at the factory because Hyster Australia Pty Ltd was being, as it was put to me, practically put out of business by the importation of Japanese fork lift trucks under by-law concession. The Hyster factory is very close to my home and I went across to inspect it when invited to do so. 1 do not think I went off half cocked on this matter. I admit that I was wrong in that, as the Minister has pointed out, there are other firms in Australia which do in fact manufacture fork lift trucks. I accept his assurance that that is the situation. When I inspected the plant of Hyster Australia Pty Ltd approximately 3 weeks agoI was informed that there were sitting in store many forklift trucks for which they could not obtain forward orders. The Assistant Managing Director of the firm told me that. It was he who conducted me on a tour of the plant. I accepted the information that he gave me as being factual. I subjected him to a bit of cross-examination on it. Because, as the Minister for Customs and Excise pointed out so rightly, I had had 34 years of service in the Commonwealth Public Service, 15 of them as an investigation officer, I had to satisfy myself on this matter. I was satisfied in my own mind on the evidence that I adduced from the Assistant Managing Director that Hyster Australian Pty Ltd was in fact being, as I have put it, crucified, I mentioned in my earlier speech that Hyster fork lift trucks were not wholly of Australian content. Efforts have been made to have GMH engines, I think they are, installed in those trucks. Hyster imports the engines for its trucks from a source which it says is not so much cheaper but which gives it a more efficient unit. I am satisfied that Hyster turns out a good product. 1 have seen Hyster fork lift trucks and I have inspected the plant. What is happening is that Hyster's market is being killed by Japanese imports. 
If I unjustly blamed the Minister for Customs and Excise I apologise and withdraw those remarks. But I would like to see an investigation made of the cases to which 1 have referred.I do not think that I went off half cocked. I think I made adequate investigation in respect of each of the 3 of them. I repeat that I was asked to come over and inspect Hyster's plant. I did not go there of my own choice, although I was very happy to do so because I am, as the Minister is aware, interested in the subject of tariffs, trade and economics. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Education and Science 
Proposed expenditure,$188,055,000. 
I should like to read from a speech made in this House on 7th March 1972 by the spokesman for the Australian Labor Party on education, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  He said: 
. it is not common sense to make the same kind of grant to a greater public school with fees of more than $1,000 a year as is made to a poorer private school which has much lower fees which may have many migrant children who need to be taught English and which has all sorts of difficulties and disabilities which the more privileged schools do not have. 
The Australian Labor Party believes in those sentiments. I believe in those sentiments. There has been a grave distortion of fact by Government supporters as to what is the policy of the Labor Party. 1 want to put the record straight on this issue. The policy of the Labor Party towards education is quite clear, lt is set out not only in the decisions which were taken at the Launceston conference of the Australian Labor Party in 1971 but also in a publication which will be available shortly for all to read. It is headed 'Education - It's Time'. 
It certainly is time; it is time for a new deal in education for all, on the basis of need. 1 should like to cite some figures relating to certain schools in my electorate. They happen to be diocesan, poorer Catholic schools. Mount St Joseph's, Milperra, is a school which caters for 638 pupils. There are 14 lay teachers and 12 nuns at the school. The fees for the first and second forms are $32 a term, and, for the third and fourth forms $44 a term. These fees are paid by the poorer parents who live in my electorate. I know them; they can ill afford them. They are not getting justice from this Government. They will get justice from a Labor government because that is our policy. Certainly, that school recently has had granted to it approximately $39,000 towards the cost of a library. But that library will cost more than $39,000 and where is that money coming from? lt can come from only one source, and that is from the pockets of the parents who cai ill afford to pay it. 
My children attend another school in my electorate. It is an ordinary diocesan school and I would be paid the highest salary - 1 admit it - of all the parents who have children attending that school. That school has 780 pupils, 21 lay teachers and 7 brothers. The fees for primary pupils in 5th and 6th classes are $19 a term, and for secondary pupils $52 a term. The poorer people in my area - they form the bulk of my electorate because it is a poor, working class area - must bear the cost not only of the school buildings but also of the salaries of the lay teachers who certainly are dedicated people. At this stage, they receive a salary which is only 90 per cent of the State equivalent. They are nearly all qualified or close to qualification. That they are prepared to accept a lower salary and still achieve terrific results from their pupils only highlights their dedication. Who is bearing th?_ cost of running the school? It is not this Government. This Government has contributed a measly sum to the cost of that school and its buildings. The cost of those buildings, which has been borne by the poorer section of the community in my electorate, is close to $500,000. This money did not come from the pockets of the Commonwealth or the State governments; it came from the pockets of the people living in my electorate who have children attending this school. Ail that we are seeking is justice fo: that section of the community. 
The same situation applies to the primary convent schools in my area. Both St Luke's at Revesby and St Christopher's at Panania employ a high number of lay teachers for which the poorer section of the community, which is my electorate, are paying. All we are seeking is justice for all, but this Government is not providing justice for all. This Government's justice favours what could be called the wealthier section of the community. 1 once heard the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  say - 1 think I am not quoting him out of context - that St Peter's, Adelaide, is open to all. But who can qualify to go to St Peter's, Adelaide? St Peters receives assistance which it honestly does not deserve. The same applies to the Sydney schools of Riverview, St Joseph's College, Scots College and Kings and other similar schools. There is no justice in the application of this Government's education policy but there will be justice when the Australian Labor Party is elected to office come 25th November or whichever date the Government chooses. 
The same situation applies in the State school system in my State. I have inspected some of the poorer State schools - there are many poor ones - such as Kogarah High School. That school is not in my electorate. 
I agree. It is well represented by the honourable member for Barton, but the honourable member cannot get the funds necessary to bring that school to a decent standard. It is an absolute disgrace to see the conditions that exist at Kogarah High School. Most of the rooms do not even have any electricity connected to them. How the Government can expect pupils to study in schools like that is beyond my comprehension. That same situation does not apply in the wealthier schools. It does not apply in the schools of the more privileged. There must be justice not only in the independent schools which need justice and help; justice must also be meted out in the area of those state schools, which are also in need of help. 
I have also inspected the infants school at Beverly Hills. That school had an active Parents and Citizens Association which raised over $1,000 on a project. The association applied to the New South Wales Minister for Education for permission to use the money to connect electricity to some of the schoolrooms which did not have electricity. Permission was refused. Those schools are the types of schools which should be assisted, not the wealthier schools, the schools of privilege. If we are to have justice, let us have it. The Australian Labor Party will give justice to all the people of Australia when it gains office on 25th November. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister in his capacity as Acting Treasurer. Is it a fact that this Government has over a long period been most reluctant to amend the income tax Jaw to prevent tax avoidance schemes practised by large companies and the more affluent section of the community? Is it a fact that the revenue so lost by this reluctance has had to be borne by lower and middle income group taxpayers? Has the Prime Minister knowledge of any other tax avoidance schemes which have not yet been closed off by either legislative action or proposed legislative action? If not, will he obtain details of these other tax avoidance schemes from Taxation and Treasury officials and give details of those schemes to the House together with the amount of tax avoided, which runs into scores of millions of dollars? 
 I move: 
That  Mr Gordon  Scholes, the honourable member for Corio, be appointed  Chairman  of Committees of this House. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. I remind honourable members that the next  speaker  is making his maiden speech and I ask them to extend to him the usual courtesies. 
I remind the Leader of the Opposition that the subject of this Bill is not migration but sales tax on contraceptives. 
This Bill, small as it is, is of very great importance. Perhaps I could summarise in the following manner. The removal of sales tax on contraceptives was elevated to a significance which was not real but symbolic. But it appeared to many people that if the sales tax was removed an immense number of problems would be solved. In truth the removal has not solved the problems, nor has it satisfied the normal and proper aspirations of women for equality in our community. We need to see the removal of sales tax not as the end of the line but merely as the commencement of the line. We need to continue as vigorously as we can the evolution of policies which will probably take some time but which in the end will answer the aspirations of women in our community who, as I mentioned, possess 50 per cent of our intellect. It is an immense luxury for us, as a growing nation, to believe that we can carelessly not make use of the full capacity which is available there. Making use of that capacity does not in any way mean an attack on the family. The family is the basic unit of our society. It is an institution which must remain, and I do not believe that any member of my Party - and I think I can speak for the Australian Country Party - would want to see the institution that the family, and all that means for cohesiveness and good in our community, in any way weakened. 

 Mr MATHEWS (Casey)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 

Order! I am certain that the honourable member does not need any assistance. 
Has the Acting Treasurer seen reports to the effect that the recent measures relating to foreign investment in this country have acted mainly to deter fixed interest lending rather than equity investment? As equity investment is far more significant in terms of the establishment of foreign ownership and control of Australian industry and resources, does he think that these reports indicate that some reconsideration of these measures is called for? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I never cease to be amazed in this House at the lack of knowledge which is displayed by some honourable members opposite, either deliberately or in the belief that they are pulling the wool over the eyes of the people. During the days of Hitler it was said of Goebbels that if you tell a lie often enough somebody will believe it. We have heard this parrot cry from the Opposition benches, and in particular the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  when criticising the Government for implementing this measure. The parrot cry that was put forward by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was that the Government was attempting to force a situation in which additional leave would be granted to members of unions only. Nothing could be further from the truth. It was pointed out by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  - I will repeat it for those who apparently did not hear his speech - that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act provides that the conditions of an award can be made applicable only to the workers under that award. That is exactly what happened. 
The Commonwealth Public Service unions applied to the Public Service Arbitrator for an increase from  3  weeks to 4 weeks annual leave. The Arbitrator brought down an award which was made applicable only to members of the unions which applied for it. That decision is contained in the determination of the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator. A determination made under the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitration Act must lie on the table of both Houses of Parliament for  28  days. Either House may reject it. Personally I think that this is an anachronism. I do not think the Parliament should have the authority to reject an arbitral determination of any arbitration system. Be that as it may, that provision is contained in the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitration Act. 
The Senate - or the other place, as it is called in this House - for reasons best known to itself decided to make this a political issue, rejected the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator's determination which granted 4 weeks leave to Commonwealth public servants which, in accordance with the Act, restricted the additional week's leave to members of the unions who had applied for it. 'Membership of a union' were the key words. That is not new. Yet we have the Opposition saying that the Government is succumbing to industrial blackmail. I think Opposition members show a complete lack of knowledge on the subject when they push out these pious platitudes and expect members on this side of the House to believe them and apparently hope that the Australian people will believe them. Nothing is further from the truth. Owing to the political machinations of the Opposition in the Senate, most ably backed by its representatives in this House, the Senate disallowed that arbitral determination and it then led us into a situation in which, to protect something that the employees had got by arbitration, this Government was forced to introduce legislation in this House to protect the interests of union members and to protect the interests of all members of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
There was a time when the conditions of employees in the Commonwealth Public Service set the standard for the rest of employees in Australia. I am afraid that that situation ended in 1949 when the Liberal-Country Party coalition came into Government, but I am happy to say that the improvement in conditions and the changes which have come about since 2nd December 1972 when the Australian Labor Party became the Government have led to a situation in which the conditions of Commonwealth Public Service employees will again set the standard for the rest of employees in Australia. I congratulate the Prime Minister for his action of bringing before this House the Public Service Bill 1973, which grants 4 weeks annual leave to all Commonwealth public servants. In introducing the Bill he said: 
In the early years after Federation, employees of the Commonwealth Public Service set a standard for the rest of Australia in conditions of employment. Their minimum of 3 weeks annual recreation leave gave them an advantage over most other employees in Australia. This advantage has long since disappeared, and my Government is determined to restore it. We want the national Government to continue to set the pace in improving the working conditions of Australian men and women. 
With those sentiments I wholeheartedly agree. I was shocked when I heard the Deputy Leader of the Opposition come forward today with a statement that he did not agree that conditions in the Commonwealth Public Service should set the pace. I thought that the Commonwealth Public Service and the Commonwealth Government, irrespective of which Party is in power, as a beneficent employer should set the pace. I had always understood that that was Liberal-Country Party policy, and I was shocked today when I heard the 
Deputy Leader of the Opposition disagreeing with what I thought was a cardinal principle. 
Farsighted employers, and I say this advisedly, have a part to play in altering and improving social conditions. The Commonwealth Government is by far the largest employer of labour in Australia. Consequently it has a far greater responsibility than other employers in setting the pattern for other employers to follow. This Government is doing just that. Commonwealth public servants were eligible for 3 weeks annual leave from 1901, which was the date of the formation of the Commonwealth Public Service. Successive conservative governments, including the Liberal-Country Party governments, have been intent on maintaining that ceiling. On 18th October 1966 an effort was made by the Australian Labor Party, then in Opposition, to lift that ceiling. The now Prime Minister, then Deputy Leader of the Opposition, moved that 3 weeks leave be increased to 4 weeks. That is an indication that the present Government has been battling for this improvement in conditions for a considerable length of time. The now Prime Minister, or, as he then was, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, on 18th March 1966, in moving an amendment on behalf of the Opposition that 4 weeks annual leave should be a condition inserted in the Commonwealth Public Service Act, is reported at page 1897 of Hansard as having said this: 
The effect of the amendment is to ensure that Commonwealth public servants have 4 weeks annual recreation leave. The Bill re-enacts the ceiling of 3 weeks annual leave, which has been imposed on public servants ever since the formation of the Commonwealth Public Service in 1901. At that time, Commonwealth public servants clearly enjoyed an advantage over most other employees in Australia. This advantage has now disappeared . . . The Act has always placed a ceiling on their annual leave and the Bill re-enacts the ceiling. Accordingly, we move that the ceiling be raised to 4 weeks. 
One would have thought that the then Government, if it was a good employer, would have really given serious consideration to it, but what was the Government's attitude? Its attitude was expressed by the spokesman on the matter for the then Government, who was the Minister for the Navy, the member for Perth,  Mr Chaney.  He said this: 
I want to say that in October 1965 Cabinet considered proposals from employee associations for an increase in the general period of annual recreation leave from 3 to 4 weeks. On 14th October 1965, the then Prime Minister issued a statement intimating that the increase would not be granted as the case for an extra week's leave had not been substantiated. 
Then he went on to give what in his opinion, or in the opinion of the then Government, were the reasons for not giving it. The matter came to a vote, and amongst those who voted against the then Opposition amendment, the Australian Labor Party amendment, were the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  I wonder whether today, when this Bill comes to a vote in this House, they will have the courage again to vote against the granting of 4 weeks leave to Commonwealth public servants. I doubt that they will. 
For the record I think it is important to highlight the attitude of political parties, be they in government or be they in opposition. It is also important to place on record the declared attitudes of the Leaders of the Parties. I have evidenced the declared attitude of the now Prime Minister as far back as 1966. I have evidenced the declared attitude of the present Leader of the Opposition, the present  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe. There is one of the many Prime Ministers that the Conservatives have had whose attitude I have not evidenced, and that is the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  the last Prime Minister but one. The situation arose in which he was Leader of the Government in the Senate when a Commonwealth Public Service Bill was before the Senate. Prior to that a question had been asked in the House of Representatives by a very able member of this House, the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti),  who has been a consistent battler for improvements in working conditions. The honourable member for Macquarie on 12th October 1966 asked the then Prime Minister, the late  Mr Harold  Holt, whether 4 weeks annual leave would be granted to Commonwealth public servants. This was the reply he received: 
There should be no ambiguity about our position, but  I  shall see that a copy of the Government's official statement on this matter is made available to the honourable gentleman. . . . Some time ago  I  received a deputation of representatives of the Public Service organisations and I undertook to bring the views of that deputation, which was pressing for 4 weeks annual leave for Commonwealth public servants, to the Cabinet. A Cabinet submission has been prepared which goes fully into this matter.  I  should expect it to be considered shortly and a decision to be reached for announcement before the Parliament rises. 
Remember the date - 12th October 1966. The Bill was the Public Service Bill and it was before the Senate. In the debate in the Senate on 13th October 1966 the right honourable member for Higgins jumped the gun on the Cabinet consideration which the honourable member for Macquarie had been told would take place and, in regard to an amendment which had been moved by the then Opposition to grant 4 weeks annual leave the right honourable member for Higgins, then  Senator Gorton,  said: 
The second proposal ... is that the Government should provide 4 weeks' annual recreation leave instead of 3 weeks for Commonwealth public servants.  Senator Willesee  quite accurately forecast that 1 would have something to say about the cost that such a change would impose on the Australian economy. If an extra week's leave were granted each year to the total number of Commonwealth employees, an additional 5,800 workers would be required in the Commonwealth Public Service. Of course, the annual wage and salary bill would rise by about £9m. 
He then went on to say that the Government had no intention of giving it. However, the Cabinet decision was not made until 5 days later. So in my mind one of the main architects in seeing that the Commonwealth public servants never had justice from previous Government was the right honourable member for Higgins who jumped the gun on that occasion and, in my view, forestalled a possibility - maybe it was a possibility that would not have come into effect - that the then Government could have granted it. The Government then was committed to a position where it could not grant it. When I think of reasons why the previous Government had never granted it my mind goes back to 1961 when the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  met extreme opposition in his own election campaign in that year. The stocks of the then Liberal-Country Party Government were so low that the Commonwealth Public Service unions and associations in New South Wales mounted a campaign against the then Government. In fact it almost led to the defeat of the right honourable member for Lowe. The thought amongst Commonwealth Public Service unions and associations from then on was that the edict went out that Commonwealth public servants would get nothing from that Government because it had almost led to the defeat of their star. It was almost a defeat. It was akin to the little boy taking his bat home when he was not allowed to play cricket. That is not a way to deal with the rights of Commonwealth public servants who seek not a hand out but justice. 
I would like to highlight some countries which have far greater benefits for their employees than we provide for our employees. It has often been said that Australians have extremely good working conditions. To a point yes, but certainly not when it comes to leisure or leave. The situation in other countries is a lot better than it is in Australia. That is one of the main reasons why the Public Service unions have a just case and why this Government has granted it. The position in the United States of America in 1949 was that 61 per cent of employees received 2 weeks leave. In 1952, 48 per cent received 2 weeks leave while 46 per cent received 3 weeks leave. In 1957, 64 per cent received 3 weeks leave while 20 per cent received 4 weeks leave and over. In 1961, 49 per cent received 3 weeks leave while 43 per cent received 4 weeks leave and over. In 1966, 60 per cent received 4 weeksleave while 13 per cent received 5 weeks leave. And we hold our heads up in the belief that we have some of the best social conditions in the world. We should hang our heads in shame. 
Workers in Norway have received 4 weeks leave since 1964 and yet we are supposed to be called a progessive country. In Sweden 4 weeks leave applies generally in industry and not only in the public service, which is all this Bill seeks to do. Public servants receive from 24 days leave for a 6-day week to 42 days leave a year depending on age and service grading. In West Germany - we hear talk of our economy, but there is not a stronger economy in the world than there is in West Germany -public servants receive 3 weeks leave with a minimum of 4 weeks for all employees over 30 years of age. In addition 4 weeks leave is provided in many outside agreements other than those relating to the public service. 
I could go on even further quoting countries without quoting the situation in Australia where in many States employees not only in the public service but also in outside industry received 4 weeks leave. We have this parrot cry:'The country cannot afford it'. The country could never afford it. I can remember when it was said that the country would go broke if we reduced the 60-hour week to 54 hours, then from 54 to 48, to 44 to 40. We have not gone broke yet and are not likely to go broke. The same reaction is seen from conservative governments and conservative interests every time there is an attempt made to improve working conditions. I am proud to be a member of the Government which is granting this improvement. All I hope is that the lead will be taken by employers outside the Commonwealth Public Service and that they will give the same measure of justice to their employees. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
My question is directed the Minister for Labour. What is the present figure of average weekly earnings? How is the figure arrived at? Does the figure include overtime and shift work payments? In view of the fact that the bulk of workers receive a wage much less than the figure of average weekly earnings, will the Minister give consideration to publishing also figures which show the average normal wage excluding overtime and shift work payments? 
Is the Minister for Tourism and Recreation aware that there is a heavy  imbalance  between the amount spent by Australian tourists overseas and the amount spent by visitors to Australia? Can he give the House details of the relevant figures? Finally, will the Minister take whatever action is necessary to encourage Australians to see Australia first? 
Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
There was also a suggestion that I and other honourable members on this side of the House voted for a Bill which damaged outports. What the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  refused to recognise right throughout the arguments about this matter was that the changes introduced by the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour were made under the terms of his Administration. They were not made under the terms of the previous Administration. If the changes had been made under the previous Administration the Association would not have been allowed to get away with it in the same way as the present Minister for Labour has for far too long allowed it to do so. 
The other aspect of this matter is that everyone who was represented in Victoria, including all political parties in Victoria, clearly realised that this was a matter which was within the responsibility of the Minister for Labour, that it was only natural that the main discussion should be concerning him and that State members were not directly involved. But the fact that it has been accepted as a Commonwealth responsibility and the fact that the Minister for Labour did, after a great deal of pressure, act upon this matter came as a direct result of action by the State Government. 
1 ask the Minister for Social Security whether he is aware of the financial hardship caused to parents of children over the age of 16 years receiving the invalid pension and needing costly nursing care at home. Will the Minister give consideration to introducing legislation to apply the provisions of the domiciliary care benefit to the parents of such children? 

The following message has been  received  from the Senate: 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. By way of preamble I refer to the recently announced decisions to abolish subsidies to companies searching for oil and to eliminate tax concessions on mining shares. Has the Treasurer seen the article in today's Australian' headed 'Decision will put companies out of business' and implying that Australian exploration companies will be put out of business? Is this so? If not, can the Treasurer explain the intention of the proposed legislation? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to the inquiry proceeding in the United Kingdom regarding the apparent overcharging by a Swiss manufacturing drug company for the tranquillisers librium and valium? In view of the wide use of these tranquillisers in Australia what action is proposed to ensure that the same overcharging is not taking place in Australia? 
Is the Minister for Civil Aviation aware that aircraft noise is still a problem in many areas of Sydney, particularly in my electorate? Will the Minister enlighten the House regarding the present position of proposals for the lessening of aircraft noise? 

Order! I think that under Standing Orders the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party is not entitled to talk about the Bill itself. He should restrict his remarks to the motion which is now under discussion. I remind the honourable member that the Bill has not yet been presented to this House. 
I believe that there is reason for every member of this place to have the opportunity to speak on this Bill. I believe that it would be preferable for the speaking time of honourable members not to be curtailed. Further, I believe, that there is a necessity not only for members of this place to talk about the Bill but also for the whole community to have an adequate opportunity to examine it. J believe that by shortening the debate to the extent that is intended in the motion we will deny the opportunity for parliamentarians here and for the Austraiian community at large to have their point of view and the legislation considered adequately. There is no doubt that if one has a look at the existing legislation one would see that there is a wide area which I think many people would like to have updated. I think it is necessary that we should not only consider the matter in complete detail in regard to the Australian Capital Territory but also, bearing in mind that this is a national Parliament, should consider its ramifications in our individual electorates. Are we to be denied the opportunity to do that? Of course we will be if the debate is to be restricted, lt is important that the Labor Party, having put forward a Bill such as this, should give the members of this place an opportunity to discuss this legislation. 1 am interested to know why the Leader of the House, in the motion that he has proposed, is concerned only about the debate on the second reading. Presumably his motion means that the Bill can continue without restraint in the Committee and third reading stages. I would be interested to hear the comments of the Leader of the House on this aspect. The second reading stage, of course, is only part of the procedures normally involved in this House for the passage of a Bill. It seems strange to me that we are not to be given an adequate opportunity to consider the whole of this matter at the second reading stage. But it seems even stranger that, if the Government wishes to curtail the debate, the time for consideration during the Committee and third reading stages should not also be restricted. Apparently the Government intends that only the second reading debate is to be restricted. I find this to be quite peculiar. 
The fundamental point which I wish to raise is that I oppose restraints on speaking time in this House. 1 believe that there should be every opportunity for us to be able to consider and discuss a matter of this character which is of such tremendous interest to the community. 1 think thai the community needs to be able to consider and examine this legislation. I do not believe '.hat a motion of this character reflects credit on the Leader of the House or provides for due consideration which should be given to such a tremendously significant matter. If you had not been so harsh on me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I would like to have spoken about the consequences that I can see of an inadequate consideration of a Bill of this sort. But, of course, I must accept the ruling that you have given. 
I guess I will be one of the members who will not be allowed to take part in the debate on the Bill. This is something which I think that members of our electorates and the Australian community need to recognise. The Labor Party, having presented a Bill, is now denying us the opportunity to speak to it. The Labor Party, having generated the biggest flow of correspondence that I think any member of this House can recall in recent times, and the Labor Party in government, not having given us the additional secretarial assistance that I think we would all need to enable us to reply adequately to this correspondence, will now not give us time even to talk about the Bill. 
There is no doubt that the Labor Party has generated this abortion by consent Bill, as I like to think of it in its short title form. It is a Bill which certainly needs adequate debate in this Parliament. I believe that we each need to be able to discuss the matter. It is a Bill which is of tremendous community interest and which cannot be passed in the way that perhaps some other Bills can without full and adequate debate. For that reason I am very concerned with the form of this Bill. I understand that a motion is proposed which will enable the Labor Party, if it wishes to impose a restraint on the conduct of the Bill, to allocate the time available for honourable members to speak to it. Personally I am opposed to any restraint on the time for the debate. I believe that it would be far better if this motion were defeated in its entirety. 
 I call the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. 

Order! 1 do not think there is any substance to the point of order. 
I do not know whether 1 was hearing correctly when I heard the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  a former Prime Minister, firstly take credit for this Bill which is before the House and secondly state that LiberalCountry Party governments have a creditable record in this area. I will deal with that later. I would like to congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  who is the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for the speed with which they have acted in this matter. For the record and for the information of the right honourable member for Lowe I would like to run through the sequence of events that occurred in regard to this measure and contrast them with the sequence of events under previous Liberal-Country Party governments. Professor Pollard's report on the inquiry into updating superannuation payments was tabled in this House on 10th April 1973. The Superannuation Bill 1973 was presented to the Parliament for consideration on 2nd May 1973. 
Anybody who is a statistician - and I can see one honourable member on the other side of the House who has had considerable experience in this field making notes so he might check me out on the dates and the figures that I have - would know that 23 days have elapsed, including Saturdays and Sundays, since the date of the tabling of this report and significantly only 5 parliamentary working days have elapsed since the presentation of Professor Pollard's report to this Parliament. I would like to contrast this speed with the speed of previous governments. 
Previous Liberal-Country Party governments had plenty of opportunities to do something in this area. I think that when I present some of these facts and figures to the House honourable members will agree with me that they will show that previous governments have had a complete lack of interest in the retired Commonwealth public servant. For the record I will just quote the details. In late 1967 the then Liberal-Country Party Government under the leadership of the late revered  Mr Harold  Holt - and I say 'revered' deliberately because he was a gentleman who was widely respected by both sides of the Parliament - adjusted superannuation entitlements of retired Commonwealth public servants on what would have been their effective entitlements as at 30th June 1967. There was then a lapse of 4 years and the McMahon Government in October 1971 somewhat reluctantly adjusted the retired Commowealth pensioners' benefits to their effective entitlements as at 30th June 1971. This legislation was introduced not only because of the inequitable treatment which was given to retired Commonwealth public servants by previous Liberal-Country Party governments, but also because of the distribution of the surplus of $14,779,000 which arose from the 9th quinquennial investigation of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund as at 30th June 1967. I ask honourable members to mark that date - 30th June 1967. The date today is 15th May 1973. The 9th quinquennial review report was presented to this Parliament on 8th March 1972 - this also represents somewhat of a lapse of time - as was the 48th annual report of the Commonwealth Superannuation Board for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
I point out that at the time the Commonwealth Superannuation Board was under the ministerial control of the present Leader of the 
Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  who succeeded the right honourable member for Lowe - the previous Prime Minister - as Treasurer. It is also interesting to note that this report when presented by the then Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  somewhat late was never dealt with. This showed great inactivity not only on the part of the previous Prime Minister but also on the part of the present Leader of the Opposition. lt is also interesting to note that Professor Pollard on page 1 of his report on his inquiry into superannuation and pension updating, said: 
On 13th November 1972 I accepted an invitation from the then Prime Minister to conduct an independent non-parliamentary inquiry into the methods of adjusting Commonwealth Superannuation . . . Fund pensions after retirement. By letter dated 8th January 1973 the Prime Minister confirmed that the Inquiry should proceed . . . 
We find that the right honourable member for Lowe, when he was the Prime Minister, asked Professor Pollard on 13th November 1972 to conduct this inquiry. Everybody knows that this was after the date on which the Parliament rose for the election. So the only conclusion that any clear thinking person can come to is that this was, as my friend the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  has pointed out to me, a pure political stunt. The then Government was trying to win back the waning number of its supporters. 
It is also interesting to note that Professor Pollard had been asked in his terms of reference to conduct an inquiry into the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. After some dilatoriness I think that things are happening, or have happened already. Obviously the stunt by the former Prime Minister did not succeed because on 8th December he was thrown out of office and then we saw a great deal of activity in this Parliament. Having said all that, I think I have destroyed effectively what the right honourable member for Lowe said when he took credit for the Bill that is before the House. Any clear thinking person would see from the arguments presented that neither he nor his successor as Treasurer, the present Leader of the Opposition, is in a position to take any credit. The credit should rightly go not only to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  but to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for the speed with which they dealt with this matter. Let it be clearly understood and let there be no ambiguity about the fact that this measure was introduced because the present Labor Government is an active Government. 
Indeed, I have shown that the previous Government was most inactive. 
This measure is much needed and that is an admirable exercise in swift action. Commonwealth Public Service pensioners should never have to wait on the charity of the government of the day as practised by former governments. A formula of automatic annual adjustments at any time during the period of previous Liberal-Country Party governments would have met the wishes of all Commonwealth Public Service organisations and unions. But they did not get it from previous governments. They are now obtaining it from this Government and full credit must be given to those who introduced this measure so soon after coming into office. Commonwealth Public Service pensioners have waited a long time for this type of measure and this type of justice. That is all it is - justice. Having read Professor Pollard's report thoroughly I have come to the conclusion that he has not been over-generous in his recommendations. The recommended adjustment is based only on the Commonwealth's share of the payments to the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund and not on the contributors' share - the amount that the ordinary person in the Service pays in to the superannuation fund. The retired Commonwealth public servant is getting absolutely no credit at all in this report for his portion of the contributions. To that extent I would say that this legislation does not represent the bonanza that has been played up in the Press. 
There is one other matter that I would like to touch on in the short time I have available. Last week there was tabled in this House a Treasury committee report on proposed adjustments to the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund. ] only hope that the Treasurer and the Prime Minister will have a careful look at the recommendations and will not accept the report in its entirety. I know that the Treasurer and the Prime Minister will consult with the appropriate unions on this matter. There are many aspects of the recommendations that have been put forward by the Treasury committee with which I do not agree. For example, there is nothing in the report on commutation, for which provision is made by the present New South Wales Government. If we are to continue to be a government of activity and one with a forward looking approach, as we have shown and as we will show in the future, I would commend to the Treasurer - I see that he is in the chamber and is listening intently to what I have to say - and the Prime Minister the desirability of having a good clear look at the Treasury recommendations, because I believe they fall down in many areas. There will have to be a lot of consultation with Commonwealth Public Service associations and unions before the detailed recommendations are implemented in their entirety. I would like to see the Treasurer actively consult with the unions and associations in this regard and then bring down before this House a really comprehensive review of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund. It has never ben done before. It needs to be done in the future. I am very hopeful that the Whitlam Government will be forward looking enough to do something for the benefit of all Commonwealth public servants, both those in the Public Service at the present time and those who have retired. 

Order! I realise that the honourable member for Bennelong may be slightly provocative and I realise also that the Minister has had a very trying time with the long hours of the sitting, but if honourable members could contain themselves I am certain that we would get through the business of the House a lot quicker. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
I was most interested in the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who stated mat the Opposition supports the Bill. He said that procedures will be simplified. I wholeheartedly agree with him, but the thought entered my mind when he was speaking that although the present Opposition was  23  years in office it made no attempt at all to streamline procedures as has been done by this Government. I wish to reply to some points raised by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. He said that the Opposition rejects the policy of using the Public Service as a pace setter. I suggest that that is the real difference between the Opposition and the Government. The Government accepts that the Commonwealth Public Service should be a pace setter. Before entering this Parliament I worked for  34  years in the Commonwealth Public Service. During that period I was frustrated as an official of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association by the attitudes of the previous Government. It went before arbitration tribunals and actively opposed propositions which had been put forward by registered unions and organisations. One wonders why the Deputy Leader of the Opposition should now say that the Public Service Board should not be used as an arm of government. The present Opposition when in office used the Public Service Board as an arm of government, as abundant evidence has established. For instance, I refer to the arbitral determinations affecting the Commonwealth Public Service by the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator and the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. They show that the present Opposition when in office was active against salary increases and improvements in working conditions. 
I turn now to the Bill. Due credit must be given to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for once again introducing legislation which will streamline the procedures applicable to the administrative practices of the Commonwealth Public Service. This Bill is another indication of the clear thinking which commenced on  2  December  1972  upon the election of a Labor Government. No action was taken by previous Liberal-Country Party governments which for  23  years held the reigns of office to introduce what should have been clearly apparent to them as a simple procedural measure. The position is, prior to the passage of this legislation, that where a permanent head of a department is absent or unavailable, or when an office is vacant, the GovernorGeneral may, under Public Service Regulation  116  direct another officer to perform on a temporary basis the duties of that office. However, where the duties comprise the exercise of statutory powers and functions under other Acts, those powers and functions at present cannot be performed and exercised unless there is also a written direction by the Governor-General under section  88  of the Commonwealth Public Service Act. 
By amending section  88  this Bill obtains the same result without the necessity for such action by the Governor-General. It is quite a simple amendment of the Commonwealth Public Service Act. Is it any wonder that the Australian people have realised, as evidenced by the most recently published Australian National Opinion Poll figures, that the Federal Labor Government under the Prime Ministership of  Mr Whitlam  is the most constructive and progressive government of this decade? I am certain that  His Excellency  the Governor-General will appreciate the fact that this Bill will lessen the paper work thrust upon him. He must surely have sufficient paper work to perform without any additional unnecessary paper work. 
Another matter I wish to raise affects the people who occupy the positions of permanent heads of departments as set out in 
Schedule 3 of the Bill. The salaries and allowances of permanent heads, with the exception of 5 positions, were altered by the Remuneration and Allowances Act No. 14 of 1973. Two of the exceptions are the  Clerk  of the House of Representatives and the  Clerk  of the Senate. 1 hope that I am not creating any personal embarrassment to either of those distinguished gentlemen by raising these matters. I am pleased that the  Clerk  of the House of Representatives is not present in the chamber at the moment as I might embarrass him by raising these matters. All permanent heads of departments as set out in Schedule 3, but not including the  Clerk  of theHouse of Representatives and the  Clerk  of the Senate, receive a salary of $29,250 a year and an additional annual allowance of $1,750, making a total of $31,000 a year. The  Clerk  of the House of Representatives and the  Clerk  of the Senate, who are classified as permanent heads of a department under Schedule 3 of the Bill, receive $22,012 a year, with no allowances at all. This means that the permanent heads of all departments other than those of this Parliament receive $8,988 more than the most senior office holders of our Parliament. In practical terms this also lowers their status. 
It is possible that the  Clerk  of the House of Representatives and the  Clerk  of the Senate have felt reticent about raising such matters with all the governments which they have served so capably and faithfully. However, I feel that these matters should be drawn to the attention of members of Parliament, who are the legislators. For the information of honourable members I would like it placed on record that the same situation does not apply in other parliaments of the Commonwealth of Nations. The Clerks of the House of Commons and the House of Lords are given the full status and salary of a permanent head. This policy also applies to the Clerks of both Houses of the Parliament of Canada. 
The argument can be put with a great deal of validity that the status of the most senior office holders of this Parliament - the  Clerk  of the House of Representatives and the  Clerk  of the Senate - should not be placed in a position less favourable than that of the permanent heads of other departments as set out in Schedule 3 of the Bill. Unless this situation is rectified it will as a natural consequence denigrate the status of the Parliament itself. I hope that when these matters of status and salary are next considered by the Government the matters I have raised will receive the consideration that they undoubtedly deserve. I commend the initiative of the Government in bringing Public Service Bill (No. 2) before this House for its consideration. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Is the Minister for Science aware that the Georges River in Sydney, which was once a beautiful river abounding with fish and a delight to swim in, in now so badly polluted in some parts that even the fish have great difficulty in making their way upstream? Has the Minister any plans which will enable this once beautiful river to be brought back to its natural state? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. In view of the attempts being made by the Opposition to discredit the Minister as Treasurer will he give an assurance to the nation that in the Budget it is not his intention to sock the poor and ordinary people but only to honour pre-election pledges given by the Australian Labor Party to share tax burdens more evenly than was done under past Liberal-Country Party governments. 
 I was very interested in the remarks of the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland).  To my mind he was acting as an apologist for the inaction of his own previous Government. I want to refer briefly to a few of the points that he made. One of his points was that demands for revenue by this Government will be too great. I can assure the honourable member for Curtin that that will not be so. Great amounts of revenue can be obtained simply by blocking the tax avoidance schemes which this series of Bills proposes to do. For the information of members of the House I would like to correct a statement made by the honourable member for Curtin. He said that most of these tax avoidance scheme Bills had been announced by the previous Government. 
That is not so, and I shall establish this in my speech. The previous Government had plenty of time to bring down measures to curtail tax avoidance but did very little. It was only by constant pressing from my own side of the House when we were in Opposition that we finally forced the then Treasurer to bring down a Bill on dividend stripping, which in my opinion should have been introduced years earlier. If that had happened this country and the revenue collecting authorities would have been saved hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue. 
Three Bills - the Income Tax Assessment Bill, the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) and the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 3) - are to be discussed together in this debate. Due to the extremely complex nature of the income tax legislation, the time allowed to me will permit me to deal only with some of the provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Bill. I point out that this Bill was introduced into the Parliament by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on 11 April 1973. So, the Opposition, with the members that it has, has had plenty of time to consider these Bills in detail. I congratulate the Treasurer on introducing these measures so swiftly after this Government took office. This should be remembered: We took office only on 2 December 1972. These measures should effectively close up some of the tax loopholes which have existed for many years. 
The previous Government, under successive Prime Ministers and constantly changing Treasurers over a period of 23 years, took no action to plug the gaps. Those Prime Ministers and Treasurers stand condemned for allowing these tax loopholes to remain unplugged. As I have said in this House on many occasions - the Hansard record will evidence this - the Liberal-Country Party governments have consistently looked after their erstwhile friends, namely, the wealthy taxpayers and large companies who, with the aid of skilled members of the legal fraternity and shrewd tax avoidance specialist accountants, have robbed the revenue of this country of hundreds of millions of dollars. I have said this in this House before and I will say it again. I quote the words of a highly respected Second Commissioner of Taxation,  Mr P.  J. Lanigan, who said: 'Taxation avoidance is a social evil'. 
The taxation burdens which those wealthy people should have borne have, under suc cessive Liberal-Country Party governments, been carried by those least able to carry them - the ordinary people of Australia, the battlers, the young marrieds and the middle income earners who have neither the wherewithal nor the desire to engage in these nefarious schemes. Let me say this to that wealthy section of the community which has thumbed its nose at the revenue collecting authorities for over a decade: The honeymoon is over; the day of retribution is at hand. 
A word of sincere appreciation must be given to those capable, trustworthy, honest and efficient officers of the Taxation Office who, at short notice and with great skill, have prepared this legislation at the request of the first Labor Government in 23 years. I include in the laudatory praise the officers of the Department from the Commissioner,  Sir Edward  Cain, down to his highly skilled group on the legislative side and right through the Central Office of the taxation administration and also the officers in the Taxation Office in each State, who have performed their work with such capacity, capability, industriousness and industry that they are deserving of the highest commendation. It is well known that there are other tax loopholes to be plugged, and I have no doubt that in the near future the Treasurer will introduce additional legislation which will spell further doom for that wealthy section of the community which has no social conscience. 
Having said that, I should like to get on to a more detailed explanation of some of the provisions of the Bill. Eminent speakers from this side of the House will cover particular phases of the Bill in more detail. I propose to deal, in the first instance, with companies with accumulated losses. The present law is that a company can deduct its prior year losses if it satisfies tests: Either a 'continuing ownership test' - that is, persons owning 40 per cent of its capital, voting and dividend right throughout the year of loss own similar rights throughout the year of deduction; or, alternatively, a 'same business test' - that is, it carries on the same business throughout the year of deduction as it carried on immediately before a disqualifying change in its shareholdings. Special additional provisions apply in respect of newly-incorporated loss companies. Special provisions apply also, in certain circumstances, which enable the continuing ownership test to have regard to the indirect rights in the loss company of natural persons who are shareholders in companies interposed between those persons and the loss company. 
There have been many abuses of the present law. Proprietors of profitable businesses have been buying up to 60 per cent of the shares in company 'shells' with accumulated losses and then transfering their business operations to the loss company to offset those losses against the profits of the transferred businesses. Prima facie, the 40 per cent continuing shareholders are entitled to 40 per cent of those profits, but in practice their shares are worthless. The present law incorporates safeguards against arrangements between the 40 per cent 'old' shareholders and the loss purchasers. There are certain inadequacies in these safeguards and also in those provisions which enable continuing interest in the loss company to be traced through interposed companies. 
A common method of achieving a tax avoidance situation is for the loss company's creditors to assign their claims to the loss purchaser for a nominal sum. Alternatively, the loss purchaser may become a creditor on transfer of some of his business operations to the loss company. In either case, the profits of the loss company are applied in payment of those debts, so that the 'old' shareholders, namely, 40 per cent or more as the case may be, are effectively shut out of any share in those profits. When the losses have been deducted, the position is that the 'old' shareholders sell their worthless shareholding to the loss purchaser for what he is prepared to give. The loss company's profits to this point remain available to meet the loss purchaser's claim on the company as a creditor. 
In addition to these arrangements, the special provisions relating to newlyincorporated companies are also being widely mis-used to avoid tax on profitable businesses. Some indication of the scale of tax avoidance involved in the trafficking in past year company losses is evident from advertisements appearing regularly in financial newspapers. Losses required or for purchase, ranging up to  $lm  are common; in one case a loss company with $2. 5m in 'guaranteed tax losses' was offered for acquisition. I seek leave to have some of these advertisements incorporated in Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows) - 

<graphic href="084131197305315_26_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="084131197305315_27_0.jpg"></graphic>

Honourable members will note that those advertisements in the 'Australian Financial Review' date from 10 March 1971 to 27 October 1972. I pose this question now: Why did the previous Government not take any action when there were advertisements dating back as far as 10 March 1971 which set out in some cases losses for sale of more than $lm? I think that effectively disproves the claims made by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  that the Government at that time - the now Opposition - had any intention of ever introducing this legislation. 
It is proposed in the Bill to strengthen the continuing ownership test' and to incorporate additional safeguarding provisions against artificial compliance with it. The amendments in this Bill will, firstly, increase the 40 per cent continuing ownership test to require  a  more than 50 per cent continuity of capital, dividend and voting rights in the loss company; secondly, remedy certain deficiencies in the safeguarding provisions relating to arrangements intended to defeat the purpose of the continuing ownership test; thirdly, remedy deficiencies in the existing tracing provisions to enable continuing interests in the loss company to be traced to natural persons through companies, trustees and partnerships interposed between the loss company and those natural persons; fourthly, enable the loss deduction to be denied in certain circumstances where the benefit of tax loss deduction is to be derived by 'outsiders' or where it is clear that the continuing shareholders in the loss company are not intended to receive the full monetary benefits of their apparent continuing interest in the company; and, fifthly, repeal the special provision relating to newlyincorporated companies. The operation of the same business test' is not affected by the amendments. In general, the dates on which the amendments will come into operation are set out in the Bill. 
I turn now to bad debts which are written off after changes in shareholdings. The present law is that a deduction is available for debts owed to a company that are written off as irrecoverable in the year of income if the debts have been included in assessable income of the company or are in respect of loans made by the company as a money lender in the ordinary course of business. The company has the choice of when it writes off such debts as bad, irrespective of when they became so. Some other special kinds of debts may be deductible in the year in which they become bad. There are no restrictions under the present law relating to the deduction of company bad debts, such as the 'continuing ownership test' and the 'same business test' which apply to the deduction of past year company losses. 
I will now instance some of the abuses. The shares in insolvent companies with substantial ammounts of potentially bad debts on their books are purchased for a nominal consideration by highly profitable groups with  a  view to writing off the debts for deduction against income that will be diverted to the insolvent bad debt companies. Some such cases have involved extremely large amounts of debts. Remedies are proposed in this Bill to prevent this type of tax avoidance. The bad debts provisions of the present law are open to substantially the same tax avoidance devices as have been employed in relation to past year company losses. Bad debts are in substance unrealised past year losses. Basic tests and safeguards similar to the losses proposals are incorporated in this Bill. Debts which are bad at the time of a shareholding change will be treated in the same way as other losses established at that time. A debt which is not bad when shareholdings change will not be affected. Under this Bill a deduction for a bad debt will be available to a company which, subject to the same safeguarding provisions as are to apply for company losses, satisfies, firstly, the continuing business test, portion of which I have previously explained, and, secondly, the same business test, portion of which I have also previously explained. The application of the amendments to the Act is set out in the Bill.  1  turn now to the companies with excess distributions of profits. The present law provides that a private company is required ito distribute a certain level of its profits - called a 'sufficient distribution' - as dividends within a prescribed period, that is, the  12  months commencing  2  months before the end of the income year, or pay an undistributed profits tax of  50  per cent of the amount, which is called the 'undistributed amount', by which dividends paid in the period fall short of a sufficient distribution of that year's profits. Under the present law, dividends paid by a company in excess of its sufficient distribution for an income year can be carried forward without restriction to be treated as a dividend paid by the company when determining the sufficient distribution required of its profits for a subsequent income year. 
However, the present law is being misused. That is why it has been necessary to introduce this legislation. There are no provisions in the present law to prevent proprietors of private companies with profitable businesses from acquiring shares in company 'shells' with excess distributions, transferring their business operations to the 'shells' and offsetting the excess distributions against sufficient distributions required in respect of the profits of the transferred businesses. The end result of all of this is that the excess distribution provides relief from undistributed income tax, which is at  50  per cent, or personal income tax, which is usually at a high marginal rate in view of the fact that wealthy taxpayers and companies are seeking advantages from it, for a new set of shareholders in relation to the profits of a different business. Excess distributions ranging up to $2m have been advertised regularly in at least one financial daily. I have no fear of naming it. It is the 'Australian Financial Review*. 
The remedies proposed under this Bill are that the excess distributions of a private company should be taken into account for undistributed income tax purposes only if it satisfies tests similar in principle to those which are to apply to the deduction of past year company loses. Subject to similar safeguarding provisions, the excess distribution will be taken into account if the private company satisfies either a continuing ownership test, which I have previously explained, or a same business test, which I have also previously explained. These amendments will have application from the dates set out in the Bill. 
New provisions will apply in relation to certain private company dividends. A more than  50  per cent continuing ownership test and an alternative same business test are proposed for undistributed income tax purposes in respect of dividends paid by a private company during the last 2 months of an income year. Without those tests these dividends could be used by new shareholders before they become, technically, an excess distribution, and thus provide scope for avoiding the full effect of the excess distribution tests. The purpose of this legislation is to close up another tax avoidance scheme. 
As I am running short of time, I will confine my remarks to a few closing comments. In my view the dividend stripping legislation came in too late. I do not believe that that was the fault of the officers of the Taxation Office: I blame the previous Government for it. There are tax havens other than Norfolk Island, which was mentioned by the honourable member for Curtin. The previous Treasurer announced, following constant pressing from me, that the Norfolk Island tax gap would be closed, However, the previous Government refused to answer the question I placed on the paper which sought to find out the names of some of the shareholders and directors of the companies using Norfolk Island as a tax haven. I do not know what it had to hide, but obviously it had something to hide because it would not answer my questions. 
I have a suggestion to make to the Treasurer about tax havens, one of which is Vila in the New Hebrides, and what can be done to close the gap in relation to Vila and any other tax havens which are thought up by certain scheming people. There is already in the Income Tax Assessment Act a provision known as section 226 which provides that up to a 200 per cent penalty - it is not called a penalty in the Act; it is called an additional income tax - can be imposed by the Commissioner at his discretion in cases of tax avoidance or, as it is called in the Act, tax evasion. I would suggest, for the consideration of the Treasurer, in relation to those companies, many of which are Australian, which are using Vila in the New Hebrides as a tax avoidance scheme and are somewhat difficult to get under the existing legislation, that he should make an announcement or determine a policy whereby they will be forced in some way to make a full and true disclosure of the relevant particulars of any tax avoidance scheme at the time of the first income tax return lodged after the one for that tax avoidance scheme was due for lodgement. He could have inserted in the Income Tax Assessment Act a provision which says if they do not disclose the tax avoidance scheme in their return the Taxation Office will, when it finds out - and it will find out - impose a full 200 per cent penalty. In other words, give them a choice of owning up. 
They should not be permitted to avoid contributing to the revenue of this country. The people who cannot afford to do so should not be forced to contribute the share of these companies. Give them the opportunity to be honest citizens, if they can possibly be called that. If they are not prepared to be honest citizens, apply the full rigours of the law and impose under section 226 a 200 per cent omitted income penalty. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a debate covering both Bills? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I preface my question by referring to the continuing public discussion in Australia concerning the need for a single Australia-wide companies law and the absence in Australia of proper securities and exchange administrative facilities. Did the report by Professor Loss, professor of law from Harvard University, who is an expert in company law and securities and exchange law, which was presented by the Minister to this House last week deal with the subject? If so, can the Minister say whether the Government agrees with the recommendations in the report? What steps does the Government propose to take to have these recommendations implemented? 
Order! 
Has the Minister for Immigration seen reports of the failure of the settlement of Ugandan Asians in Britain? Is it a fact that since October 1972 Ugandan Asians have been in hostel accommodation in Sydney? What is the position in relation to these refugees? Does our experience parallel that of the British? 

Order! As it is now 2 hours after the time fixed for the meeting of the House, the debate on the motion is interrupted. 
Motion (by  Mr Connor)  agreed to: 
That the time for the discussion of notice No. 1, General Business, be extended to 12.45 p.m. 
The present Government's policy about fuel and energy is quite specific. The Australian Labor Party platform states that Labor will establish a national fuel and energy commission to devise and implement an integrated and co-ordinated national fuel and energy policy. I think that no one takes great issue with that. We are all concerned that the generations that follow us have the same access to fuel and fuel reserves as does the present generation. It is a matter of great concern that we should plan to conserve reserves for the use of those who follow. This concept is by no means a new concept. The need for co-ordination was recognised by the previous Government and the previous Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  and positive moves were being made towards planning how future energy needs were to be met. One of the men who was at the forefront of thinking about energy policy for the future was the late  Sir Harold  Ragett. In his book published in 1969 he emphasised the need for a co-ordinated energy policy, which took into account all major energy sources - coal, oil, natural gas and uranium.  Sir Harold  Ragett pointed out that the Australian fuel and power scene had changed very much over a period of 15 years. Australian resources are very much larger than had been thought previously. Oil and uranium have been discovered in relatively significant quantities. 
However, even as late as 1969,  Sir Harold  Ragett did not mention the grave energy crisis which the great industrialised areas of the world are facing. An energy crisis must have an effect upon Australia when its full impact is felt in Europe, the United States of America and Japan. There will be increasing pressures upon Australia in future years to sell gas, coal and uranium. The need for a coordinated plan is becoming more urgent as time goes on. Let us consider now what  President  Nixon said in April 1973 about the problems of the United States. What happens there today becomes our problem tomorrow. He said: 
Our energy demands have grown so rapidly that they now strip our available supplies, and at present rate of growth, our energy needs a dozen years from now will be nearly double what they were in 1970. 
Clearly, we are facing a vitally important energy change. If present trends continue, we could face a genuine energy crisis. 
Since  President  Nixon's speech the situation in the United States has worsened because of the threatened witholding of oil by the Arab countries. The significance of this as far as Australia is concerned was spelt out in great detail by the proposer of this motion, the honourable member for McMillan. The United States is turning towards coal, of which she has vast quantities, to take some of the demand which would have- been met by oil. But in this area she is also in trouble, because, as  Mr Nixon  has said: 
We have vast quantities of coal, but the extraction and use of coal have presented such persistent environmental problems that, today, less than 20 per cent of our energy needs are met by coal and the health of the coal industry is seriously threatened. 
These are the things which initiated the idea in the mind of the honourable member for McMillan many years ago when he was in the Victorian House of Parliament and which he is pursuing in this forum. Fortunately Australia has time to lay down plans for her future energy needs. However, that time is rather limited. On the present known reserves and with an accelerating usage rate, the oil resources in Australia might last for 20 to 25 years, that is, assuming we find more. I think it is pertinent to remind the nation of the thoughts expressed by the honourable member for Farrer. There has been a decline in oil prospecting in this country and the Government has a responsibility to realign its thinking in this matter. These are matters of great importance. The Government must realise that the only way in which oil search, will be accelerated is by giving an impetus and an incentive to free enterprise to set up drilling camps in desert areas and to drill in off-shore areas with the prospect of financial reward if they are lucky enough to strike an oil flow. We have sufficient natural gas to take us well into the first half of the next century and probably beyond. If we go in for nuclear power during the 1980s and retain our present reserves, or at least control their export, we will have sufficient fuel for electricity to see us through the first half of the 21st century. Reserves of brown coal are substantial, amounting to 85,000 million tons in Victoria, but only 10,000 million tons would be recoverable with current technology and economics. 
It is also worthy to print out that in the State of Queensland the known reserves are 3,400 million tons. It is good quality coal, some coking and some steaming coal. In my own area of the Darling Downs there are vast areas of coal in what is known as the Millmerran basin and also in the basin east of Warwick. It is good to recount that at the present time the Queensland Government is considering, among other matters, the allocation of some Millmerran coal for the purpose of supplying the fuel needs of a new power station to be set up. This is the type of decentralisation that we should be encouraging to get away from the established coalfields out into other areas where deposits of good quality coking and steaming coal are known to exist. 
I come back to the point of the motion moved so ably by my colleague the honourable Member for McMillan, particularly as it applies o brown coal in the State of Victoria. It is true to record that the world has some techniques for getting oil and synthetic products out of black coal, particularly in Germany. The position in Victoria will create a great deal of interest in the years to come. For the information of members of the House, there is a quickening of interest in the use of Victoria's huge brown coal reserves as a raw material for making synthetic oil. The multi-million dollar technique is known as hydrogenation - adding hydrogen to the coal to bring it to the hydrogen-carbon mix of the oil and natural gas hydrocarbons instead of having coal's preponderance of carbon. While the technique is simple in theory, it has only recently become the subject of the sustained research needed for practical use and is still prohibitively expensive. But, as my colleague the honourable member for McMillan pointed out, with the world's developing energy crunch and the sharply rising price of crude oil internationally, interest has grown in making use of coal as an oil source. One of the cheapest sources of hydrogen for hydrogenation is methane, the main component of natural gas, and in present conditions this gives an extra advantage to the Gippsland and the Latrobe Valley area - about which the honourable member for McMillan spoke so eloquently - with its proximity to the Bass Strait fields. However, hydrogen can be obtained more expensively from water, air and other substances but its use is still in need of much more research. 
I am pleased to be associated with my colleague the honourable member for McMillan in the outstanding contribution and display of statesmanship that he has exhibited in this House. I congratulate him, not only for his concern for his own generation but for his concern for the future of those who will follow us. It would be good if honourable members opposite occasionally forgot about the present and looked to the future, as did my colleague. I congratulate the honourable member for McMillan on his sincerity of purpose, his honesty of presentation and his concern for those who will follow him. 

Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Order! There is no point of order involved. 
The Board is an independent statutory authority which has an advisory function only. It has no executive role. The essence of the Tariff Board system is that it makes public inquiries and public reports on questions of assistance for industry referred to it by the Government. The Government proposes to extend this system to industries in other sectors of the economy because it believes the system has, over a long period, proved its value to successive governments in an important and difficult area of government decision making. The first and most important reason for establishing the Commission is to allow public scrutiny of the process whereby governments decide how much assistance to give to different industries. This scrutiny is necessary because of the highly selective nature of the process. Measures which assist particular industries constitute forms of economic discrimination which, at least in the short term, can be to considerable advantage to the industries assisted and to the disadvantage to those who pay for the assistance, namely, other industries, consumers, or taxpayers. Such a process must be independent and impartial, and seem to be independent and impartial. 
The Crawford report indicates that Tariff assistance to manufacturing industries totals several thousand million dollars a year. Assistance to the rural sector involves several hundred million dollars a year. The Government has increasingly made public inquiries, public scrutiny and public reports the basis for major policy decisions. It is important to appreciate fully what the phrase 'public inquiries and reports' will really mean under this proposal. It means wide advertisement, in newspapers and by circulars, of matters referred to the Commission. It means public hearings, at which interested parties can support or oppose industries' claims for assistance. It means prompt availability of those hearings. It means the systematic collection and analysis by the Commission and other organisations of information relevant to the Commission's inquiries. It means that most of this information should be available for public scrutiny during the course of particular inquiries. And it means that the Commission should be able to call disinterested expert witnesses. Finally, it means public reports which explain in detail the reasons for the Commission's recommendations. In short, the words 'public inquiries and reports' denote a deliberate, orderly and widely accessible system of communication between the Government, industry and the wider public. 
The application to all industries of the advisory system which has long been accepted for manufacturing industries is necessary in the interests of fair dealing and open dealing. It is necessary also because it can contribute to a better use of the nation's resources. By this 1 mean a use of resources more attuned to the commonly accepted objectives of government policy. There are several reasons why the Industries Assistance Commission should be able to make a unique contribution in this area. The first stems essentially from the fact that the Commission will be a single institution, with the responsibility for advising on the assistance which should be given to industries in all sectors of the economy. It will therefore be very conscious of the need to develop a rational and consistent approach towards all industries. This Government has inherited a complex, confusing and inconsistent collection of measures which discriminate between individual industries - particularly as between primary and secondary sectors of the economy. In many cases, the total amount of the assistance afforded particular industries is obscure, and its effects are even more obscure. We propose to substitute a deliberate, systematic, and comprehensive program of public inquiries for the rather random, haphazard, and sometimes informal and superficial process of investigation of the past. 
A second reason why the Commission can contribute to a better use of the nation's resources stems from its status as an independent statutory authority. The Commission will be able to develop .and pursue a long term program of inquiries, . free from day-to-day political pressures. This in turn has very important implications for the amount and quality of its information and for the depth of analysis which the Commission can undertake. This of course includes analysis of the effects of its recommendations on the use of resources in different industries. For example, industries which are comparatively wasteful in their use of resources and which impose a significant cost on the community can be systematically examined through' public inquiries, and obliged to justify any special assistance they receive from the Government by demonstrating the benefits they bring to the community. The Commission will be obliged, through its public reports, to explain why it considers that certain industries should receive more assistance than others. 
I propose now to consider some of the more important clauses in the Bill and the reasons for them. 
Clause 21 states that the functions of the Commission are to hold inquiries and make reports '. . . in respect of matters affecting assistance to industries and other matters that may be referred to the Commission . . .'. This clause covers any industry, whether in the primary, secondary or tertiary sector of the economy. It is therefore the clause which gives effect to the Government's wish to extend the present advisory system for manufacturing industries based on the Tariff Board. Together with clause 23 (2), which allows the Commission to consider all possible forms of assistance for a particular industry, clause 21 provides the basis for systematic analysis of the structure of industry assistance in Australia, and thus for evolving a more coherent and rational policy by the Government towards industrial development. 
Clause 22 provides certain policy guidelines for the Commission which place the work of the Commission firmly in the framework of general economic management. The guidelines will also help those making submissions for assistance from the Government by providing a basis for them to relate their claims to the public interest. They also make clear the need for Australia's assistance policies to recognise our international trade obligations. 
Clause 23 contains several very important provisions, including one which states that the Government shall not take any action to provide assistance to a particular industry until it has received a report on the matter from the Commission. 
This so-called 'mandatory provision' is a more restricted version of a similar provision that has been in the Tariff Board Act since 1921. It is an essential safeguard to the integrity of the system. It ensures that all groups which may be affected by a change in the assistance afforded a particular industry - those who stand to lose as well as those who stand to gain - will have an equal opportunity to express their views at a public inquiry. It will be apparent that the reference to the Commission of questions relating to assistance for individual industries cannot be optional: If some industries, particularly those which stand to lose most from public exposure of their claims, can avoid the process of public inquiry the fundamental purpose of the Commission will be frustrated. 
There are several important qualification!! to the mandatory provision which should be noted. First, although the provision obliges the Government to seek the advice of the Commission on all questions of assistance to individual industries, it does not oblige the Government to accept that advice. Like the Tariff Board, the Commission is to have an advisory role only. The ultimate responsibility for deciding what courses of action to take and what policies to adopt resides with Parliament. Secondly, the mandatory provision relates to questions of assistance to individual industries in the primary and secondary sectors of the economy, but not to industries in the tertiary sector. A large proportion of tertiary activities are either in the public sector, and therefore the direct responsibility of the national, State, or regional governments, or are naturally sheltered from the overseas competition or the instability of overseas markets which prompts most of the claims for assistance from primary or secondary industries. Some tertiary enterprises may seek special assistance, and it will be open to governments to refer such requests to the Commission for advice. This Government intends to do so. The extent to which it can do so early in the life of the Commission will depend in part on prior commitments it has given the Commission, such as the current 6 year review of the tariff. Thirdly, the mandatory provision does not restrict the Government's freedom to make changes of policy such as the recent 25 per cent reduction in tariffs, to negotiate changes in levels of assistance of the purpose of international trade agreements, or to extend preferential treatment to developing countries. And, finally, it does not restrict the Government's capacity to provide urgent temporary financial assistance to industries, for periods not exceeding 12 months. 
Another important provision in clause 23 allows the Government to take action on assistance to a particular industry if the Commission has not reported by a date specified in the reference. This provision enables the Government to set a date by which the Commission must report, which accords with the Government's own priorities in planning the development of an industry. Consequently, the existence of the mandatory provision cannot cause any unreasonable delay in Government decisions on particular industries; nor could it impair the Government's planning role. No restraint is placed on the right of the Australian Government to seek advice from other expert bodies. 
In practice I would expect there to be few cases indeed of conflict between the Government's priorities in relation to the timing of advice from the Commission, and the Commission's capacity to provide advice in accordance with those priorities. As pointed out in  Sir John  Crawford's report it is possible, as the Tariff Board has begun to demonstrate, to program the Commission's inquiry work several years ahead. The absence of long-term and co-ordinated programming of references to the Tariff Board in the past tended to increase the average time required by the Board to prepare its reports. The fact that one Minister will have responsibility for referring matters to the Commission, and that there now exists a permanent interdepartmental committee to keep him informed well before the event on matters likely to be referred to the Commission, should introduce much greater stability into the work of the Commission and greatly reduce uncertainty about the length of its inquiries. This greater opportunity to program ahead means that the Government will have a continuous record of the expected completion dates for particular inquiries - and hence of the priorities which the Commission allots to each element of its total work commitment. With this knowledge, and its capacity to specify when the Commission's report on a particular matter is required, the Government can avoid the possibility of having its ability to act on questions of assistance to particular industries impaired. 
The only other clause on which I propose to comment is that which allows the Commission to inquire into certain matters on its own initiative. This is clause 24. This clause, like the mandatory provision, is central to the concept of the Industries Assistance Commission, and has a parallel in the present Tariff Board Act. In essence, it allows the Commission to initiate inquiries into, and report on, industries whose assistance has been unchanged, or unreviewed, for at least 6 years. It is a safeguard against the indefinite continuation of assistance to particular industries long after it is needed. It is necessary because structures of assistance, like some of the activities they support, can become obsolete. 
The Tariff Board was established in 1921 and it has been an important and respected source of advice to 21 of the 28 Parliaments which have been elected since federation. In replacing the Tariff Board with the Industries Assistance Commission, this Parliament will therefore be taking an historic step. It will, I believe, be a step applauded by this and succeeding parliaments, and by the people of Australia, because it extends a principle that we all approve, in general if not always in particular cases. This is the principle that favours claimed from the Government and through the Government from the Australian public should be publicly examined and favours granted by government should be publicly justified. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Edwards)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Has his attention been drawn to the report of the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd opening a branch in the Channel Islands? Is the Treasurer aware that this bank had previously opened a branch in the New Hebrides? Are both these places well known as tax havens? Does the Treasurer consider that the action of the ANZ Bank, in seeking to encourage tax avoidance, is unAustralian? Will the Treasurer give an assurance to the House that he will take appropriate action to curb this pernicious practice? 

Order! The honourable gentleman will resume his seat. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Daly's)  be agreed to. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing. In view of the latest rise in the cost of home building materials of an average of 1.8 per cent in July in Australia's State capitals, will the Minister give urgent consideration to the substantial savings to be made in housing Australians by the use of large high quality mobile houses? Is it true that such houses are becoming increasingly acceptable all over the world for the many advantages they offer, apart from the main advantage of much lower cost than a conventional home? Does the Government intend to take any action in this field? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that charges made by doctors for third party insurance cases and workers compensation cases are met by the responsible insurance company? What is the position where doctors prescribe drugs that are available under the national health scheme? Do the insurance companies pay for the cost of these prescriptions or  is  it borne by the Commonwealth? If the cost is  borne by the Commonwealth, does the Minister consider that the people of Australia should be subsidising insurance companies in this manner? 
 I do not think that a point of order would be involved unless the Minister could substantiate the fact that the word 'malpractice refers to him. 
There is little doubt that withdrawal of the exemption would have a marked effect on the income of apple growers, especially in the face of current adverse marketing conditions for Australian apples in the Common Market countries. The effect on citrus growers is difficult to measure but it is likely that there would be some falling off in the demand for citrus juice. 
That is a triumph for understatement, particularly in relation to the citrus industry. But in spite of this advice handed on to the Government by  Dr Coombs  the Government has wilfully taken action which will be to the detriment of apple growers and probably to citrus growers as well. Certainly this decision affects apple growers. One can surround this argument with blithe words but if the people opposite who represent the apple industry do not join the Opposition and support the amendment which will be voted on shortly they will stand condemned and damned by their electorates and by the people involved in the apple industry throughout this country. There is no running away from this matter. This is the essence of what is under debate today. 
I have to mention another small matter of some not light political significance in relation to this Bill. It is well known in the apple industry in my State that a member has contacted the industry saying that the entire Caucus Rural Committee unanimously is against the Bill. If need be, I suppose I can obtain some form of proof of this. I say again to the House that this statement came from a member of Parliament in my own State who is a member of the Labor Party. The statement is that the entire Labor Caucus Rural Committee is against this Bill being brought down. Its opposition is unanimous. We will expect a certain amount of help later on the floor of the House from those who are members of that Caucus committee when we divide the Parliament on this legislation. If that help is not forthcoming, some serious questions will be asked in a few electorates in Australia. I do not intend to name that member; I do not think that that would be fair tactics at all. But it is valid for this Opposition to bring that fact to bear at this important time on behalf of those whose incomes have been mentioned, even according to the modest comments of the Coombs report. 
The effect on the industry of this action is assessed as being - I have found it most difficult to obtain any accurate figures in this respect- a cost of $3. 3m in a full year to apple growers. 
I point out that 95 per cent of soft drinks produced in this country today contain Australian fruit juices. The only soft drinks which do not contain these juices are soda water and Indian tonic water. Of that proportion, 80 per cent so used is from the apple industry and the remaining 20 per cent is the result of fruit juicing from the citrus industry. I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard 2 sets of figures. I have not shown these figures to the Minister for Immigration, who is at the table, but I have shown them to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  who has approved of their incorporation. These 2 sets of figures show, first, the amount of apples used for juicing in South Australia and, secondly, the Australian figures for the citrus industry in respect of fruit juices. In both cases the figures are estimates because no accurate figures are available officially on juice production. I can assure the Minister, to whom 
I apologise for not showing him these figures, that the Treasurer has seen them and has approved of their incorporation. 

Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows) - 

<graphic href="086131197311062_22_0.jpg"></graphic>

Apart from the fact, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has already stated, that the Government has foisted a direct increase in the price of soft drinks on the community in general, the Government, by virtue of this measure, has hit at the processing industries in country areas. It has hit very severely at the companies, such as Berri Fruit Juices in my State, which have installed modern extraction plant and which depend for their existence on the intelligent help given to them by previous governments to encourage production and indeed consumption. They will not be satisfied with blithe words such as those spoken by the honourable member for Denison. This is a very real matter to them and it will remain a very real matter. The very basis of country towns in many areas is affected by this sort of action. Next week or the week after another government measure of this type will be before us. I refer to the 4-pronged attack by the Government on the wine and brandy industry. The Government has already increased the excise on petrol and has increased and equalised telephone charges - another Coombs report job. All over the countryside this Government has taken action to ensure that areas in the country that have been able to get off the ground with some economic expansion are hit. I will not say that they will cease to exist - 'that might be a bit of exaggeration - but they must be hurt. This Bill is another example of this. Time will not allow me to deal with this matter further. All I say on behalf of the apple growers and citrus growers in my electorate is that I support the amendment moved by the Opposition. I hope that later in the day we will see it passed for the benefit of those people. 
Has the attention of the Treasurer been drawn to statements made in a television program last night that the Government has run out of money and cannot meet its bills? Is this statement true, or is it another hysterical outburst by people who should know better? 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is carrying on in his normal fashion - like a little boy who has just lost his toffee apple. 
Well, it is a truism. It happens to be true because apparently honourable members on the other side of the House, including the right honourable member, just have not yet got used to the fact that they are no longer in office. I do wish that the Leader of the Country Party who made a series of nasty, catty, snide remarks about the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  would lift the tone of the debate and try to bring something into it which would add to the dignity of this chamber. 
In speaking, to the estimates for the Department of Northern Development I should like to refer to some historic episodes which have occurred in recent years. The first historic event which assisted the development of the north of Australia occurred when the Director of Northern Development in the Department of National Development decided that he could implement his ideals in a more practical manner by becoming a member of this Parliament. That person was  Dr Rex  Patterson who resigned his position in the Commonwealth Public Service, and after an election for the seat of Dawson became a member of this Parliament in February 19.66. The next historic episode occurred when, after the election of a Labor Government on 2 December 1972, the Ministry of Northern Development was created and the honourable member for Dawson became its first Minister. 
Over the years many pious platitudes and trite statements have been made about the need for northern development. Statements have been made that we must develop northern Australia because its comparative emptiness is a threat to our security. There may be some truth in this statement, but it is usually made in a context which implies doubt about the intrinsic worthiness of northern development. I would like to quote from an address given by a former Minister for National Development,  Sir William  Spooner, a member of a former Liberal-Country Party Government, in May 1964 at a symposium on the development of northern Australia. This is indicative of some of the trite statements which were made and of action which was not taken. He stated in part - and this is true: 
Well over a million square miles of Australia - nearly 40 per cent of the total area of the continent - lie north of the Tropic of Capricorn. More than half of Queensland and over one-third of Western Australia are in this area. Only 20 per cent of the Northern Territory is south of the Tropic. 
This was a trite remark he made: 
Australians have for a long time been interested in their undeveloped northern areas but never before in our history has the challenge presented by this area been felt so strongly. Only in recent years have we become truly conscious of the great contrast between the high level of development achieved in the more densely populated parts of the continent and the relative emptiness of our undeveloped areas. 
That is a trite statement if ever there was one. It is true that constitutionally the Queensland and Western Australian governments have the primary rights and responsibility for developing their own States, the Commonwealth being directly responsible only for the Northern Territory. But the Commonwealth has an important contribution to make also throughout the whole of the north. Un fortunately the Australian Governments in the past have not fully met that responsibility. Members of the former Liberal-Country Party governments for the past 23 years should hang their heads in shame for not accepting that responsibility. In the years I have been in this Parliament I have heard the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr (Mr Hansen),  the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  and the honourable member for Dawson, now the Minister for National Development, pressing the need for development of the northern areas of Australia, but their pleas fell on deaf ears. Rarely have I heard some members opposite, and particularly the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  raise this matter. The honourable member for Kennedy was a Minister in the previous Government and he should have been able to achieve much, but he sat as silent as a mute. 
The lack of development in the north of Australia has been the result of apathy, lack of interest and the ineptitude of the LiberalCountry Party Ministers who preceded this new Government. I agree with the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  who led for the Opposition in this debate, that too little has been done. I quote his exact words. He said: 
Too little has been done by preceding governments. 
He was a supporter of those governments. He was not .a front-bencher; he was not a Minister. He has criticised his own Party and the lack of interest shown by the preceding governments in the development of northern Australia. 
Some evidence of the results achieved by the Minister for Northern Development since his entry into this Parliament in February 1966 can be obtained from details of the amounts of Commonweath funds allocated for the construction and improvement of certain roads used for the transport of cattle, known as beef roads. The construction of these roads is aimed particularly at increasing the numbers of beef cattle for export. In the 5 years preceding 1966, the year in which the Minister came into this Parliament, a total of $23m was allocated for the construction and improvement of beef roads. But in the 5 years succeeding his entry into this Parliament the figure jumped to $3 3m. No doubt the Minister, with his well known modesty, will disclaim complete responsibility for this. Maybe it is a coincidence, but the facts are there. There has been a dramatic increase. 
Commonwealth grants for the investigation of the water resources of northern Australia have been lacking. Vast water resources have been allowed to run into the sea when they could be utilised for the arid sections of this continent. Much has been said over the past decade about the harnessing of the waters of the Burdekin River in northern Queensland. What has been the record of 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Governments in regard to the Burdekin River? It has been precious little, if anything at all. In its first year of office, this Government did something. It did not just talk about it. Four months after coming into office a decision was made, and I read it so that it will be in the record. The decision was made in April 1973 by the Australian Government to participate in a joint FederalState Burdekin project committee to undertake a comprehensive study of the Burdekin River basin in Queensland with particular reference to water availability and the requirements of urban irrigation, power generation, industrial and flood mitigation purposes and, against the background of such a study, to develop proposals for the future development of the region. Funds were allocated for this project for this study, by the Labor Government only 4 months after coming into office. Again, quoting from the Budget Papers, I would like to give some details of the special appropriations for the year ending 30 June 1974 for northern development. This financial year, the first under a Labor Government for 23 years, an amount of $46,647,950 has been allocated for special projects in northern Australia. Last financial year, under a Liberal-Country Party Government, the amount was $29,510,693. So in the first year of a Labor Government the increase in the allocation for special northern development projects has been $17m, an increase of 60 per cent - another dramatic increase. I wish that the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who was setting out to denigrate the work of the Minister for National Development, were here to hear these figures, because he was the  Deputy  Prime Minister prior to the Labor Party's coming to power and was partially responsible and, I would say, would have had a big say in the lack of development in the north. He was in a position of power. He was in a position to influence policies, and history shows that he did not do so. He stands condemned, as do all other members of the Ministries of those years, for the travesty that has gone on in regard to the lack of development in the north of Australia - a country that is arid, that needs development and that needs a ton of money pushed into it. I admire the people in the north who have to put up with inconvenience, particularly in the grazing community, the cattle men, the ones who have battled for years, who have pressed their own Party - the Country Party - and who have pressed the Government of the day for money to be allocated. They have had to sit back and watch as drought hit them. They have had to suffer the indignity, the loss of finance and everything else because the Government of the day was inept, did not have the courage and did not have the foresight to push money into a part of Australia that sadly needs developing. 
Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to reports in this morning's Press concerning the exemption of mining income and dividends from income tax? Can he explain what the Government has decided is to be done about the exemption of this income? 
Order! I draw the attention of the Leader of the Country Party to standing order 76 which says: 
All imputations of improper motives and all per sonal reflections on members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
The impression I have gained from what the right honourable gentleman has said so far is that he is reflecting on the motives of a mem ber of this House who happens to be a Minister. I suggest that he use caution in his manner of speaking on the subject because, under the standing order which I quoted, that is considered highly disorderly. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! As honourable members know, interjections are out of order. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! In ruling on the point of order I suggest to the Leader of the Country Party that he should not make any imputations of improper motives against any members of this 
House. He may make them against the Government if he wishes to. 
 Order! Does the Deputy Leader of the Opposition claim to have been misrepresented? 
If one is to believe the old saying that man does not live by bread alone one has to express one's disappointment over the allocation in the Budget to recreation and sport. The total amount, about $4,500,000, certainly looks impressive by past standards. It is in fact a great deal more than the Liberal Government saw fit to dish out in the previous 10 years or more. But surely we do not measure progress in this country against that sluggish pace. Of the total made available in the Budget, $3.2m has been earmarked for the creation or completion of single and multi-purpose community recreation and sporting centres. Perhaps the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and his advisers felt that they were being extremely generous. But how far will this money get us? One tartan track costs $130,000; one indoor 25 meter swimming pool would cost $280,000. So with this paltry sum all the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  can do is to plug the most frightening gaps, but hardly what is needed to create a chain of modern recreation and sporting facilities so badly needed in all our cities and the country areas. 
One cannot rid oneself of the feeling that somehow, for some mysterious reason, probably inherent in our upbringing, we in Australia still tend to regard sport and recreation with some condescending amusement, and that our public and even many of our politicians somehow fail to grasp the real significance and meaning behind this all. People who have devoted half a lifetime to these problems have proved - if only we, the legislators, would listen - that physical fitness, mass recreation and sport are not idle pastimes but matters of national importance. (Quorum formed). The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  probably called attention to the 
State of the chamber because there were only 5 Liberal members present. I do not think there are any more now. As I was saying, Australians do not regard physical fitness, mass recreation and sport as idle pastimes. Honourable members on this side of the Parliament consider them to be matters of national importance. It is not because we want to create a super race, imitating Hitler's Uebermensch but because we are losing, through premature cardiac failures and other illnesses directly attributable to lack of exercise, thousands of outstanding Australians whose skill, brains and work capacity are indispensable for our country. Despite the undoubted progress in these fields since 2 December last when the Labor Government took office, I feel that we have still not quite accepted full responsibility for the physical well-being, fitness and recreational pursuits of our people. In many other parts of the world this has been achieved, with remarkable results. In those countries governments have come to the correct conclusion that they are responsible not just for the formal scholastic education of their population but also for their physical and mental health. What are recreation and sport if not the most striking aids in this battle? 
We tend to cry poor mouth whenever we have to give money to projects or causes, the immediate results of which cannot be seen. We are a pragmatic people, ruled by what we fondly refer to as common sense. We have to have evidence before we are convinced or converted. There is plenty of evidence in a number of Western countries that recreation and sport contribute materially and significantly to a nation's overall prosperity, happiness and health. We also have evidence of what happens in places where these are ignored. Rome did not decline only because of its faulty plumbing system. The decline was possibly caused by an overemphasis on sex and an under-emphasis on healthy recreation. Australia could be developing rather rapidly to that stage also. We are a rich country, and recent generous grants have merely underlined this. The Government has given over $lm to fewer than 100 writers in the hope of encouraging literature. No doubt many of them will never write one worthwhile line or stanza, yet no one claims that the money is wasted. We have spent $1,400,000 on a single painting which will hang in our national art gallery and will no doubt puzzle most visitors except perhaps those who are able to see in the picture what even the painter might not have seen. 
There is a lot of money for many other things as well. New South Wales is forced to spend about S70m a year on the cure or punishment of alcoholics - something like $800 a head. We are also spending vast sums on the prevention and detection of illnesses or diseases, many of which are caused by our soft life style with lack of sufficient exercise. Even horses and dogs in this country are luckier than humans. Only recently the Totalisator Agency Board in New South Wales announced a pay-out of $llm to various galloping, trotting and greyhound clubs. No doubt these grants will make our horses and dogs fitter, whilst their trainers and owners die of heart attacks at 50 or 60 years of age due to lack of exercise. I am not begrudging what the Government gave to sport and recreation; all I am saying is that it is a mere pittance compared with our other expenditures, especially when one considers the millions of Australians who are involved. Our needs are tremendous, almost stunning. In just about every category our facilities are inadequate, outdated or shabby. Consider Sydney with almost 3 million people. It does not have one public indoor swimming pool, one proper football stadium, one decent indoor stadium and dozens of other things which even small, much poorer communities in Europe and Asia now take for granted. It is time we had a good second look at our attitude to recreation and sport. 
One would have to be a magician to produce really good results with these paltry sums amounting to about 35c for every Australian, not in a week or even in a month, but in a year. That is about the price of a pint of beer. Would one pint of beer satisfy most honourable members every year? After the events of the last few days, I doubt it. I hope that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation will be much more demanding before the next Budget session and that he will convince the doubting Thomases in our Government and the Parliament that a much larger slice of the national cake is required, in order to plan and execute a large scale recreation and sports program, than he received in the last August Budget. Let us take it as a start, as a foot in the door, but not more than that. If this country with its allegedly sports loving, outdoor living people, basking in the reflected glory of our few brilliant individuals, cannot spend more generously on the physical fitness, recreation and leisure time activities of its people, it is our woolly attitude that is at serious fault and not our ability to meet these serious obligations. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  spoke of the deleterious effects which could flow from the stringent application of the provisions of the amending legislation in regard to Australian-owned companies trading on Norfolk Island. I think I know the companies to which he referred. For my part - I do not speak on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on this - I have no geat sympathy for those Australian companies to which I think the honourable gentleman was referring. I instance the fact that those self-same companies have already set themselves up in a tax haven in the New Hebrides in an endeavour to protect themselves, and while they adopt those attitudes I feel they can expect to receive very little sympathetic treatment from the Government. As was stated by the Treasurer in his second reading speech on 30 August 1973, when he introduced the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 4) of 1973: 
The Bill has a simple purpose. It is designed to put an end to the use of Norfolk Island and, to a more limited extent, of Papua New Guinea for tax haven purposes. 
The Treasurer, in his speech, gave a definition of that he considered to be a tax haven, and Norfolk Island certainly comes within that definition. The original intention of the legislature to grant tax-free status to residents of Norfolk Island was not in itself a bad thing. 
But as with all good things there are always people who will prostitute the good things in life for their own personal gain. This happened in regard to the tax free status of Norfolk Island. If my memory serves me correctly, it was in about 1966 that a shrewd Sydney solicitor conceived the idea of ultilising Norfolk Island as a tax haven. He even went there to set up the tax free companies. Of course this tax avoidance scheme did not benefit the ordinary wage plug. He had no chance of avoiding his tax liability. Tax was taken out of his wages before he got his hands on them. The tax avoidance was being done for the benefit of that section of the community which could afford to pay its correct tax - the wealthy taxpayer and the medium and large companies. There is only one word to describe that section of the community which practises these tax dodges - unscrupulous. The same word applies to their advisers, both solictors and accountants. 
It is interesting to note that in the courses of study and in examinations set for both solicitors and accountants is a subject called ethics'. How can any self-respecting solicitor or accountant reconcile his conscience with the unethical practice of encouraging clients to rob the government? I once heard it said by a member of the clergy that in Ireland it is not a sin to rob the government. That may have been so in Ireland when that country was under the control of a foreign invader. But I suggest this is not the position in Australia. It is the obligation of every decent Australian to contribute equitably towards the cost of running the country in accordance with his capacity to pay. Those who do not are a barnacle on the ship of state. Those who used Norfolk Island as a tax haven were barnacles. I could use a stronger word but it would be classified as unparliamentary. 
This legislation removes the barnacles which were hanging on the ship of state. My only regret is the lateness of the introduction of the legislation which will have effect in relation to income derived after 19 July 1972. When I was elected to this Parliament in 1969 after 34 years service in the Taxation Office I commenced to hammer the then Liberal-Country Party Government on its lack of legislative action to prevent taxation avoidance schemes. The Norfolk Island tax haven was part of those schemes. A succession of LiberalCountry Party Treasurers had this matter brought to their attention. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  in my view was evasive. The attitude of the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  when Treasurer was almost an encouragement to these tax evaders. On 8 March 1970 I addressed a question to the then LiberalCountry Party Treasurer, the honourable member for Wentworth, as follows: 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that many income tax avoidance schemes are being carried out particularly by large and wealthy companies and their shareholders? Is it a fact also that I drew the attention of the Treasurer to some of these income tax avoidance schemes in a speech in this House on 18 March 1970? Will the Treasurer take urgent action to bring down amending legislation to prevent this legalised tax avoidance and share the tax burden in a more equitable manner than is the case now? 
In reply the then Treasurer said, in part: 
It is open under the law for any citizen to operate the laws as he can best to his advantage. 
What was that if not encouragement to tax evaders to go ahead with these nefarious schemes? The honourable member for Wentworth did not last long as Treasurer and was succeeded by the present Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable B. M. Snedden. The pressure continued by myself and other honourable members of this Parliament - notably the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  - for some form of taxation justice and for a crackdown on tax evaders. On 19 July 1972 the then Treasurer - now Leader of the Opposition - finally surrendered. He announced to this House that Parliament would be asked to approve legislation designed to put a stop to Norfolk Island and other Territories being used as tax havens for the avoidance of income tax. But the then Liberal-Country Party Government would not introduce the necessary legislation. It was necessary for a change of government to occur before the legislation was finally introduced into this Parliament - and not before time. 
I congratulate the Treasurer for introducing this legislation. But one point concerns me. What is to be done about those companies which derived income in Norfolk Island prior to .19 July 1(972, which is the operative date for this legislation? Are they to escape? My suggestion to the Treasurer is that he should initiate action within the Taxation Office to see that investigatory action is taken against all those tax avoiding companies which were set up on Norfolk Island. I suggest that this is capable of being done and that millions of dollars of avoided tax could be collected and used for the benefit of all Australians. There is an old saying that as soon as one plugs one leak another one starts. This is probably true. Tax avoidance has been likened to a game of cards - you win some, you lose some. But it is a game in which the Commissioner of Taxation holds all the aces. He is entrusted with very wide powers and this Government has shown by its actions that it is quite prepared to strengthen the hand of the Commissioner of Taxation where there is any legal doubt. 
I commend the action of the Treasurer in his attitude towards other tax havens, notably the New Hebrides. In a statement on 25 October 1973 he said in part that one of the steps being taken to combat tax havens was the screening by the Taxation Office of exchange control applications for transactions between Australia and the New Hebrides. He said that the establishment of tax havens in close proximity to Australia, such as the New Hebrides, was a potentially dangerous development which posed a serious threat to Australian taxation revenues. He mentioned that legislation had recently been introduced to put an end to the use of Norfolk Island as a tax haven. He said that tax havens outside Australia's territorial jurisdiction, however, presented greater problems which, overseas experience suggested, called for measures to supplement income tax legislation. He also said that in the absence of action to prevent the successful use of tax havens by Australian taxpayers, the activities of such people, and those who advised them, resulted in a heavier tax burden on their fellow citizens. 
He continued that whatever steps were necessary - whether by amendment of the taxation law or otherwise - would be taken to protect the interests of the general body of Australian citizens, to whom the use of these devices was abhorrent. He also said that in doing so every endeavour would be made to match the skill and ingenuity of those who were trying to evade or avoid the payment of tax, or those who were assisting them. He also said: 
In particular, Australia views the emergence of the Kew Hebrides as a tax haven with extreme concern and will take all necessary measures to prevent resort by Australian taxpayers to the facilities offered by the Condominium for evasion or avoidance of taxation; In the light of recent experience, one measure now being taken is to  ensure  that exchange control approval is not given to transactions between companies and persons in Australia and the New Hebrides unless the Reserve Bank sights evidence that the Commissioner of Taxation does not object to the proposed transaction. Before the Commissioner gives such a declaration the applicant will have to satisfy him that the transactions will not in any way involve or assist or be associated with avoidance  or  evasion of Australian tax, whether by the applicant or anybody else. 
I commend the action of the Treasurer and his attitude towards these other tax havens, notably the New Hebrides. This action, I might add, is in marked contrast to the attitude of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government and shows that the 'hands off' attitude towards tax evaders is at an end. If the wealthy section of the community paid its correct tax this could lead to a lowering of taxation for that section of the community which can ill afford its present heavy tax liability. This tax measure has my full support and I am certain that the whole community, other than those who are caught by it. 
This evening we have had a learned dissertation from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  in regard to the Bills that are now before the House. In a typical speech he acted, as he normally does, as the apologist for big business. I could not help noticing the crocodile tears he shed in support of those who have gained benefits over the years which in equity they should never have obtained in the first place. What this Bill seeks to do is to restore some equity in taxation liability. 
In introducing the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5) 1973 the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said that the Bill would withdraw some taxation concessions that had been allowed to primary producers and manufacturers, following a careful review by the Government of a number of revenue concessions which could fairly be categorised as disguised expenditures resulting in additions to the burdens of other taxpayers. Those words were very true. In other words, this Bill seeks to restore some form of equity to all taxpayers, not just benefits to the few. This Bill will discontinue what is commonly known as the investment allowance which allowed a special income tax deduction of 20 per cent of the capital expenditure on specified new manufacturing and primary production plant. The Bill will also terminate provisions which allowed some capital expenditure by primary producers to be wholly deductible in the year in which it is incurred, and in other cases the allowance of accelerated depreciation over a period of 5 years. In future, deductions will be allowed as ordinary depreciation on plant and structures, and over 10 years on other items. 
I wish to make a few comments in regard to the investment allowance. It is important to look at the reasons why the investment allowance was introduced in 1962. In presenting the measure the then Treasurer, the late  Mr Harold  Holt, said as reported in Hansard of 12 April 1962 at page 1651: 
In proposing the allowance the Government aims to encourage greater investment in our manufacturing industries and thus ensure, in both the short and the long term, a greater volume of both output and employment. It seeks also to promote greater efficiency in manufacturing production from which should flow the advantages of lower costs which will benefit the Australian consumer and help our industries to seek export opportunities in markets overseas. 
I make it clear that at that time, when the Labor Party was in Opposition, we did not accept the reasons given by the then LiberalCountry Party Government for the introduction of this measure. We did not approve of it then; we do not approve of it now. It could well be that there were deep political reasons for the introduction of that measure in the first place. It has certainly been of great financial value to the manufacturing interests and the giants of industry as I will show later in my speech. 
It is commonly accepted that the investment allowance was the brain-child of the former Minister for Trade and Industry,  Sir John  McEwen. It was introduced in 1962 following the disastrous near defeat of the Menzies Government in 1961 as a result of the 1960 horror Budget. It has also been suggested that the manufacturing interests has been a prime source of funds for the Country Party under  Sir John  McEwen. This is not my suggestion; I would not know whether this allegation is true or not. But an editorial in that conservative newspaper, the 'Sydney Morning Herald', on 22 February 1971 makes no bones about it. One can hardly class the 'Sydney Morning Herald' as a left wing oriented newspaper. Speaking on the need for a tariff review, the editorial in that newspaper said: 
The qualifying remarks are probably a political exercise intended to mollify an increasingly fearful manufacturing lobby that has been a prime source of Country Party funds under  Sir John  McEwan. 
The introduction of the investment allowance in 1962 was opposed by the then Opposition spokesman and shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports,  (Mr Crean)  who is now the Treasurer in this Government. Let me quote his sentiments as expressed then, as recorded at page 1'859 of Hansard of 2 May 1962, because they are his sentiments now. He said: 
We believe that this imports into the income tax legislation a new principle and that certain aspects of it should be subjected to criticism. 
Later, at page  i186o,  he is recorded as saying: 
 I submit that to add something to that cost by way of a tax concession is in effect to subsidise certain industries which come within the definition of manufacturing' provided that plant is installed within a certain period. The Treasurer  (Mr Harold Holt)  did not deny that that was his purpose . . . 
At page 1861 he is recorded as stating: 
I am not quibbling about whether this sort of thing ought to be done; I am simply saying that if it is thought that certain industries require some encouragement to improve their export trade, if it is believed that life insurance companies ought to devote a certain part of their investible funds to public loans, or if it is felt that certain kinds of investment in particular manufacturing industries ought to be encouraged, then the Government ought to be honest enough to say that that is the purpose of the measure instead of attempting to shelter behind the provisions of the Income Tax Act. 
Those words which were true then are true also today. That is one of the reasons why the investment allowance is being removed by this Government. 
I wish to quote some examples of how the investment allowance benefited the people concerned. In the case of a non-private or public company, as it is better known, the investment allowance which was granted by that piece of legislation when introduced was equal to a direct subsidy of up to 8.5 per cent of the cost of an item of plant. Applying this to an item of plant which would cost, say, $20,000, the investment allowance of 20 per cent of that $20,000, namely $4,000, would finally be worth $1,700 to the company after the company rate of 42.5 per cent had been applied to the $4,000. This would reduce the net cost of the plant from $20,000 to $18,300. The Commonwealth subsidy through the taxation system would therefore be $1,700. 
The Australian Labor Party, now in Government, is not opposed to economic assistance to industry. What it opposes is the snide and underhand manner in which this assistance has been given since 1962 when this legislation first came into effect. If there are to be economic subsidies to particular industries, let proper inquiries be made as to which particular industries need this assistance, and which companies or which industries need assistance in the national interest and not in the interests of the individual industry concerned. 
The Tariff Board currently makes these inquiries in regard to tariff proposals. It is proposed that, if the relevant legislation is passed, another body will take the place of the Tariff Board. When decisions are made after proper inquiry, the extent of the subsidies should be there for all to see, not hidden away because of the secrecy provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act. I should like to know, and the people of Australia - the taxpayers - are entitled to know, how much this legislation has benefited the monopolistic giants of the Australian manufacturing industry since it was introduced. How much has been gained by means of this ingenious piece of legislation by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, Australian Consolidated Industries Ltd, Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd and the other industrial giants. The only people who know are the Commissioner of Taxation and his staff. I maintain that the people of Australia should know. They would know if this type of subsidy benefit were provided in the way it should be, if it is necessary - not through the Income Tax Act. 
The previous Liberal-Country Party Government removed the investment allowance in February 1971. The Australian Labor Party supported the removal of that allowance. However, big business which is the master of the Liberal Party and the Country Party forced the then Government to reintroduce the deduction to be effective from 14 February 1972. That the then Government caved in to the demands of its masters is understandable when one looks at the amount of this unjustifiable subsidy paid to all manufacturing interests, big and small alike. 
The elimination of the investment allowance for manufacturing industries will result in a full year in an increase in tax revenue of $60m. In other words, if this deduction were to remain, it would mean a subsidy of $60m to manufacturing industries in respect of new purchases of plant. The same position applies to primary producers. The subsidy for them in a full year amounts to $10m. Primary producers have often been referred to as God's chosen people. When one looks at the inequitable tax benefits granted over the years to primary producers, it is no wonder that this phrase has been coined. 
For the record, I wish to quote the net increase in revenue which will be obtained by this legislation as it affects primary producers. The increase of revenue by the discontinuance of the provision for accelerated depreciation of plant used in primary production will amount to $ 10m in a full year. The discontinuance of the immediate deductibility of certain capital expenditure items by primary producers and the double deduction previously allowed for expenditure on clearing and developing primary production lands will amount to an increase in revenue of $17m. The discontinuance of the investment allowance to primary producers will amount to $10m in a full year. In other words, on these 3 items alone, $37m a year, but for the provisions of this legislation, would have been granted by way of subsidy to primary producers whether or not they needed it. Surely that is not an economic way of doing things. Surely, if a subsidy is needed it would be far better to have an investigation through the Industries Assistance Commission or the Tariff Board to determine in what specific area assistance is needed, if it is needed, and then grant that assistance. Then all the people can see where the assistance is going and how much it is. 
The figure which I have quoted as the amount of assistance which has been given by means of legislation to primary producers has not taken into account other benefits which primary producers still enjoy and will continue to enjoy because those advantages have not been removed by this legislation. Of great assistance to primary producers are the averaging provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act. The averaging provisions for primary producers in Australia for the current year will grant benefits to primary producers of approximately $30m. So they are not doing too badly. As I said previously, if subsidy assistance is necessary, be it for manufacturers or primary producers, the most effective and proper way of providing it is to have a case heard before either the Tariff Board or the Industries Assistance Commis sion where the full facts can be brought out and the results of that inquiry made known to the people of Australia - the tax paying public. We should not have a situation where one section of the community is carrying another and that situation, I am afraid, has been in existence for many years. One of the purposes of this legislation is to end that type of inequitable assistance which until now has been granted to certain sections of the community. 
I commend the Treasurer for providing in this piece of legislation for the taxing of casual profits from the sale of property within a year of acquisition. Possibly this is the first step in the institution of a capital profits tax. As honourable members will know, there is presently an inquiry taking place before what is known as the Asprey Committee. One of its terms of reference is to look at the possibility of instituting a capital gains tax. I would like to see it instituted. I am hopeful that when that inquiry is concluded the committee will recommend the introduction of a capital gains tax and that this Government will institute it. Exemption from taxation on profits derived from the sale of property within a year of acquisition has been granted to a person who finds it is necessary to sell his own residence because of a change of business or a change of employment. I think that is the only exemption that should be granted, notwithstanding the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  this evening who cried crocodile tears over poor little ladies who are forced to sell their houses on the Mornington Peninsula and go to the Gold Coast. I could not see the merit of his argument. I have never been to the Mornington Peninsula but I have been to the Gold Coast and I have a shrewd idea that they are not forced to go there for reasons of health. 
I again commend the Treasurer for removing, by the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5) 1973, the differential tax rate applicable to private companies and public companies. It is proposed over a period of 2 years to bring the private and the public company rates into line. I know, from experience I had in another place before coming here, of the number of tax lurks which were used in the formation of private companies. One way by which such tax lurks can be eliminated is by eliminating the differential rate so that private and public companies pay taxation at the same rate. This is possibly the first step taken by the Labor Government in the institution of a new look in taxation legislation. I am hopeful that when the Asprey Committee brings down its report and it receives the attention of the Government the whole of our taxation legislation will be streamlined and more equity brought into the Income Tax Assessment Act. I hope we will have a simpler Act and an Act which is easier to understand. When that happens I am certain that the tax paying public of Australia will get the benefit rather than, as I pointed out earlier in my remarks, certain privileged sections of the community. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing and Minister for Works. Is there any evidence to show that the measures introduced by this Government to deal with the liquidity problem have caused unemployment in the building and construction industry? Will the Minister give an assurance that the weapon of unemployment will not be invoked deliberately to relieve excessive pressures on the building industry? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, this is a negative, illconsidered piece of legislation and should be recognised, and will be recognised, I am afraid, by primary producers as marking this day on which the Labor Party betrayed the rural people. 

The question is that the Bill be now read a second time. All those in favour say aye, against say no. I think the ayes have it. 
I will listen closely to the honourable member. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing and Construction. Is the Minister aware that, despite appeals by this Government, some permanent building societies have increased their interest rates to borrowers by more than one per cent, thus increasing monthly repayments on the average loan by as much as $20 per month? Can the Minister reconcile this seemingly callous approach with the fact that the permanent building societies in New South Wales, during October, received record deposits of $102.5m, thus breaking for the first time in their history the $100m barrier? If the permanent building societies are able to attract record deposits by paying  7i  per cent to depositors, why is it that some of them are ignoring the Government's appeals to reduce hardship on people making repayments of their housing loans? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Secondary Industry and Minister for Supply been drawn to the latest issue of the privately circulated weekly publication called 'Inside Canberra'? Has the Minister seen the statement in this publication that the merger of the Departments of Secondary Industry and Supply is expected to be announced soon? Does this publication also state that the Secretary of the new Department will be  Mr Neil  Currie, the present permanent head of the Department of Supply, and not the present Secretary of the Department of Secondary Industry,  Mr Frank  Pryor? Is there any truth in the statements contained in this publication? If not, is it not a matter for concern that statements of this kind are made to the embarrassment of senior public servants and their departments? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
At this stage I do not want to deal with the matters that have been raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  relating to education, improved and continuing good relations between the Government of Papua New Guinea and the Australian Government. Undoubtedly they will continue, as they should. Geographically, there is so much in common between the 2 countries and there has been such a long association that one could not envisage a situation in which those same circumstances would not continue to apply. But what con cerned me was the way in which the honourable member for Kooyong approached what one would acknowledge can be a difficult situation in a new country. I am now referring of course to the position of the defence forces of Papua New Guinea. What the honourable member for Kooyong should do of course is bring himself up to date. Both he and the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  consistently referred to the Pacific Island Regiment Forces in Papua New Guinea. 
The honourable member for Kooyong referred to the question of the defence forces in Papua New Guinea and what should be the attitude of the Australian servicemen serving in that country. As the honourable member knows, it is quite clear that since selfgovernment in Papua New Guinea there has been a need for consultation. It has not been the prerogative of this Government to determine what should be done with the Australian defence forces in Papua New Guinea and the extent to which they should be used or integrated into the Papua New Guinea Defence Forces. That is a matter for consultation between the Australian Government and the Government of Papua New Guinea. More particularly, it has been a matter for discussion between the Papua New Guinea Minister for Defence and Foreign Relations,  Mr Kiki  and myself. Indeed, I think that probably the first visit I made outside Australia as the Minister for Defence was to Papua New Guinea for the purpose of discussing with the then Executive Council, with  Mr Maori-Kiki  and with the Chief Minister,  Mr Somare,  the question of defence. We discussed questions concerning that country in terms of defence, what the Australian attitude should be in relation to the assistance that we would provide to Papua New Guinea and the extent to which members of the Australian defence forces would continue to operate and serve in that country. Naturally, the attitude that 1 adopted was that this should be the responsibility and the prerogative of the Government of Papua New Guinea to determine. Indeed, we have no jurisdiction in this matter, nor would we want to intrude in what obviously is their own concern. If the honourable member for Kooyong had carried out some research into what has been said on this subject, he would remember that when I made a statement to this House on 22 August 1973 concerning this region and the position of the Australian defence forces, I had this to say: 
Honourable members will have noted the important statement of 20 August by the Minister for Defence and Foreign Relations in the Papua New Guinea Government,  Mr Kiki.  The Minister said that 'Papua New Guinea was determined to look after its own security problems in the future' and that 'no country can lightly contemplate either the dispatch of their own forces or the acceptance of foreign forces to deal with an essentially domestic situation.'. 
I went on to say: 
I can say that  Mr Kiki's  views are very much in accord with those of this Government and I am confident those of all members of the House. Papua New Guinea and Australian Ministers have constantly stated that primary responsibility for the maintenance of internal security in Papua New Guinea rests with the Papua New Guinea police force. 
Again, to spell it out for the honourable member for Kooyong, the Australian Government's view remains that it would be extremely reluctant to become involved in an internal security situation in Papua New Guinea. As I have said, the Papua New Guinea Government shares this view. In the words of  Mr Kiki,  the Papua New Guinea Minister for Defence and Foreign Relations, Papua New Guinea was determined to look after its own security problems in the future'. Surely in these circumstances what one should do as a responsible Minister for Defence in the Australian Government is to ensure that there are continued discussions and negotiations with officials of the Papua New Guinea Department of Defence. 
As I indicated to the House a few moments ago, we agreed during discussions on my first visit to Papua New Guinea that there would be continued discussions between representatives of the Australian Department of Defence and the administration in Papua New Guinea. Those discussions have continued and did continue during 1973. They are still continuing. I have had the opportunity on a number of occasions to discuss these matters with the Chief Minister,  Mr Somare,  together with the Minister for Science in the Australian Government and, naturally, we have had discussions which concern the internal security of Papua New Guinea. On each occasion it has been made clear to us that the responsibility for internal security in Papua New Guinea after independence will be the responsibility of those authorities. A few weeks ago 1 continued those discussions in Sydney with  Mr Albert  Maori-Kiki. The discussions related to the question of defence and the matters we had raised on a number of occasions. However, in addition, we discussed the continuing aid to be provided by the Australian Department of Defence to Papua New Guinea after independence, particularly in terms of essential equipment that would be required by that country. On every occasion the proposition has been put to me as the Minister for Defence, I think responsibly and in the way that these things should be done, by the Minister for Defence of Papua New Guinea,  Mr Albert  Maori-Kiki. I am happy to assure the honourable member for Kooyong that those discussions were mutually advantageous and, as a result of our last discussions, Australia will take part in a continuing defence aid program for Papua New Guinea. As I said, it has been made clear by both the Chief Minister and the Minister for Defence of Papua New Guinea that the question of the internal security arrangements of that country will rest primarily with the Papua New Guinea police force. I said that this would be the view of the Australian Government and that we would want that situation to apply. So, in this respect, there have been meaningful discussions on the role of the police force in Papua New Guinea after independence and, again, assistance will be provided to that country. 
In conclusion may I say that it is quite clear that the Australian Government has acted quite properly in meeting the wishes of the Papua New Guinea Minister for Defence and Foreign Relations and of the Chief Minister on all occasions when he has sought discussions with me on this question. The Chief Minister himself has expressed complete satisfaction with the arrangments that have been made and, indeed, with the arrangements that have been made for the discussions that will continue in the future. As a result of the last visit to this country of the Papua 
New Guinea Minister for Defence and Foreign Relations, it was agreed that I should visit Papua New Guinea in the very near future - I hope to visit that country some time in April or early in May - in order that these matters might be further considered. 
I conclude by pointing out to the honourable member for Kooyong that it would not be possible for one to make any statement in the House on what are very important matters for the Papua New Guinea Government, particularly in relation to defence and our aid program for defence to Papua New Guinea after independence which, as I have said, will continue, until these discussions with the responsible Ministers in Papua New Guinea have been concluded. I can assure the honourable member that when that has been done - when these discussions have been concluded - the statement will be made at the right time by the Government. 
Some of the speeches I have heard in this House tonight are very illustrative of what I think is the fault with tourism in this country. The illustration I would like to give - I think this is something which extends throughout the country - concerns the parochialness of people's views on tourism. In saying that I mean no offence to any of the honourable members who have participated in this debate tonight. It is about time that we in Australia started to think nationally about tourism and ceased to think parochially about it. Certainly, the beaches in the electorate of my friend the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  are delightful. I could say the same of every beach in Sydney and every beach in Australia, particularly in the suburbs of the electorate of Warringah that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  represent, which are probably the most delightful beaches in Australia. But that is not the issue. The issue is that we should think nationally and less parochially about tourism in Australia. 
I must also take issue with the previous  speaker  in this debate, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe).  He mentioned that in this year's Budget only about $4,750,000 was allocated to the Department of Tourism and Recreation. That statement is not correct. The amount of $4,750,000 was allocated solely to tourism within Australia; $3m was provided to the Australian Tourist Commission and $1,750,000 was allocated for Australiana projects in Australia. In addition to those amounts, $6m was appropriated for recreation purposes. I also take issue with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  who, in his speech this evening, said that the Department of Tourism and Recreation had hindered the tourist industry by reducing or disallowing taxation deductions for depreciation in respect of buildings used for tourism purposes. That is not so. This Government has never allowed such a deduction; nor did the previous Government. No deduction has ever been allowed for depreciation on any buildings used for tourism purposes. The only deductions ever granted for depreciation of buildings were granted to the primary producers. Those deductions were severely watered down in the last Budget. 
The Australian Tourist Commission Bill 1974 is an attempt by ths Government to lift the tourist industry in Australia out of the doldrums. Up to this time the Australian Tourist Commission, which was set up in 1967, has been restricted in its activities to the encouragement of visits to Australia and travel in Australia by people from other countries. Up to date it has had no charter to encourage tourism in Australia by Australians. This Bill seeks to remedy that situation. As I said earlier, from its formation in 1967 up to the present date the Australian Tourist Commission has been empowered only to canvass overseas for visitors to come to Australia. An implicit factor in such promotion was the foreign exchange earnings which Australia received from inflows of overseas tourists. Since late 1972 and early 1973 Australia's balance of payments has been very buoyant. Some people have said that it has been over-buoyant. It has been buoyant to the extent that, to maintain internal equilibrium in the face of continuing strong growth in exports of our major commodities, successive revaluations have been necessary. 
By virtue of the Australian currency link with the United States dollar and the latter's continued appreciation against other major world currencies, the value of the Australian dollar relative to overseas currencies, particularly relative to the currencies of our major tourist markets, has been creeping upwards. For example, in June 1973 the Australian dollar was worth 3.5 deutschemarks, 379 yen or 55 British new pence. Only 6 months later the Australian dollar was worth more than 4 deutschemarks, 420 yen or 64 British new pence. In each case the increase is significant. The advent of the oil crisis has further strengthened the Australian dollar and the United States dollar. However, the foreign exchange aspect of tourism - at present, happily, it is of relatively minor importance to our overall balance of payments situation - has extremely important overtones for various sectors of the tourism industry. Thus, it should not be neglected in future marketing or promotional activities which are being undertaken by Australian Government tourism instrumentalities. 
Indeed, revaluation and the strength of the Australian currency are adverse factors which discourage overseas tourists from coming to Australia. United States visitors now find that they obtain fewer Australian cents for their American dollar than previously. A similar situation faces Japanese tourists. Visitors from many other countries are discouraged, to some extent, by the high cost of a holiday in Australia, particularly the high cost of accommodation and domestic air fares. This situation has been exacerbated by the upward trend of the Australian dollar. Thus, the strength of the Australian dollar is a factor that is encouraging Australians to travel abroad rather than to see their own country first. This Government, through the Australian Tourist Commission, certainly has no wish to deter Australians from broadening their horizons by travelling overseas. At the same time, however, as a result of this legislation and other actions taken by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  Australians will now be offered the prospect of a viable alternative to travelling overseas. 
Whilst Australia's exchange reserves are currently high - they have been for some time - there is no rationale which suggests that this is necessarily a permanent state of affairs. I think that the contrary could be the result. In fact, factors are developing both in the internal economy and in the external world economy which eventually may require a change in our foreign exchange policy and an increasing emphasis on earning foreign exchange from overseas tourists in Australia. Some points made by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation in his second reading speech are worth repeating. The Minister said: 
. based on current estimates for the year ended 31 December 1973, about 319,000 short term visitors came to Australia and short term departures amounted to about 460,000. 
In other words, the difference between the number of tourists coming into Australia and the number of tourists leaving Australia was about 140,000. The Minister went on: 
In money terms in the same period, receipts amounted to$139m and spendings by Australians travelling overseas as short term visitors were $359m, a staggering gap of $220m . . . 
This is an increase of 25 per cent over the figure for the previous year. The main purpose of this Bill is to attempt to bridge that gap and to encourage more Australians to holiday in Australia. The theme of the Australian Tourist Commission could well be, as the purpose of this Bill is, to encourage Australians to see Australia first. How many members of this Parliament have really seen Australia? How many honourable members have been to Western Australia, the Kimberleys, Ayers Rock, Alice Springs, northern Queensland and Tasmania - the Apple Isle - to name but a few of our tourist attractions? If parliamentarians have not been to those places - I suggest that most members of this Parliament have not been to see these places although they have travel opportunities which are not shared by the general populace - what an untapped source of tourist potential must exist amongst the rest of the Australian population. 
With due respect to the various tourist agencies, both governmental and private, which already operate, I suggest that it is abundantly clear that no real attempt has been made in Australia to encourage tourism. That applies equally to promotion of overseas tourism and tourism within Australia by Australians. Domestic tourism promotion is fragmented and parochial. Various groups are paddling their own canoes, with no overall plan of campaign. It is well known that promotion costs money, but the rewards are rich. This Government has gone part of the way to remedying that situation, but inmy view not far enough. Whilst the funds made available for tourism and recreation by this Government are an increase on the amounts made available by previous Liberal-Country Party governments, they are still not enough and are still only a drop in the bucket. 
The amount of $3m which was allocated in the Budget for 1973-74, plus the additional amounts granted for Australiana projects, in world terms would be considered to be a paltry sum when one considers the net gains which could be achieved by even one worthwhile world promotion. Proper and sustained promotion has made Hawaii into a tourist mecca. I have not been to Hawaii and I have no wish to go there. But people who have been there and to whom I have spoken have informed me that Hawaii does not compare with the natural attractions in Australia. I ask honourable members to compare the number of people who visit Hawaii, because it has been sold to them, with the number of people who visit Australia. The fault lies in the fact that we have failed to sell Australia to tourists. 
One does not need to look any further for an example than the tourist promotion of New Zealand that occurs in Australia. New Zealand's television advertising within Australia is tastefully and well done. Promotionally it is very good. It is so good that recently it encouraged even me to visit that country; but I came back convinced that Australia has far more to offer in tourist attractions than has New Zealand. The only difference is that Australia does not sell Australia whereas New 
Zealand sells New Zealand. Australia will not achieve its tourist potential by piously hoping that tourists will come to Australia to experience our alleged good mateship or drink our varied brands of beer. Australia must break out of the tourist rut it is in. What we need is a new and daring attitude to tourism. We have much to learn from the rest of the world. To achieve our optimum, Australia must get together with the various warring tourism forces which today are holding us back. If need be we must crack a few heads together. To make a decent omelet one must break a few eggs, but the net result of those broken eggs usually turns out worth while and attractive. I suggest that if we break a few eggs we may achieve something in the tourist field. 
As I said previously, Australia has much to learn from overseas tourist promotion. In tourist parlance the most perishable commodity is an empty airline seat, an empty bus seat or an empty train seat. While it is unoccupied it is not earning a cent. Australia has no prorating of air fares. A tourist coming here from Japan, America or any other country can obtain the lower mileage rate only to his port of entry into Australia. Thereafter he must pay the normal and high domestic rate of fare. Why in heaven's name cannot we absorb the cost of the domestic air, bus or rail fare into the overall cost of the ticket to Australia? Other countries do this; why not Australia? Why does Australia not have something like the Eurail ticket which allows a tourist in Europe to travel 100,000 miles through 13 countries at a cost of $A120? Italy provides concession prices for petrol for tourists. The price is less than half the normal domestic price. This is something about which we should think in Australia. France has a special rate of exchange for tourists at a much better rate than the normal business rate. Australia provides no such advantage. It is now much better financially, from an exchange point of view, for a tourist from Japan or the United States of America to visit Europe than Australia. I suggest that a bit of imaginative thinking by Australians interested in tourism could bridge this gap. 
The latest report of the Australian Tourist Commission lists the offices it maintains throughout the world. Frankly I was disappointed when I saw how few offices the Australian Tourist Commission has overseas. In the United States of America it has three - in Los Angeles, New York and Chicago. In the 
United Kingdom it has one office in London. In the whole of Europe it has one office in Frankfurt in West Germany. How ludicrous that Australia should have one office in Europe promoting Australian tourism. In New Zealand we have one office in Auckland. In Japan we have one office in Tokyo. I do not blame the Australian Tourist Commission for this state of affairs. It has been trying to fight with its hands tied behind its back, the reason being that successive governments, including the Government of which I am proud to be a member, have failed to make sufficient money available to enable the Commission to function effectively and efficiently. 
As I said earlier, I was in New Zealand recently. While I was there, had I not been an Australian I would not have known of Australia's existence. Australian racing results were not mentioned, not that this is important, but Australia gets little if any mention in the New Zealand Press. Perhaps I was not looking hard enough but I did not see one advertisement in the major New Zealand newspapers mentioning Australia. I never saw one advertisement concerning Australia on television. In my own home in Sydney in the little time I have in which to watch television I get thrashed by advertisements about New Zealand. The words 'Come to New Zealand' assail me every so often. There is even a song Come to New Zealand' with which my own kids thrash me. That is how they talked me into going to New Zealand. My point is that Australia has failed lamentably in promoting overseas this wonderful country, its wonderful climate and its wonderful tourist attractions. 
It failed lamentably under 23 years of the previous Government. I hope that in the next Budget the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Treasury will be a little more sympathetic to tourism and will allocate funds to enable the Australian Tourist Commission to function as efficiently as it should function. I have recently returned from a credit union conference in Tasmania. The conference was held at Wrest Point. I have in my possession a map which indicates what Tasmanians think of Australia. This map actually was a place mat at a dinner I attended. The map shows Tasmania as a big island with Australia as a little island above it. I think that not only does it indicate how Tasmanians feel about Australia . but also it is illustrative of the fact that we are not selling Australia. 
I understand that the map to which I have referred was developed as a result of a map on display in Australia House which showed Australia without Tasmania. It took a Minister of the Crown from Tasmania to draw to the attention of Australia House officials the fact that their map of Australia did not show the island of Tasmania beneath it. The map I have is probably a sling-off at that map of Australia in Australia House, but it shows how the people of Tasmania feel about Australia generally. I must say that the Tasmanians promote Tasmania as a tourist attraction. The people and the State Government have promoted it. I have never stayed at a better hotel with a better standard of accommodation than the hotel at Wrest Point in Tasmania. A person can even win at the casino. I proved that. 
My point is that if proper tourist facilities and good accommodation are provided, Australia has the natural scenery to attract tourists. All we need is the money to sell Australia and I hope that in the next Budget the Government will provide sufficient funds to the Australian Tourist Commission to sell Australia. The benefits derived from the provision of adequate funds will be more than recouped. As I said earlier, it will be paid back a hundredfold. 
I was very interested to hear the remarks of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and also those of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  After hearing their remarks I could forgive myself for thinking that maybe the present Government has been in office for 23 years instead of only 18 months as it has been in reality. The things that honourable members have suggested the previous Government has had 23 years to implement, and failed to do so. The provisions of the Superannuation (Distribution of Surplus) Bill which we are discussing now are partially the outcome of the ineptitude of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in not facing up to the problem of not only the surplus that arose from the quinquennial investigations which have gone on, but also from the Superannuation Act itself as it applies to the whole of the Commonwealth Public Service. The report of the Superannuation Board points out that this surplus of $70,015,000 as at 30 June 1972 has been caused by increased earnings from investments of the Fund at rates of interest above those recorded in previous investigations. The report said also that the continuation of this trend can be expected if earnings from investments continue at a high level. 
The first thing that strikes one when we look at the results of this quinquennial investigation - and quinquennial means 5-yearly - is that these net results arise not necessarily from a 5-yearly investigation but from a 10- yearly investigation, because the results of the previous quinquennial investigation were such that no action was taken by the previous Government to distribute that surplus, which, added to the existing surplus over the past 5 years, has resulted in what is a huge surplus. I think that honourable members will agree that $70m is a huge surplus. 
I think that one has to go beyond the words which were used in the report of the Superannuation Board in order to find the answer to why there is a surplus of this size. Granted, there has been an increase in the interest received from investments made by the Superannuation Fund. I think what is patent is that for too long members of the Australian Public Service have been paying too much into their Superannuation Fund. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  acknowledged this fact in his second reading speech when he said: 
It follows that members' contribution rates are now higher than necessary to finance their share of the benefits provided under the existing scheme. 
That is quite true. Having spent 34 years in the Public Service before coming into this Parliament it was patent to me that the rate of my own contributions was too high. This situation has been exacerbated by the inflationary spiral in which we are living, and, despite what anyone says, the inflationary spiral in Australia is not as bad as inflation is in the rest of the world. Statistical observations from other parts of the world will establish that. 
I have seen examples in the Australian Public Service where relatively senior officers in their fifties have a take home pay of what would be less than the basic wage for the simple reason that they were forced by circumstances to contribute to the Superannuation scheme. When these men received salary increases they were automatically entitled to take out additional superannuation units, and because they did not know what the future would hold they felt, for the protection of their wives and families, that they had to take these units and contribute to the Superannuation Fund at higher rates. I know that many of them were living in relative penury and were just praying for the day when they would retire. Many of these men had reached the stage where they could not live at a reasonable standard because they were forced to contribute to the Fund at a rate that was much higher than it should have been because of decisions taken by the Government of. the day. This is a criticism of the previous Government. If the Government of the day had faced up to the issue of the recurring surpluses - and it should have been very obvious to it that the Superannuation Fund as it then was needed a decent looking at - this situation would not exist today. But it was left to the Labor Government when it came to power to have a look at the Superannuation 
Fund. That it has done. This Government set up a Treasury committee of inquiry to look at the Superannuation Fund in depth. The committee of inquiry brought down a report which was presented in this Parliament on 8 May 1973. The report has been considered by this Government as well as by the various unions and associations within the Australian Public Service. A new scheme has been suggested by the Treasurer. This scheme has been temporarily deferred by the Cabinet for a further actuarial check. 
I am concerned about one aspect of the present Bill. If my reading of the Bill is correct the only persons who will gain from the distribution of the surplus are those who have already retired from the Public Service - and their share of the surplus will be $17,490,000 - and the present contributors who are within the Public Service, whose share of the surplus will be $52,525,000. What has happened to the surplus which has accrued in respect of those previous officers of the Public Service who have resigned? Take my own case - and I am not paddling my own canoe, although some honourable members may think so. I was a member of the Commonwealth Public Service for 34 years before I resigned to enter the Australian Parliament. All I got out of the Superannuation Fund was the contributions which I had paid in myself. I did not receive any interest. I did not receive the employer's share. I received nothing in addition to what I had paid in. There were people far worse off than I was, who had been in the Service for a lot longer than I had. I suggest that a large content of the overall surplus of $70,015,000 would be applicable to those people who resigned from the Public Service, irrespective of how long they had spent in the Service. I suggest that it is unjust that no portion of this surplus which has been accrued partially by their moneys which they paid in is to be distributed back to them. I was hopeful that the Treasurer might have had a look at this question before the Bill was introduced. Apparently this is one of the things that has slipped through and is not in the Bill or the Act. I think it is an inequity that people who have spent a long time in the Australian Public Service and who have contributed to the Superannuation Fund should receive only when they resign a refund of the contributions they made, and not even any interest on them. We have to remember that the Superannuation Fund has had the benefit of that money to invest. Granted that the present surplus will be dis tributed to pensioners as well as to present contributors; but if there is to be any equity at all I believe that people who have resigned from the Service should receive some benefit from the surplus. 
I believe that the surplus could have been dealt with in other ways. There are various ways in which a surplus can be disposed of. One way is to distribute the surplus to the people concerned - that is, to the pensioners and to the present contributors. This is what is proposed in the legislation now before us. Another method is to distribute it to those who need it most by way of increased superannuation rates or pensions to the widows of officers who have died during their period in the Public Service. In many cases orphan children should receive some greater benefit because often they are in great need. I believe that some effort should have been made to look at the possibility of distributing part of the surplus to these people who are very much in need of assistance. 
The surplus could have been distributed in another way. I believe this is something which could be looked at when the new superannuation scheme is being discussed. I know that for many years the various associations and unions within the Australian Public Service have tried to get a succession of Governments to allow the Superannuation Board to lend money to terminating building societies set up with the contributors' own money for the purpose of assisting contributors to purchase homes. The State Public Service of New South Wales has a scheme under which the State Superannuation Board lends considerable sums of money to building societies and this money is available only to contributors to that superannuation fund. This is one respect in which the previous Government was recreant in respect of doing something for the benefit of the contributors to the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund. If the present Government has not looked at this idea I believe it should do so when it is drawing up the new superannuation scheme. Consideration should be given to the need to widen powers to allow the Superannuation Board to invest in terminating building societies so that the members of the superannuation scheme can gain some benefit from their funds. 
I do not hold with the idea that the bulk of the funds should be invested in Commonwealth loans. I know that at various times the Superannuation Board has lent money out on mortgage. There was one infamous case during my time in the Australian Public Service when many millions of dollars were lent out to David Jones Ltd. That company could not be classed as a great friend of the Australian public servant. Right and left it has fleeced not only Australian public servants but also most people. It certainly is not in need of any assistance. A firm like David Jones Ltd was able to receive funds from the Superannuation Board yet the Superannuation Board in its wisdom - I do not know whether it is precluded by law from doing so - would not lend out money to its own contributors. It was their money that the Board was lending out. 
I think that a fault in the superannuation system that has been in existence for the Australian Public Service is that the Government of the day does not make the contribution at the same point of time as the contributor makes his. That is to the Government's discredit. Only at the point of retirement or the point of death does the Government assume its responsibility in relation to the superannuation fund. I know of no other mutual superannuation fund that operates on the same basis. Invariably in private enterprise with life assurance schemes of superannuation the contribution is made by the employer at the same time as it is made by the employee. In that way it costs, the employee less. If that had applied to the Superannuation Board for Australian public servants the contributor - the employee - would have paid far less to the superannuation scheme than he pays now. I suggest that that is one of the reasons why we have this huge surplus. 
Frankly, I think it is disgraceful that a surplus of $70m could occur. Obviously there is something wrong with the scheme when we find surpluses like that. The scheme cannot be properly costed if we end up having to distribute to the people who paid in an amount of $70m after a period of 10 years. For example, let us look at what this quinquennial review - even though it is a 10- year period - .has thrown up. I seem to have been critical of previous governments and of my own Government in this matter but I believe that it is constructive criticism. That is the role of a member of the Parliament. In my view, criticism should never be destructive; it should be constructive. It should be something for the advisers to the Government and the Ministry to think about. I hope that some of the points I have made today will be brought to the attention of the Treasurer and to the attention of the Superannuation Board when the new superannuation scheme is being considered. A new Superannuation scheme will be introduced under this Government. Should the Opposition be foolish enough to refuse Supply, I know what the result will be. Labor will still sweep the polls because in a short period the Australian people have seen the benefit of good government compared with 23 years of maladjustment, malfunction and bad government. In 18 months this Government has shown what it can do. I suggest that the points I have raised be considered by the Treasurer when he is considering the new superannuation fund. 
 Will the Minister for Transport say what can be done about the inconvenience and lack of real service to the travelling public through the parallel schedules of our major domestic airlines, which mean that planes from both Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia leave for their destinations at the same time? 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing and Construction. As the Minister responsible for the administration of the defence service homes scheme, will the Minister tell the House whether there is any truth in a claim by the New South Wales State  President  of the Returned Services League,  Mr Hines,  that the Government proposes to limit eligibility for defence service home loans to 10 years after discharge? Can the Minister say whether there is any truth in this claim by  Mr Hines?  If there is not, will he reassure the tens of thousands of exservicemen eligible for such loans by issuing a firm denial? 

Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="089131197407114_67_0.jpg"></graphic>

As the Prime Minister stated at the recent Premier's Conference, we propose to press on with the urban public transport programs we have initiated. He reiterated the commitment the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  made in the 1973 Budget speech, that is, that our outlays in this field will increase rapidly in 1974-75 and beyond as this major new capital works program gets under way. This approach will enable the public transport systems to begin to reduce the difference in the services that they provide as compared with that available to the private motorist. 
I should like to illustrate the base from which this program must commence. The last large scale investment in urban public transport was in the 1920s and 1930s, when Sydney and Melbourne undertook electrification of their suburban rail systems. Indeed much of current rolling stock dates from that period. From that time there was little investment in public transport beyond the ad hoc acquisition of rolling stock until work was recently commenced on the Eastern Suburbs railway and the Melbourne underground. In 1970-71, for example, capital expenditure on urban public transport was $30m of which one-third was for the Eastern Suburbs railway in Sydney and the Melbourne underground. Capital investment for those systems actually in operation represented the 'massive' investment of 2c per passenger journey. 
Australia's history of inadequacy of investment is reflected in the decline in the usage of public transport. The number of passenger journeys on government operated urban services declined from 1,122 million to 948 million, a fall of 16 per cent during the 10-year period from 1961-62 to 1970-71. In fact, as the urban population rose from 5.7 million to 7.5 million over that time the actual number of journeys per capita on government operated public transport declined by a staggering 35 per cent. I believe the rate of this decline in the usage of urban public transport is increasing. The number of passenger journeys fell by a further 42 million in 1971-73, a decline in usage that was more than double the average rate of decline for the previous 10 years. 
Public transport operators have been caught in a vicious circle - declining patronage, reducing revenue, and increasing losses. So fares are increased and/or services reduced. These actions cause more people to turn to alternative means of transport, that is their motor vehicles, thus further increasing the losses which operators sustain and aggravating the road problems thus further increasing congestion, pollution and the demand for parkings in central business districts. Such a circle means that delays to this program, such as that which resulted from the action of the honourable Liberal and Country Party gentlemen opposite in forcing the recent election, are even more intolerable. Delays make the base, from which the program must build, even lower. 
Whilst details of losses of the railway's urban passenger operations are not available the sorry story of urban transport's financial position is illustrated by the results of government bus and tram operations. Take the period between 1961-62 and 1970-71. Losses on these services in the capital cities rose from $8. 2m to SI 9.1m, an increase of 133 per cent. Our initiative to improve the standard of city travel will have an impact upon the finances of the public transport systems. Under the terms of the Agreement the Australian Government will provide by way of non-repayable grants twothirds of the cost of projects approved for assistance. That two-thirds of the capital costs is provided without the operating authority being required to meet interest charges means that some projects included in the scheme will be financially attractive to the operator. However, even with the two-thirds contribution other projects will not improve the operating authority's financial position. 
The position I have outlined makes it all the more desirable that the States do not increase their charges. I am reminded of the events that followed the increase in fares in July 1971. Before that increase New South Wales had managed to halt the long term trend in the decline in the number of passenger journeys. In 1970-71 there was an increase in passenger journeys by rail of over 3 million in the number of passenger journeys in 1969-70. However, following the increase of fares in 1971-72 the number of passenger journeys fell by almost 25 million. As I previously noted the fall in usage of urban public transport in 1971-72 was more than double the average rate of decline over the previous 10 years. So by one action the New South Wales Government reversed a trend towards increasing patronage and greatly contributed to the steepest decline in usage of urban transport systems in over a decade. We cannot afford to have this experience repeated. 
In the case of the overall State railway operations the Australian Government is aware that their annual losses are increasing rapidly. In 1970-71 these losses totalled $110m but by 1972-73 they had risen to $2 16m, a rise of almost 100 per cent in just 2 years. In addition a recent press release by  Mr Morris,  the New South Wales Minister for Transport, forecast a loss of $126m for the New South Wales railways in 1973-74, an increase of almost 60 per cent in that year. The Australian Government is mindful of these problems and the need to upgrade our railways so that they can undertake their share of Australia's transport task. 
On 8 February 1973 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wrote to all State Premiers offering to enter into discussions on the transfer of responsibility for State railway systems. Four States, New South Wales, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania, agreed to enter into discussions without commitment. I was disappointed that the Victorian and Queensland governments are so insular that they were not even prepared to discuss this major initiative which could have achieved significant benefits for everyone in Australia. I should point out that the Prime Minister repeated this offer at the recent Premiers Conference where the Premiers were bemoaning their inability to meet the financial demands placed on them. Yet so far only the Tasmanian Government has made a positive offer to the Australian Government to transfer its rail system. This offer is at present under consideration. It is regrettable that the Western Australian Premier has, since the Premiers Conference, indicated that he is not prepared to consider further the possible transfer of that railway system. In doing so he has reverted to a 19th century approach to railways and has denied his State the benefits of joining other States in the 20th century. Also with regard to rail the Prime Minister and the South Australian Premier have recently signed an agreement to construct a new standard gauge railway from Crystal Brook to Adelaide. When the project, which is estimated to cost about $80m, is completed all mainland capital cities will be linked to Australia's standard gauge rail system. 
The Prime Minister and the Premier of South Australia have also signed an agreement to construct a new standard gauge railway from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. This new line will replace the old narrow gauge line from Maree to Alice Springs that is subject to disruptions from flooding in the Lake Eyre Basin. The new line will avoid the flood areas where possible and will provide a vastly improved service to the centre and north of Australia. The cost of the line is estimated at about $85m and construction which will commence shortly will take about 5 years. The Agreement which this Bill will ratify has been produced as a result of extensive discussions at both ministerial and official levels and takes account of the interests and rights of all parties. One of the practical features of the Agreement is that it provides scope for discussion on any issues which might arise during its operation. Another major initiative contained in the Agreement is the provision for Australian Government representation on Stare government bodies concerned with the forward planning and development of policies relating to urban transport. In accordance with the Agreement all States have now made offers to the Australian Government for representation on bodies concerned with the planning and policy of urban public transport. 
It is through this participation that we will be able to facilitate the interchange of ideas between the States, a practice which has been sadly lacking in the past. We will ensure that there is no needless duplication of effort between States in urban transport and we will be exercising our responsibilities to the taxpayers of this country in the expenditure of their money. Through the representation on the State bodies we will also be able, as a complement to our broad urban strategies, clearly to advise the States on our objectives in urban transport and to have them taken into account in the development of their programs. For our own part we are aware that Australia does not lead the world in transportation. Consequently, in December 1973 I accepted on behalf of the Australian Government associate membership of the European Conference of Ministers of Transport. This body, which discusses initiatives and problems in transport, could be regarded in many ways as an international equivalent of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. Like ATAC the ECMT meets twice yearly and I have recently returned from ECMT'S latest meeting in Vienna where extensive discussions were held on roads, road safety and railways. I have explained why the Australian Government believes that there is a need for a program to improve urban public transport. I would now like briefly to describe the types of projects that will be initially undertaken. 
In March 1973 the States were invited to submit a program for capital improvements over the 5 years to 1977-78. For the allocation of funds in 1973 the approach adopted by the Australian Government was to consider only those projects that were proposed to commence in 1973-74. This approach will be con tinued throughout the years of the program as it enables both the States and the Australian Government to maintain flexibility within the program. As our knowledge of urban transport services and the requirements of the travelling public improves programs will be altered to take account of these requirements. At present the proposals for projects to commence in 1974-75, are being considered by the Australian Government. In determining which projects would be supported for commencement in a particular year, the Australian Government has to consider the allocation of funds in its overall budgetary context, and the demands that projects will place on other industries, particularly in the field of construction. 
One major deficiency throughout the urban systems is the age, almost antiquity, of rolling stock currently in use. Over 550 carriages of the Sydney urban passenger rail system are at least 45 years old and more than 500 of the Melbourne carriages are over 45 years old with some having been constructed in the last century. The full impact of past lack of investment can be realised when it is appreciated that half of the suburban passenger carriages in Sydney and Melbourne are over 45 years old. In addition, approximately half of the Melbourne tram fleet of almost 700 vehicles is over 40 years old. 
The Australian Government allocated $ 17.26m, or 55 per cent of its intended 1973- 74 expenditure for the acquisition of new rolling stock. Under our first year's allocation, the New South Wales Public Transport Commission will be able to purchase 92 new double-deck passenger rail cars. In Melbourne, as well as providing $3. 63m for the acquisition of 30 passenger rail carriages and $150,000 for new trams, we will provide $540,000 for the purchase of 30 buses, to replace the 20-year old vehicles presently in use. In Adelaide, Perth and Hobart the acquisition of new buses is a significant factor in their 1973-74 programs. 
Another major project which we have selected for inclusion within the 1973-74 program is the quadruplication of the railway line between Granville and Penrith, estimated to cost $1 7.2m. This project will greatly improve services to the rapidily expanding western area of Sydney; an area where it should be noted that the Australian Government is taking a number of initiatives. Additional tracks will be constructed in Melbourne on various lines in order to relieve congestion on the rail system. When completed, this extra capacity will enable the number of express services operated to and from the outer suburban areas to be increased. In Adelaide and Brisbane we will be assisting with the electrification of urban rail links. There will be continuing benefits in terms of reduced operating costs and more efficient railway services arising from these efforts. Separate bus ways and bus only lanes in Sydney and Perth are included in the program and the facilities for waiting passengers will be improved in most cities. The allocation of Australian Government funds for those projects which have so far been selected for inclusion is shown in a table.  Mr Acting Speaker,  rather than read the allocations, I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a table. 
Is the honourable member taking a point of order? 
I ask the Minister for Health: Is it a fact that in Leichhardt, a suburb of Sydney, there is in existence a women's medical centre operated by a group of women who previously ran an abortion referral service known as 'Control'? Is the centre operating as an abortion clinic? Is the Minister aware that it has been alleged that the Australian Government gave a grant of $33,000 to the New South Wales Government to cover the first 6 months operation of this clinic? Is this a fact? If it is, does the grant of 533,000 herald a change in Government policy on abortion? 
I was pleased to hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  say that the Opposition supports this legislation inasmuch as it applies to the closing of a tax loophole. I might add that the present attitude of honourable members opposite is in strange contrast to their attitude when in Government, when they showed an amazing inactivity in the introduction of legislation to close tax avoidance loopholes. As was explained by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his second reading speech on 1 1 July 1974, this Bill has 4 main purposes. Firstly, its purpose is to close avenues for avoidance of withholding tax on interest on foreign loans; secondly, it is designed to deal with the liability to tax of allowances and benefits received by members of the defence forces under the new pay code; thirdly, it will deal with the deductions for contributions for retirement benefits by members of the Australian Parliament and members of the defence forces; and, finally, it involves the phasing in of arrangements for the collection of company tax by quarterly payments. Other than the provisions concerning collecting of company tax, this Bill is identical with the Income Tax Assessment Bill which lapsed upon the double dissolution of the Parliament. 
On 2 July 1973 the Treasurer announced that the Government had decided to introduce amendments to correct a deficiency in the 10 per cent withholding tax on interest paid to overseas lenders by Australian residents or by non-residents who use overseas borrowings in an Australian business. There are loopholes which need to be closed and this Bill seeks to do just that. Some financial institutions have sought to take advantage of these loopholes. These financial institutions, which have foreign branches, have sought to obtain exemption from the withholding tax in respect of loans raised through their foreign branches for use not only by those who are Australian owned and controlled to the required extent but also by any Australian clients at all. The loss in revenue by allowing this to happen is considerable and the Treasurer is to be congratulated on bringing in this legislation which closes up yet another tax loophole. 
It is no secret that getting through the loopholes, or tax avoidance as it is commonly called, is a game which is practised by skilled legal practitioners acting on behalf of their wealthy clients. It is also no secret that the previous Liberal-Country Party governments did very little to plug the loopholes, and understandably so, as they had no wish to hurt their wealthy supporters. In sharp contrast is the record of this Government. Legislation has been quickly enacted since December 1972 to close tax loopholes which have been used for years. No one can guess how many hundreds of millions of dollars have been lost to the revenue in years gone by due to the inaction of previous Liberal-Country Party governments. That tax burden had to be borne by those who were least able to afford to pay their taxes. 
This legislation relates to another example of a tax avoidance scheme which is now being closed off. I wish to quote from an address given by the Commissioner of Taxation,  Sir Edward  Cain, to the Institute of Chartered Accountants on 7 June 1974. Amongst other things,  Sir Edward  Cain said: 
As Commissioner I am accustomed to rebukes. I expect them. No one concerned with advising a Government on tax avoidance measures, with instructing the Parliamentary Counsel on remedial legislation and with administering such legislation could hope to escape criticism. Criticism of tax avoidance legislation does not come from the overwhelming bulk of the taxpaying community. This great mass of people rarely has the desire or, indeed, the opportunity to practice tax avoidance, and it does not waste sympathy on those who can and do practice avoidance. 
He went on: 
A law that seeks to check tax avoidance - and for that matter, tax law in general - must often be arbitrary in its principles. Those that practice tax avoidance use devious and minutely planned schemes. They must expect that remedial legislation will, in turn, be devious and complex and lengthy. It is no use filling one hole in a sieve if 100 others remain open. It is no use filling those 100 other holes if the remaining metal in the sieve has undisclosed weaknesses. So it is with tax avoidance legislation. It must seek to stop all disclosed leaks in the law and provide for others that may come to light. 
This is an example of what has happened. The Bill presently before the House is an attempt to plug those leaks. 

 Sir Edward Cain said further:  ... tax avoidance legislation attracts no criticism from the great bulk of the community and any criticism by the accounting profession, whilst understandable, should divorce itself from emotion and should encompass an acknowledgment of the fact that one has to meet fire with fire. There will, of course, always be criticism from those who themselves practice tax avoidance but this is hardly a matter for any concern. 
He stated also: 
It is . . . misleading to describe the payment of tax as a burden. More correctly it is the cost to us of living in Australia and enjoying the Australian standard of life. It is the price we pay for the way we live and for the facilities provided by our Government. Tax becomes a true burden when it is unfairly shared. One is only burdened with tax when he pays more in tax from his annual state of wellbeing than does his neighbour who enjoys the same level of wellbeing but contrives to escape his proper tax. In this situation tax does become a burden, but it is a burden which is a creature of the tax avoider. ... tax avoidance is practised by the few at the expense of the many. Tax avoidance schemes are devious and go to extreme lengths in creating unreal and labyrinth-like situations, and they have to be fought with legislation which is difficult to frame and often difficult to follow. 
The taxation legislation now before us, I think, falls within that category: A great deal of it is difficult to understand and to follow, but it is absolutely necessary. 
I heartily agree with the sentiment of the Commissioner of Taxation,  Sir Edward  Cain, and I congratulate him on his outspokenness. Over the years, Australia has been blessed with capable and honest Commissioners of Taxation and taxation officers. It is only when we as legislators follow their advice that we will have a fair and equitable taxation system and revenue laws. 
I wish to raise one point in relation to a matter mentioned by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  I refer to the new part of this legislation, which was not included in legislation previously introduced, bringing companies into line, with other sections of the community with respect to payment of taxation. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that companies are to be deprived of the use of funds by the payment of company tax in quarterly instalments. I notice that when the Opposition parties were in government they had no compunction about introducing legislation to require wage earners to pay out of their weekly earnings their share of the taxation burden, not in quarterly payments but each week. Nor did they have any sympathy for other businesses. 
I would suggest that there is a little bit of pious hypocrisy in the words used by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in attempting at this stage to try to hammer the Government, as he was trying to do by claiming that we were by this legislation placing companies in an impossible situation. All that has happened is that these companies now are being put in the same situation as has applied for many, many years to wage earners and businesses. I congratulate the Treasurer on bringing this piece of legislation down. If in the future there are any further tax loopholes that need closing, I hope that the Treasurer will have no hesitation in bringing down the necessary remedial legislation. 

Order! The honourable member for Hotham will have his opportunity to speak at a later time after the Minister has concluded and I suggest that honourable members resist the temptation to interject. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="089131197408013_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

So far so good. I turn now to that clause in the Bill dealing with free grants which, I gather, are to date back to July 1973. Cream producers in particular will be able to get free grants to enable them to transfer their type of production to whole milk production. They will also receive grants to provide refrigerated vats and to enable tankers to reach those vats on the farms. It is at this point that one must query whether the incorporation of such a provision in the Bill is not blind stupidity. I can imagine the Government being motivated by compassion in believing that this should be done but why on earth should the Government support sections of the industry which are not viable? I do not pretend to know all of Australia's dairying areas but by location many cream suppliers are not viable and cannot be viable. Some are in locations where they could be viable and where dairy farms could become economic units. 
In some parts of South Australia this provision will be greeted with amusement. Every worthwhile dairy farmer has long since got refrigerated vats. It is only in outlying areas where this provision does not obtain. I believe that in Bordertown the milk factory is no longer functioning. Milk from that area is being sent to the Mount Compass factory which is in my home area. It is only in areas like Bordertown that the proposed free grants will have any impact. If the Government is keen to make free grants for the provision of vats why does it not make available free bulls for artificial insemination? Would that not have a better effect? Why, in the case of the wine industry, should not the Government make available free of charge nematode resistant stock to enable grape growers to replenish their vineyards? Why has the Government proposed this action to assist farms which probably should have been out of business long ago? The proposal seems to lack cohesion. It does not seem properly directed and I question whether it is a proper use of funds. It may not be to my advantage to condemn the Government for this proposal because perhaps 1 per cent or 2 per cent of the dairy farmers in South Australia who will benefit are in my electorate, but it would be wrong if I did not point to this lack of proper economic consideration. 
From a study of this Bill one can only assume that what is not in it is far more important than what is in it because surely before making moves to assist cream suppliers to become whole milk suppliers the Government should ensure that the factories to which such milk is to be directed are capable of receiving it. This is not clear in many dairying areas of Australia today, so I am informed. Also in many areas, including the State of South Australia which is primarily, compared with other States, a cheese producer, we want whole milk directed not so much into cheese factories but into butter factories. The reason for this is that powdered buttermilk is the sort of processed commodity for which there seems to be a recurring world demand. There is not an awful lot of sense in an equalised dairying scheme running throughout Australia to be selling cheese, which is primarily an export product of the dairy industry, to Japan and to Canada at returns of 25c to 27c per lb when the home market has to pay 70c per lb in order to equalise the return. 
The sort of theory and re-thinking that we had hoped the Government would adopt on a national scale include the thoughts that I am now putting before the House. There is not much sense in doing these things until our factories are rationalised. To have a dairy factory every 3 miles in the south-east of Australia is apparent nonsense. Nowadays all of them have cheese masters, which run for 24 hours a day, but they sit idle for at least 4 months of the year. Many of them are idle for a longer period. Surely the first move which a government which had thought through the need for a re-structuring of the dairying industry would make would be to tackle the problem at factory level so that at least assistance is given to some factories to go out of production and so that at least some assistance is given to the remainder of them to be viable. Then dairy production can begin to be re-phased into proper channels. Encouragement by this Government to move the national dairy herd towards payment on the basis of solids, not fat (SNF) would have been integral in this proper redirectioning 
I think that one can say that the Government is culpable for also not giving encouragement to State governments in order to do this, because in this way at least the calculation of payment would be put back on to the food value of milk. The cream producers, for instance, would not be paid to put the food value of his milk down the necks of pigs or calves or whatever else is going. The sooner we have some broader thinking in this regard, the better. I suppose this must be the fifth time, if not the tenth time, that I have spoken along these lines in this House. In thinking of the need to restructure factories, let everybody who has been overseas recently think back on the big markets, the big emporiums, with their dairy display counters from which one can make a selection. This also will give some idea of the areas in which the dairying industry is deficient in diversifying its production. No factory can diversify its production, nor retailers properly handle it, as long as we have dairy factories sprinkled higgledypiggledy across the whole distance of Australian dairying areas. We have to have economy of scale. We have to have enough intake to make production of diverse lines worthwhile. 
I do not think I am far wrong when I suggest that the dairying industry of tomorrow will have to worry not only about new products, such as yoghurt and chocolate and coffee flavoured homogenised milk which are making a very big difference in many areas today, but also about the newer low fat melts, which are virtually unobtainable in Australia today, and cheese spreads. The popular cheese spreads on the continent incorporate shrimps and gherkins and all sorts of things which seem strange to me. Furthermore, with the industrial upset in the industry, homogenised milk is obviously a thing of the future. People will not buy milk every day, even if it is delivered house to house every day which by the look of things certainly will not be the case. People in the future will buy homogenised milk as part of their staple diet. 
All I can say is that if another dairying Bill is introduced in the Budget session a lot of work will have to be done in it. A lot of re-phasing and re-structuring has yet to be done. Intelligent members of the dairying industry know this and expect it to happen, and they will not just stand off and say: 'Hear, hear!' every time they are given a free vat or a free tube of penicillin or something similar. This is economic nonsense. It is not helping the dairying industry to restructure itself. I suppose if I pressed the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  who is sitting at the table, he would say: 'Yes, but we have taken away the dairy subsidy; we have taken away, in phases, the bounty on cheese; we have taken away the bounty on butter; we have taken away, or are about to take away, the bounty on processed milk powders; and we have taken away the superphosphate bounty'. He would then say: 'Therefore, we have to give some of this back'. But the Government should not be giving it back unless it is part of a restructuring pattern. The Opposition's attitude is that the Government has not begun to grapple with the problem in this Bill. 
One could elaborate much more on various aspects of the Bill but I think, because I know the House is short of time at present, I would prefer to leave my remarks there. It is my sincere hope and, as I say, the hope of many people that the Government will adopt a loftier attitude in future in relation to such Bills and in relation to the economic criteria behind them because, frankly, this is as much a travesty of all economic approach to an industry that I could possibly imagine. I stress again the point on which I began my remarks earlier by saying that the marginal dairying scheme has to go ahead. The Government, I think, has properly broadened the scheme which was introduced by a previous government and which has already paid off handsomely. 
If perhaps there is one more point to make before I resume my seat, it is this: Do not let us run away with the idea that the marginal dairy scheme did much to shift dairy farmers in Queensland and in New South Wales from the dairying industry into beef production, because this would be blinding ourselves. It may have encouraged that shift but what shifted dairy men into beef production, of course, were the market forces and the returns for beef at that time. It would not surprise me if by the end of this year we did not see, in economic areas at any rate, quite a lot of people returning to milking cows for the first time in 5 or 6 years. I sound that as a note of warning, but I will support the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to the tertiary allowances scheme and in particular to the bricklaying course which is being run at Randwick Technical College. By way of preamble I state that on 30 July 1974 one of my constituents was advised that die course was an approved course under the tertiary allowances scheme but that so far he has not received one zac in payment. My question is: In view of the fact that it is within my knowledge that a decision as to whether it will be paid and when it will be paid is yet to be made by the Department of Education's head office in Canberra, will the Minister do something to get the Department off its backside and release the decision? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
The Inquiry on which this Report is based was conducted by the Committee established in the Twenty-eighth Parliament. The views, conclusions and recommendations, however, are those of the present Committee. 
Briefly, the Report underlines the value of price investigations that encompass an industry rather than the individual companies that constitute that industry. Thus, the industry examination shows that the starting point for analysis is the domination of the market by the two major manufacturers who between them control over 80 per cent of the market. Interestingly enough, where their market power is reduced, as it is in the dishwashing/liquid detergent part of the market (where they control less than 45 per cent), cost increases have been absorbed with the result that the rate of price increase has been less frequent than in other sections of the market. 
With the above exception, the Committee has found that this industry exhibits an absence of real or effective competition. Incidentally, this conclusion is not very different to the one arrived at by the United Kingdom Monopolies Commission that examined the household detergents industry in that country. 
The absence of real or effective competition has been reflected in- 
the absence of price competition (with the exception of dishwashing detergents referred to previously); 
the unnecessary proliferation of brands; 
an excessive amount of advertising (which also misleads the consumer); 
unduly high profits. 
It is against this background that the Committee drew up its recommendations. The first two recommendations deal with reducing the level of advertising by the two major manufacturers. The Committee has asked the AttorneyGeneral to inform the major manufacturers of the Committee 's wish to see them enter into a voluntary agreement to reduce the amount of advertising so that the consumer could benefit from lower retail prices. The Committee is convinced that such an agreement would confer a specific and substantial benefit to the public which would not be available without the agreement (see Section 90 (5) Trade Practices Act 1974). 
The Committee also asks the Australian Government to invite the Prices Justification Tribunal to examine the question of excessive advertising in this industry. This would be particularly appropriate if the major manufacturers are reluctant to enter into a voluntary agreement. 
The other recommendations could be divided mainly into two sections. The first deals with the establishment of standards and the testing of products against these standards. These recommendations are made to the Minister for Science who is responsible for the Interim Commission on Consumer Standards, directly second set of recommendations directly benefit the consumer. The Committee has recommended that some financial assistance be given to consumer organisations to assist them publicise the results of the tests. In another recommendation the Committee has asked the Minister for Science to assist consumers to draw up questionnaires that would ask manufacturers and others to substantiate the claims made in their advertising. 
These recommendations could assist the consumer to make a more informed choice by reducing consumer exposure to meaningless messages such as 'whiter than white' and also by increasing consumer awareness of the quality of competing products. This in turn could lead to greater purchases of good quality, lower priced products and thereby hopefully permit price competition rather than competition based mostly on advertising and brands. 
Finally, once again as a means of encouraging competition in the domestic market, the Committee has recommended that the question of the level of protection given to the industry be referred to the Industries Assistance Commission. 
To sum up then, the view of the Committee is that the adoption of these various recommendations would have a twofold impact. First, there would be a major reduction in retail prices if the level of advertising were reduced. This would constitute visible benefits to the consumer. Second, the other recommendations could increase the efficiency of the industry by stimulating a more meaningful type of competition. This would result in prices being at a lower level than they would otherwise be and would accrue to the consumer in the longer term. 
-If the honourable member raises the issue too much, the  Deputy Speaker  can bring him to order as this debate is restricted to the ambit of the Bill. 
My speech must progress fairly quickly, as my time is rather limited, to a question that I placed on the notice paper. I think it is a very important question. The Minister may care to give attention to it in considering the comments made during the debate. I put this question on notice on 16 July this year. It is the same as a question which was on the notice paper prior to the dissolution of the Parliament earlier this year. I have asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development: 
What is the total sum allocated to each State pursuant to the Sewerage Agreements Act 1 973? 
What are the names of the relevant authorities within each State that have received grants, and what part of the grant mentioned in answer to part 1 was received by these authorities? 
Have the moneys allocated been collected by the relevant authorities and spent? 
If so, what works have been completed or subsequently commenced by the authorities detailed in answer to part 2 and, in particular, what sums have been allocated to each project and spent, and in what Federal Electoral Divisions were these works carried out or commenced? 
I make the observation that it appears that some of the information that I have been seeking for some months from the Minister appears to have been made available to at least one honourable member who participated in this debate earlier today. I refer to the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  who was able to allude in some detail to the manner in which moneys made available through the previous agreement were spent. I regard this as a most serious matter and one to which the Minister ought to address himself when he replies later in this debate. 
As I understand it, the Gold Coast City Council was offered moneys under the previous agreement- the amount was $750,000- on the same basis as other authorities had accepted funds. That City Council accepted some $200,000 on those terms. It needs approximately $48. 5m to complete its proposed sewerage scheme. A need certainly exists for these moneys. Yet this responsible authority believes that it would not be responsible if, for its part, it were to accept money made available on these terms. I think this is a matter which ought to be considered and it would be worth while for honourable members to know and to have received by answer, as I should have to a question on notice, particulars of those authorities which have had money offered to them but which have not accepted it because of the nature of the unreasonable terms which the Government has sought to impose. 
I want to deal with one other matter. When I spoke previously on the principal Bill I drew attention to the importance of a proposed scheme to pump sewage from Sydney over the mountains. Under this scheme sewage would be pumped from those suburbs that have been developed very close to the mountains. This would eliminate the need to pump the sewage from these areas to the seaside and there is a prospect of its being used for farming and agricultural purposes. I observe from an article in the 'National Times' that a gentleman by the name of Sutton has a similar program in mind for the Gosford and Wyong districts. I believe that if this Government wants to embark upon any sort of national program it ought to be looking at the area of fundamental research as it has done in relation to urban road research planning and urban transport research planning. There is a need for fundamental research in this area that the responsible authorities have been unable to undertake. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

-I address a question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I refer to the necessary investigations which must be carried out by the Department of Immigration before people can be granted approval to migrate to Australia. Is it a fact that a large number of applications have been lodged by residents of Fiji to migrate to Australia? Is there a considerable delay in the processing of these applications? Will the Minister give consideration to increasing the staff of the Department of Immigration in Fiji to enable the more expeditious processing of these applications for permanent entry to Australia? 
-The Deputy Leader of the Country Party has moved an amendment to the Wool Marketing (Loan) Bill 1974. Is the amendment seconded? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="090131197009254_47_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Government has argued that the monetary restrictions were applied to counter the excess of liquidity generated during 1972. But as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has pointed out, the money supply- in seasonally adjusted terms- grew in similarly high proportions in 1972 as it did during the first three quarters of 1973 because of the present Government's fiscal policies. The point of distinction, and the basis of this Government's ineptitude, is that during 1972 stimulus was required. During 1973, with the economy moving strongly ahead, restraint and an over-riding sense of moderation were required. In short, the Government's monetary policies applied to compensate for its fiscal programs were applied too late and too severely. Notwithstanding the monetary expansion during the first three quarters of 1973, monetary restrictions imposed after last year's Budget caused the narrowly defined money supply to increase by only 2 per cent during the 12 months ending in June this year. 
Because of the severe impact of monetary restrictions on the level of economic activity- and therefore of course on unemployment- the Opposition argued, before the present Budget, that the growth in government outlays should be moderated to allow a relaxation of monetary policy. The program we advocated was simply one which, in essence, recognised the fundamental need to achieve an adequate balance between fiscal and monetary policies. If, as forecast by the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research, the money supply falls by around $1 billion during 1974-75 the effects will be severely contractionary. It will prevent any recovery of private sector investment and add immense pressure to the general interest rate structure. This, in turn, will substantially increase cost pressures throughout the economy as firms and wage earners seek to pass on the effects through increased price and incomes claims. 
The Government's essential rationale underlying the Budget is that it purports to form the basis for community restraint and co-operation. While the Opposition parties fully support that objective, we believe that the provisions of the Budget fall far short of laying an adequate groundwork for such a program. In so doing the Budget will add materially to the problem of cost-push inflation in Australia. By budgeting for a 45 per cent increase in income tax receipts the Government has completely ignored the impact of tax compensation in the current level of incomes claims. The so-called 'tax cut' of $430m has served merely to reduce the rate of increase in income tax collections from 49 per cent to 45 per cent. This represents an enormous departure from the formula advocated by the Opposition parties in respect of the need- the overriding compulsion, economically and in terms of equity- for taxation concessions. We believe that it is essential that the percentage growth in personal income tax collections should be broadly equal to the percentage increase in average weekly earnings during 1974-75. On the Budget's assumed 22.5 per cent increase in average weekly earnings this would require a tax cut of around $950m- more than double the tax cut provided in the Budget which has been brought down. 
This is, of course, vital if wage restraint is to represent in the Australian community a feasible proposition. On the Budget's own assumptions the average wage earner, married with 2 children, will suffer a net decline in real income of over 1 per cent during 1974-75. This is in spite of a 22.5 per cent increase in take home pay. A married man now earning $10,000 per annum, will, on the same basis, see his real income decline by 3.5 per cent. The Budget has been deliberately designed to lower the living standards of the majority of Australian wage and salary earners. On no account can a formula of this type be put forward as a basis for incomes restraint. The Budget has done nothing to defuse the magnitude of tax induced incomes claims. Neither is it a monument to income redistribution. The minimum wage earner, at the end of 2 financial years under this Government, will have improved his real income by a marginal 1.6 per cent. Even this improvement is dependent on a 22.5 per cent increase in  money income  this year. (Extension of time granted). 
Not only is the quantum of tax concessions totally inadequate but its incidence pays no regard to the income levels of those in the forefront of militant wage negotiations. For example, the majority of metal trades employees receive incomes around average weekly earnings and not based on the minimum wage. Thus the tax adjustments in this Budget have in no way been designed as part of any cohesive, deliberate policy to achieve incomes restraint. 
Not only has the Government failed fully to utilise the income tax mechanism to combat inflation it has totally neglected a policy of selective reductions in indirect taxation. Such reductions should have been implemented with the specific intention of reducing the prices of certain goods and services. The impact of indirect taxation, substantially increased in the 1973-74 Budget and the July mini-budget, is not only costinflationary, it is socially inequitable. The $70m reduction in revenue caused by the removal of radio and television licence fees would, on economic grounds, have been far better conceded in the area of sales taxation. 
In short, the Government has made a major error by permitting an almost unbridled increase in both the expenditure and the receipts components of the Budget. It has constructed a budget which is not simply out of balance with economic reality; it is contrary to the clear policy lines established by the Prime Minister at the Premiers' Conference and the Treasurer in the 1974 mini-budget. It is a budget which avoids measures to counteract cost-inflation and which poses a new dilemma so far as demand forces are concerned. On any analysis, this Budget has failed to meet the economic and social objectives which the majority of Australians have the right to expect from a responsible national Government. 
The 1974-75 Budget has a number of principal implications in addition to the immediate effects so far as inflation and unemployment are concerned. A most disturbing feature of the Budget is its impact on Australia's real economic growth. During the last decade of Liberal-Country Party administration, real non-farm gross domestic product grew at an annual average rate of 5.63 per cent. That growth was achieved in a period of unparalleled economic stability. During 1973-74, under this Government, real non-farm gross domestic product increased by 5.46 per cent. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a statistical table setting out these facts. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="090131197009265_63_5.jpg"></graphic>

-The honourable member's time has expired. 
-As the honourable member for Blaxland is not a Minister he is not required under the Standing Orders to table the document. 
On the other hand to overdevelop the milling side of this industry in its infancy would place undue stress on the borrowing credibility of the emergent Australian producers. 
If that does not answer all of the criticism of the Leader of the Australian Country Parry I do not know what does. That demonstrates that what he is saying is completely untrue. Everybody in the know in the industry knows that there is an oversupply situation and that we would be foolish to sell into it. In fact the countries of the world which have been given the option of taking up their selling rights- the producers' club- are letting their rights pass beyond them to the next producer because they are waiting to sell at the right price. That is precisely what we intend to do. 
Taking up the point made in the letter, the Minister has said that the Australian Government will set up its own mill to refine uranium with a throughput to meet the demands at the time. He mentioned the figure of 3,500 tons. That figure may vary. The point is that the uranium producers are going to be treated fairly. The contracts which the Liberal-Country Party Government criminally signed 3 weeks before the election, at which it lost office, which had to be a graft situation of one sort or another, were for $5 - 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I refer now to Huon in the electorate of Franklin. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  has not bothered to come into the House for this debate. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I claim to have been grossly misrepresented because the record will clearly show that I was, in fact, in this House for that particular debate. 
-I am normally a peaceful person. I would not like the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  to leave the House until he has heard my remarks. .  Mr Lynch-  I am going to Melbourne. 
The honourable member may be going to Melbourne, but I was surprised and rather saddened by the cheap jibes made by a man who should know better. I will leave it at that. Other than that I will start my remarks in the way in which it is traditional to start a speech in this House. I support and highly commend the Australian Tourist Commission Bill not because it emanates from my side of the House- the Government side- but because I have the highest respect for the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  and also because it represents, in my eyes, another step forward in the right direction in this field. For many years the Commission has been extremely successful in its overseas promotional activities. Australia, in fact, relies heavily on the Australian Tourist Commission to provide expertise and ultimately to sell our tourism in overseas countries. 
Earlier this year the Commission was charged with the extra responsibility of entering the domestic tourist promotion field. The aim of the Government was quite simple and was clearly defined. It was to induce and encourage more Australians to travel in their own country. With the speed and efficiency which is characteristic of the Australian Tourist Commission, it has produced a handy little tourist guide book and has launched a massive newspaper, magazine and television advertising campaign all under the same slogan: 'Australia, a Land of Things to do'. But I understand that that is only the beginning of the Commission's involvement in this field of domestic promotion which in the past was left to State governments, travel associations and the private sector of the community. The cheap jibes which came from the Deputy Leader of the Opposition make me wonder why in the 23 years in which the Opposition was in government it did absolutely nothing for tourism. 
I understand that the Australian Tourist Commission will expand its activities and, after aiming at the youth market will turn its attention to the middle age group- in which I could be classed- and also to the families and even to the elderly. There are even elderly members of Parliament in this House. By offering all of those groups sufficient information and, even enticement, to make them discover their own country, I feel there is a place within tourism for those who do not want to be run off their feet, who do not want to get in a Pioneer bus- that is not a plug for them- but who just want to sit down and enjoy the natural beauty which this country possesses. 
I went to New Zealand in January of this year. I was sold on New Zealand by the advertisements which appeared on television. I will be quite frank. I was disappointed. There is nothing in New Zealand that even compares with Australia. We have scenery on our Barrier Reef, on the north coast of Queensland- even in areas which members of the Opposition representaround Bundaberg, around Cairns, on the Atherton Tablelands, in the Barrier Reef area, and in the Whitsunday Passage which surpasses any beauty and any tourist potential in the world. I am convinced that it is essential to cater for all classes of people. I am convinced also that the relatively small cost of $400,000 for this project this year will be spent well. The main beneficiaries from any domestic tourism increase, let alone a boom which I hope will happen, will be the private sector of the economy- hotels, the catering industry, tour operators, coach services and others. But the Government feels- quite, rightly- that this industry needs not just prodding but also active assistance if it is to survive the hard times and the prosperous times which will follow later. However, we all know that more will be needed than just an expansion of the Australian Tourist Commission Bill to create boom conditions in the tourist industry. There are many fields where we are still reluctant to venture into the unknown, where Australiansthe private sector as well as officialdom by which I mean government departments- examine new ideas and proposals with a view to seeing why they could not be done rather than working out how they could be done. I am hopeful that some government officials will see the light and do the job of promoting tourism as it should be promoted in my view. 
Honourable members on this side of the House have been saying for a long time that our air fares- both international and domestic- are excessively high. I accept some of the assurances of experts that airlines are making only a marginal profit but I am dubious that government airlines should strive to make these profits at all. I might add that in New Zealand there is only one airline which is a government airline. It runs efficiently. It is a one class system. It runs effectively but it does not run luxuriously. I do not want to see Ansett Airlines of Australia abolished. I think that Ansett provides healthy competition. What I would like to see is TransAustralia Airlines entering into new fields in active competition with its one and only competitor. Because of the enormous distances in our own country- often within one State- a great many people just cannot afford to fly whether the rate per mile is justified or not. The question arises of whether we are really trying to meet these would be travellers halfway or whether we should stick to our strict policy that the justified high air fares must be paid no matter what, even if the aircraft fly half empty. I have experience of this happening. I think every honourable member on both sides of this House will know that many aeroplanes within Australia fly half empty except at peak periods because the fares charged are too high to encourage the number of people in Australia who would love to see Australia to travel by air. 
There is, I realise, a certain snob value in going overseas. Part of the snob value is the fact that one can make people jealous, of one wishes, by going overseas. The ones who are jealous are those who do not go. Those poor people have to suffer 'the slides which are shown to them by the other people who have been overseas and who pound their ears about it. The people who travelled overseas probably, in reality, did not enjoy their trip but because of the large outlay involved they have to convince others that they did enjoy it. When they come home they show you those eternal slides and you have to sit through them. 
I feel that there should be more co-operation between Federal, State and local bodies, railways, coach companies and people involved in other areas which cater for the traveller. In the United States of America we have the famous Greyhound - buses hurtling people across the States for a Very small fee. In Europe they have the Eurailpass which is a marvellous combination ticket' for trains, buses and even boats. If they can have a successful and profitable system shared by a dozen countries or more in Europe, I would like to know what it is that prevents Australians from devising similar inexpensive transportation systems. Personally, I am tired of hearing about the difficulties that prevent such a transportation system. I would like to see a plan which shows me how it could be done and that is the responsibility of members of government departments. That is their function; that is the job they should be doing. 
Domestic tourism is more than mere business; it is a national affair. The more our people travel, the more they become conscious of their own heritage- Australia. They receive the wellearned holiday break in a pleasant spot and can return to their places of employment relaxed and with regenerated dynamos to cope with the rat race in which we live. Domestic tourism is also a business. Our travel gap now stands at an awesome $200m or so a year. One day, if our overseas reserves are not in a very good state, this money draining out of the country could be sorely missed and could lead almost to a financial catastrophe. That is one of the reasons why I regard the Australian Tourist Commission Bill as an important and progressive one, but the Commission's modest Budget allocation is a drop in the bucket. The Government has no intention of discouraging Australians from travelling overseas but feels duty bound to attract overseas tourists to Australia and to increase the volume of tourism at home. The Australian Tourist Commission is excellently equipped to cope with both tasks. I have pleasure in commending the Bill to the House. 

 -Mr Speaker, I propose to raise tonight a subject which to the best of my knowledge has not been ventilated before in this Parliament. It is the question of the need for plant breeders rights. It is interesting to note that if you invent a machine for harvesting plants, that machine can be patented, but there is no legislation in Australia which allows the patenting of the plant itself. Australia has been slow to take up the question of plant breeders rights, but the same cannot be said for other countries of the world. 
Plant breeders' protection is now law in many countries, particularly in the Common Market countries. This legislation is in existence in France, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark and the United Kingdom. The legislation in these countries is very similar and is based on the 1961 Paris Convention which forms the basis of the Union for Protection of Plant Varieties. South Africa and the United States of America have plant patent Acts and New Zealand has a Bill drawn up ready for presentation to the Parliament. Austria, Poland, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and some other East European countries also have arrangements in operation for the protection of plant breeders. 
There are many reasons why plant breeders rights legislation is necessary, but I will quote only a few. I believe legislation is necessary so as to give an adequate reward for the skills, effort and capital employed in plant breeding. It is also necessary to ensure the continuing viability of the agricultural and horticultural industries. In addition, the necessary encouragement must be given which will allow Australian breeding in all agricultural and horticultural areas. 
The point which amazes me is that plant breeders have not been recognised in Australia before this when this recognition has already been granted in other countries. Surely the time is now ripe for recognition of this section of the horticultural and agricultural industry. If it is right for the inventor to be recognised in secondary industry, it is surely right to legislate for plant breeders' rights. 
Up to date, plant breeding in Australia has largely been carried out by government departments, universities and instrumentalities such as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, and then only on a small scale. Consequently, Australia has had to rely very heavily on imports from overseas for most of the necessary strains for crop immprovement. In 2 important areas- vegetables and fruit- the United States of America has been the main source of such new strains. But many of these new varieties are no longer available to Australia because of the lack of the necessary protective legislation, namely, legislation to protect the rights of plant breeders. 
New strains are vital for economic cropping, disease resistance, and so on. Australia is doing nothing to fill the vacuum caused by the lack of these new strains. On a conservative estimate, experts in this field maintain that even if the money were available to engage in plant breeding activities, it would take at least 10 years to fill the vacuum. Industry must have access to new strains of plants and urgent legislation is necessary to remedy this situation. In the long term, encouragement must be given to Australian plant breeders to develop strains suitable to our own local conditions which vary from State to State and within each State. 
Members of this Parliament may not know that tomato plants grown in Australia are mainly from the United States of America, and these plants are not completely suitable for Australian conditions. Under Australian conditions the plants grow much larger and trail a great deal. The fruit ripens over a long period, and in wet conditions the yield is extremely low. At present there is a tomato sauce scarcity in Australia and at the present time it is necessary to import the ingredients for tomato sauce. What a catastrophe for Australia's national dish. 
Australia is at least 15 years behind the times in its types and varieties of apples, pears, grapes, and so on being grown. The reason is that Australia has not the access to overseas varieties and strains of plants and trees. One of the reasons why Australia has difficulty in disposing of our apple crop overseas is that we cannot compete with the newer varieties which are grown in other countries. This should be of importance to honourable members from Tasmania. I see many of them present in the House tonight. The reason why we cannot obtain these overseas strains is that Australia has no reciprocal legislation to guarantee the rights of breeders. 
In regard to grapes, it is interesting to know that in overseas countries there are available tropical varieties which produce 2 crops a year. I notice that the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  is not present, but he has had his problems and I did not tell him I intended raising this subject. What an effect those varieties would have on our own grape and wine industries. If the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  were here I am certain he would be interested in this subject also. I ask the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  to use his best endeavours to have plant breeders' rights legislation introduced as soon as possible. To do this I think it is appropriate that an independent committee of inquiry should be set up to advise the Government on the most appropriate type of legislation for Australian conditions, the committee of inquiry to comprise government and industry personnel. I trust that the Minister at the table, the Minister for Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass),  will consider the points raised by me tonight. Possibly an inter-departmental committee has the matter in hand. If it has, it has been in its hands for a long time as the previous government did nothing on this issue. I grant that it was in office for only 23 years. I hope the present Government will do something and do it soon. 
Order! I have been fairly tolerant from the chair. The honourable member for Wannon has had his say. I think that the Minister is entitled to reply. 
I have in front of me a letter from  Mr George  Polites, who has told me on behalf of the Central Industrial Secretariat of the Australian Council of Employers Federations and the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia that in the view of the employers- I really do not know who the honourable member for Wannon is representing- the provisions of the Bin to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act that are designed to implement the report of the Sweeney inquiry into the problems associated with the decision in Moore v. Doyle appear to be generally satisfactory. In the Committee stage of the debate I will read his comments on each clause, which indicate that the employers agree with this legislation. Of course the employers agree with it. The unions agree with it and the employers agree with it. The only people who do not agree with it are the members of the Opposition, whose sole reason for rejecting it is that they do not want to see the Government succeed in solving industrial unrest because they have a vested interest in industrial unrest. They want to see unions go on strike because there remains to them no other way of settling matters constitutionally. The members of the Opposition do not want a constitutional solution to the problems because they feel that they gain some political capital out of having an inadequate law that can produce an industrial situation from which they can obtain some benefit. 
The Opposition seems to be suggesting that this Bill is going to create difficulties that are not there at the present time; that this Bill is going to create a legal position that does not exist at the present time. The BUI does not create any new legal position. What the Bill does is recognise the legal difficulties that already exist- the legal difficulties that were exposed in the Moore v. Doyle and Steuart v. Oliver cases. All the Bd does is recognise what the difficulties are and seek to amend them and to cure them. It is true that a working party was set up by the former Liberal-Country Party Government, but the working party admitted that the cure was beyond its comprehension and that it could not really settle down and find an answer. I do not say that as a criticism or a reflection upon thenlegal knowledge or industrial knowledge. It is the most complex legal question to have been thrown up in the industrial arena since 1904. There had never been a problem which bristled so much with legal difficulties as the Moore v. Doyle case produced because the Moore v. Doyle case showed that the law as it now stands, and as it will continue to stand until altered, until cured by the proposal that we are now putting forward, is that the majority of federal unions are illegally constituted, that their rules are invalid and that their property is in a state of doubtful ownership. Indeed, eminent Queen's Counsel have argued that in some cases the property of a federal organisation not only does not belong to the federal organisation but also does not belong to the State body either. It belongs to the original trustees of the organisation which was first registered and, since they are dead and gone, nobody other than perhaps, in trusteeship law, their relatives has any right to the property. 
The property of the Australian Workers Union in Sydney- Macdonell House, the Worker Building- the property in Pitt Street near the Hotel Morris is the property of the State union for the reason that it was in 1902 that The- with a capital 't'- Australian Workers Union was first registered in New South Wales and the first Secretary of the State union, called The Australian Workers Union, was  Mr Donald  Macdonell and the first  President  of The Australian Workers Union, the State union registered in New South Wales in 1902, was  Mr W.  G. Spence, who purported also to be the General Secretary and Federal  President  respectively of a federal unincorporated union called the- with a small 't'- Australian Workers Union. That was three years before the federal union secured registration under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
The properties that are owned in New South Wales by The Australian Workers Union are the properties of the State union. The Federal union put into its rules a few years ago a provision saying that these properties- the Worker Building, MacDonell House and the property in Pitt Street- are by virtue of the rules the property of the Federal union but this rule is in itself invalid because some of the people who were present at the rule making body were strangers and therefore were not entitled to be present. The decision to make that rule was an invalid decision. The rule is invalid because once a rule is challenged the person challenging the rule has a perfect right to go behind the certificate of the Registrar to see whether the registration made upon a statutory declaration sworn by the proper officer of the organisation concerned was a decision properly taken. 
None of the decisions of the Australian Workers Union since 1913 when the A WA amalgamated with it in Queensland are valid rule alterations. All of those decisions were taken at either convention level or at executive council level at which representatives of a State union then called 'The Australian Workers Union of Employees, Queensland ' were present. They had no right to be there. Moreover, it can be argued that no people from the New South Wales State union had any right to sit on a federal convention or a federal executive council meeting of the AWU. Therefore every rule that was made and every decision of a judicial character that was taken by the Federal executive council of the AWU or at the annual convention of the AWU are. invalid rules and decisions, whether they applied to rules made by them or whether they applied to any other decisions including the obtaining of awards or the purchase of property or whatever one might like to mention of like decision. 
This legislation therefore merely seeks to unravel the skein of legal complexities that have been thrown up by the Moore and Doyle case and to give validity to decisions in respect of rule making bodies that would otherwise remain forever in doubt and could always be challenged and be torn down. It is said that the unions have not had a chance to study the legislation. This is sheer nonsense. Of course they have. They have had a chance to study the legislation and they have indicated that they have approved of it. The honourable member says that he has a letter or has had communications from the AWU saying that it opposes the legislation. I do not believe that. I do not believe that the AWU has told the honourable gentleman that it opposes the legislation at all because the one union that has the most to gain by the settlement of the present legal situation is the AWU. If it is not settled that union will be fragmented and nothing that its Federal council or convention can do will ever stick; nothing that it can decide by way of Federal convention or executive council will have any validity because those bodies are improperly constituted and will remain improperly constituted until their present constitution and rules are validated by this legislation. 
-The original question was that this Bill be now read a second time. To this the honourable member for Wannon has moved an amendment that all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting other words. The immediate question is that the words proposed to be added stand part of the question. All of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no. I think the ayes have it. Is a division required? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="091131197410223_21_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410223_22_1.jpg"></graphic>

Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
-I was somewhat unhappy about the reference made by the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  when he accused this Government of playing party politics at the expense of ex-servicemen. 
-That was the impression I got and I say this more in sorrow than in anger. Despite the attitudes and protestations of members of the former Liberal-Country Party coalition government, when one looks at the record one finds that it did not really do much to help ex-servicemen. I also say this more in sorrow than in anger about the attitude of certain high officials of the Returned Services League. In my opinion these high national officials have shown a lack of interest in the members of the RSL sub-branches and to me, looking at it over a period of years- I do not want to go back too far into history- it appears that their reward for thenlack of interest has been a knighthood. I could call to mind some of the National Presidents of the Returned Services League who have been knighted. I can asure the House that this Government does not believe in knighthoods so the present occupants of those high positions in the Returned Services League assuredly will not get knighthoods from this Government. 
In New South Wales the  President  of the Returned Services League,  Mr Colin  Hines, wants to set up his own Army- set it up on fascist lines. He has stated, I think unreservedly, that it is for the defence of New South Wales. Of course, he did not consult the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  on this issue but he did consult that well-known democrat, the Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin. He has a claim to fame, does  Sir Robert  Askin. The most undemocratic statement he ever made was: 'Run the bastards over'. As honourable members know, this was at a time when the  President  of the United States of America was visiting Australia at the height of the Vietnam controversy and, as subsequent events have proved, the previous Liberal-Country Party government was wrong and the present Government was right on this issue. I am sorry to say this, but I believe the Returned Services League at its national level instead of playing politics should spend more time looking after the interests of its own members. I know this is the feeling of the New South Wales sub-branches because I attend them. In my own electorate of Banks a local subbranch included in its journal an article which, if I were the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  I would ask to have incorporated in Hansard. I have also a letter from the Panania-East 
Hills RSL sub-branch expressing concern at the political leanings of the Returned Services League in New South Wales. I shall not read it out, but it shows that members of the League are not happy with what their leadership is doing about repatriation benefits. 
The Bill before the House will give effect to the Government's proposals to bring up to date repatriation benefits provided to those for whom this country has a continuing responsibility. Those are not my words, but the words of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Bowen)  who represents the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Bishop).  In his second reading speech he made another statement which bears repeating. He said: 
Most repatriation pensions and allowances will be increased by this Bill. 
My time is limited and I do not intend to speak much longer because there is other important legislation which must be passed by this House. I congratulate the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation who is known amongst his Party colleagues as the 'little digger'. In fact, at one stage he was going to be presented with a digger's hat to wear into the Cabinet room. That shows the general feeling of members of his own Government about the good things he has done for ex-servicemen, particularly in this Repatriation Bill. Rather than recount what this Government has done for ex-servicemen by way of repatriation benefits and other conditions I ask leave to incorporate in Hansard a document showing major repatriation developments undertaken by this Government since 2 December 1972. 
I thank the House. I repeat that I congratulate the Government. I hope that this is not the end of the many good things which will be done for those who shed their blood for this country, who were maimed and are still suffering or who died and whose dependants are still alive. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Is the Treasurer aware of the interest shown by members of all Australian Public Service unions in the proposed new superannuation scheme? Is the Treasuer aware that the new superannuation scheme is of particular value to a great majority of low and middle range public servants? Can the Treasurer give any indication when a decision can be expected to be announced by the Government to implement the new superannuation scheme and the date of its implementation? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. Has the Minister noted the biased reporting, particularly in the headlines, which unjustly reflects on the performance of this Government? Can the Minister confirm that this biased reporting is really an abuse of what is loosely called freedom of the Press? Can the Minister confirm also that most national, country and suburban newspapers are controlled by 4 newspaper barons? In view of this situation, can the Minister hold out any hope for the production of a national newspaper in competition with these 4 press barons which could give an unbiased political view for the benefit of all Australians? 
-After listening to the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  speaking for, I think, some 23V4 minutes, of which about 1 minute was spent debating the Bills, I think it probably would be advisable for the sake of the Hansard record to show which Bills we are debating. Three Bills are now being debated in the House. The first is the Loans (Australian National Airlines Commission) Bill. The second is the Loans (Qantas Airways Limited) Bill. The third is the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill. 
It is important not only for the record but also for members of this House to know just what each of these 3 Bills is all about. The Loans (Australian National Airlines Commission) Bill seeks the approval of Parliament for Australia to borrow an amount not exceeding the equivalent of $US19m or $A14.5m to assist the Australian National Airlines Commission, which is TAA, in financing the purchase of its fifth and sixth Boeing 727-200 jet aircraft, spare parts and related equipment at an estimated cost of approximately $US24.5m or $A1 8.72m. I mention those figures in the Bill just to make sure that following speakers know what the Bills are about. 
The second Bill, the Loans (Qantas Airways Limited) Bill 1974, seeks the approval of Parliament for borrowings by Australia not exceeding the equivalent of $US91m or $A69.5m to assist Qantas Airways Limited in financing the purchase of its ninth, tenth and eleventh Boeing 747 aircraft, spare parts and related equipment at an estimated cost of approximately $US145m or $A87.5m. The third Bill now being debated in the House is the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill 1974. The main purpose of this Bill is to seek authority of the Treasurer to guarantee on behalf of the Australian Government loans raised by Ansett Transport Industries 
Ltd to finance the purchase of 2 Boeing 727-200 aircraft. Fundamentally, what this Government is doing in reality is a continuation of the past practices of previous governments and in keeping with the 2-airline agreement in relation to our own domestic airlines, as the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  have set out in their second reading speeches. 
I point out as regards what I shall call the TAA loan Bill that the legislation is to authorise the raising a loan of US$ 1 9m, which is 80 per cent of the purchase price of the airline's fifth and sixth Boeing 727-200 aircraft. The balance of the purchase price is being arranged by TAA from its own resources. TAA will raise the US$1 9m on the international capital market at an interest rate which would be more favourable than if the money were raised on the Australian market. As was pointed out by the Minister in his second reading speech, unfortunately the facilities of the Export-Import Bank of the United States of America could not be availed of on this occasion. The reason for this is that firm orders for the Boeing aircraft had been placed before the recent Government decision to revert to making use of overseas sources of finance for the purchase of capital equipment by Government transport authorities in Australia. 
I also point out that the funds as set out in this Bill are to be used for the Boeing 727-200s which I think are commonly known in the trade as the stretched Boeing, and this applies to purchases both by TAA and by Ansett of these Boeing aircraft. In other words, Ansett is getting two 727-200s and so is TAA. Thus they will still maintain their aircraft fleet at the same number, and the same numbers of various aircraft. I commend the action of TAA and of Ansett in acquiring these Boeings, for several reasons. I understand from authoritative sources that the 727-200s have a much lower noise level and are noticeably quieter than the Boeing 727- 100s which are currently being used by both domestic airlines. This Government is very conscious of noise levels, particularly of aircraft. It is conscious of noise levels everywhere. There are noise levels going around the country even at this stage but on various subjects. But this Government is very conscious of noise levels of aircraft, particularly as they affect the lives of people living close to airports. For this reason I commend both airlines for acquiring the 727-200s which have a noticeably lower noise level. 
There is another aspect of the acquisition of these Boeing 727-200s which in the running of a domestic or an international airline is of great value, that is, the carrying capacity of the aircraft. I understand that the Boeing 727-200s have an approximate increase of 30 per cent in passenger loading capacity compared to the 727- 100s. Consequently, there should be and there will be a saving in fuel requirements per passenger mile or passenger kilometre as is now used. This will be a saving not only to the operators; it will also be a cost saving for Australia itself. As members of this House recognise and realise not only Australia but the whole of the world is going through a fuel and energy crisis and if the aircraft that are being acquired by Qantas, TAA and Ansett have a higher carrying capacity it should be possible for fewer trips to be made or fewer schedules to be operated as between say, the major capital cities- Melbourne to Brisbane, Melbourne to Sydney, Sydney to Melbourne and so on. If those air schedules are reduced by the greater carrying capacity of these aircraft- I am informed that that is the situationit would mean that instead of having parallel schedules as we have now we could have more competitive schedules and more reasonable schedules between the major capital cities and fewer planes flying to carry the same number of people. This Will not only save costs but it will also help the operators, Ansett and TAA. Also the lower number of aircraft in the air at any one time should be a real benefit to the people who live adjacent to airports because of the reduction of noise nuisance. Also the cost saving by the acquisition of these 727-200 aircraft should have the effect of stabilising the rate of any future domestic airline fare increases. I would not think it will lead to a lowering in the existing air fares because with the costs going up I think that would be a wild dream at the moment. The utilisation of aircraft of this type, whether they are called stretched Boeing aircraft or air buses, could have the effect of stabilising the present rise in the cost of running aircraft. 
I think that Ansett Transport Industries has much to gain from the provisions of the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill. It is a big thing for any company, including Ansett, to have the benefit of a Government guaranteed loan on the international market. This is what Ansett Transport Industries will receive. In the past the same arrangements have been made for Ansett Transport Industries and I understand that the guaranteed loans of Ansett Transport Industries at present still exceed $35m. I think that gives the lie to various statements which are made in the House and outside the House that this Australian Labor Party Government is out to wreck Ansett 
Transport Industries and will have only one airline, a Government controlled one. When this Government guarantees loans for Ansett Transport Industries it gives the lie to those oftrepeated statements that this Government will have only a Government monopoly airline. 
I am very pleased to see that in the acquisition of these 727-200 aircraft offset arrangements have been made with Boeing on the basis of 10 per cent of the purchase price being utilised in such offset arrangements. It is very important to have firm arrangements in these days when we have so many problems. There are problems, and it is no use hiding them. We have problems in our aircraft industry in Australia. In reality, as far as I know, only one type of aircraft is currently being manufactured profitably in Australia, and that is the Nomad. I think it is most important that we make firm arrangements, and preferably make more generous offset arrangements, in the future when purchasing aircraft to make sure that as a country we get adequate offset arrangements. It is important to maintain the manufacturing side of the aircraft industry. I realise that on a volume basis and on a competitive basis it is extremely difficult for us to match overseas manufacturers' prices. 
I commend to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  the thought that in future arrangements for the acquisition of aircraft from overseas he should press for an offset arrangement equivalent to more than the 10 per cent provided for in the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill. 
I do not intend to take up the time of the House because I know that there is plenty of business which members will want to discuss, but I would like to comment upon the Loans (Qantas Airways Ltd) Bill. The Export-Import Bank of the United States of America is providing 30 per cent of the purchase price of the aircraft at a fixed interest rate of 7 per cent over a 10-year period. In current times that is a pretty generous arrangement. The Private Export Funding Corporation of the United States of America will provide 10 per cent of the purchase price. That will also be at a fixed rate but the higher rate of 9% per cent. Qantas will provide 20 per cent of the purchase price from its own resources. It is anticipated that the remaining 40 per cent of the finance required by Qantas will be raised on the international capital market in Europe at an interest rate which would be more favourable than if the money were raised in Australia at the present time. 
I agree with the principles as set out in the Bills and I commend both Ministers- the Treasurer who is handling 2 Bills and the Minister for Transport who is handling the other- for the manner in which they have put thought, effort and, I think, wisdom into the decision making which led up to the presentation of the 3 Bills before us today. I commend each of the 3 Bills to the House. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
The Social Contract Can Only be a Myth 
The Labor Government has been edging towards an incomes policy for some time. Campaigning in Queensland at the weekend, Prime Minister Whitlam described the Government's tax cuts and union acceptance of wage indexation as a 'compact'. Financial Times writer Samuel Brittan examines the British version of a similar compact and finds: 
Neither  Mr Harold  Wilson nor  Mr Denis  Healey is normally regarded as a sentimental romantic. The critics of these two political leaders, especially of the second, are more inclined to say that they overdo the hard-boiled realist act 
Yet the fact is that both these men are at least partially taken in by a myth- that of the 'social contract '. 
The expression is of course a misuse of the title of an eighteenth century philosophical treatise by Jean- Jacques Rousseau on the grounds of political obligation; and I will not digress on what Rousseau 'really meant'- no two commentators agee. 
When the term was brought back into circulation earlier this year, I regarded it as a diplomatic fig-leaf to cover up the fact that the Labor Party would not dare force another statutory incomes policy down the throats of the unions. 
But incredible though it may seem, the present Government is actually being influenced by this non-existent contractnot as much as it pretends, but enough to make one worried. 
It is, of course, too much to expect politicians to learn from history. But it is difficult even to summon up an interest in 'voluntary restraint' in view of the record. 

 Mr Butler relied on this when he over-stimulated the economy in 1955, to his own lasting damage.  Mr Maudling's  expansionary Budget of 1963 was deliberately framed to persuade the TUC to accept a voluntary incomes policy- and the result was the famous 1964 payments deficit and  Mr Heath's  election as Conservative leader. 
In 1964  Mr George  Brown relied on a statement of intent by the two sides of industry, which did not prevent a subsequent wage explosion and the burial of the national plan in less than two years. 
The present social contract is not even a 'solemn and binding' declaration (popularly known as  'Mr Solomon  Binding'). It belongs to that even feebler category known as 'best endeavours'. 
Unfortunately, too much criticism of the contract stops short at the most obvious points. 
For example, it is often stated that some union leaders are more interested in 'busting the system' than in strictly industrial objectives. So they are; and one should not be deterred by cries of 'reds under beds ' from emphasising the fact. 
It also said that the TUC guideline, that wage increases should not in general do more than keep up with the cost of living, is impossible to fulfil. 
For not only is there an indefinite number of exceptions to accommodate; but the existing standard of living cannot be guaranteed when resources have to be shifted to exports and import-saving at a time of world recession. 
But what is less frequently realised is that even if the union leaders were entirely non-political and interested only in pay and conditions, and even if the guidelines were drawn up by the Royal Economic Society the 'contract' would still be a delusion. 
The first and most elementary point is that if the demand for labour exceeds the supply no incomes policy on earthnot even the death penalty as ordained by Roman emperors, let alone the guidance of Len Murray- will stop not merely inflation but accelerating inflation. 
This last point about acceleration has only recently begun to be appreciated. For if it is official policy to maintain such excess demand in the name of 'full employment', then in the face of rising prices money wages must climb faster and faster if they are to buy what was originally intended; and a non-indexed progressive tax system makes the acceleration problem all the worse. 
Indeed, excess demand would lead to ever-accelerating inflation, even if the unions themselves were to vanish from the face of the earth. There are, of course, endless problems in defining the point at which the demand for labour exceeds the supply. 
The difficulty is that the situation varies from skill to skill and from area to area. 
Even at the height of a boom, there will be workers difficult to place because of personal characteristics or regional imbalances, while even in a slump some kinds of labour will still be in short supply. The point of balance is simply that at which the overall movement of money wages is steady. 
Nobody can be sure in advance what this point of balance is. 
It is unfortunate that it has been named the 'natural' rate of unemployment, as it is anything but natural and influenced by all kinds of policies and institutions. 
Keynes, who together with Disraeli has been proclaimed by  Mr Peter  Walker as the founder of modern Toryism, himself put the rate at 800,000, which was 6-7 per cent of the prewar and wartime labour force, or well over a million, on today's numbers and definitions. 
But we do know that the more wages are prevented from moving in accordance with market forces the higher in unemployment terms the point of balance will be; and that many well-intentioned demands in TUC 'social contract' pronouncements, such as priority for the lower paid, or 'equal pay for the sexes' in the face of unequal employer or customer perferences, will push up the sustainable unemployment rate. 
The direct effect of trade unions is not, as is popularly believed, to cause a continuing inflation. 
It is- like bad housing policies, restrictive practices, or other obstacles to mobility- to increase the rate of unemployment. 
If a sufficient number of trade unionists make increased use of their monopoly power, this will price their members out of jobs. 
As these displaced workers are likely to be reluctant to take other work on inferior terms- and there may be union or other institutional obstacles in their doing so- the net result is an increase in the unemployment total. 
Inflation or accelerating inflation, comes into the picture when governments go in for 'reflationary' fiscal or credit policies, of the kind which  Mr Healey  is planning for next week, in an attempt which can at best be only temporary, to mop up this unemployment by pushing more spending money into the economy. 
Some 'monetarist' economists, while admitting that this is a theoretical possibility, deny that union power has been used in such a way, and claim that British inflation and stop-go episodes can be explained by other means. 
The strong point of their thesis is the world-wide nature of the current inflation. The weak point is the extent to which Britain's difficulties are worse than those of other countries. 
Moreover, even if union power has not been used in the past to push up the sustainable unemployment rate, and therefore to tempt governments into inflationary policies, there is nothing to prevent this from happening now; and this is what many casual observers, without refined statistical techniques, believe is happening before their eyes. 
Moreover, we are starting from a 17-20 per cent rate of inflation, to which the economic and social system has not adjusted, and which most people believe to be intolerable. 
To move from here to a lower rate involves not a deflation, as the sillier anti-monetarists allege, but a slower growth of spending. 
How far this slowdown is reflected in smaller rises in money incomes and prices, and how far in increased unemployment, will depend on the extent to which trade unions resist the forces of the labour market and price their members out of jobs. 
This was a point which, as I understood it, Professor Milton Friedman conceded on his recent visit. 
If the 'social contract* were merely a pompous way of describing the intention and ability of union leaders to make less use of their monopoly powers, it would therefore be worth having, if it were obtainable at not too extortionate a price. But is it so obtainable? 
The question is best considered from the point of view of a union leader- not necessarily the man at central headquarters but the one who exercises shop-floor power. 
The gains from restraint in use of monopoly power are what economists call 'public goods '. 
They are things, such as fuller employment or the avoidance of runaway inflation, the benefits of which are widely diffused among the whole population. The costs on the other hand are incurred by the group which exercises restraint. 
It will therefore usually be in the interest of a particular union group that other trade unionists should show restraint while its own members move ahead. 
Union self-interest is thus likely to lead to the speedy crumbling of voluntary restraint. We are left then with the hope that agreement on a 'socially just' pattern of relativities will replace self-interest in wage bargaining. 
There is neither the space at the end of this article, nor surely the need, to demonstrate that 'there ain't no agreement' on what such a socially just pattern would look like, and that some quasi-moral justification can be found for almost any pay claim. 
Nor is it any answer to point to what Cripps achieved for a very short period in 1948 in what was still virtually a wartime atmosphere (which we do not have at the moment despite the burning desire of so many people to bring it back). 
In return for the thinnest of hopes, based on the flimsiest of logical foundation, governments of different political persuasions have imposed a price control stranglehold on British business and have been afraid to tax either corporations or individuals at realistic rates and have gone in for policies of levelling downwards which must soon begin to show themselves in the immigration rates. 
The main result to date has been a stepping up of union demands in the running of national and corporate affairsthe actuality and fear of which has already brought the growth of productivity to a near standstill, to the ultimate detriment of real wages. 
But then historians have always known that the main effect of paying Danegeld is that the Danes come back and ask for more. 
Every person with a bit of common sense and who is capable of thinking about the position knows that the November mini-Budget was inconsistent because it did not reduce government expenditure proportionately to the rate at which it took other action in the private sector. We all know that indirect taxes should have been reduced to reduce inflation. We all know that some assistance should have been given if we were to promote the exploration and development of energy resources, particularly fuel resources. But none of these things has been done. Therefore, the mini-Budget will be disastrous for everyone. 
Let me come back to areas in which reductions in Government expenditure can take place. Of course, if the honourable member for Casey wants to be a little more informed on the subject matter before he rises to speak on it on the next occasion, he should read an article written by Yvonne Preston in the 'National Times' newspaper of 18-23 November 1974. That newspaper is an admirer of the Government. That newspaper gives a plan not for the reduction of Government expenditure by about $900m but more. It deals with the unnecessary growth of Government departments such as the Department of the Media, and all sorts of plans are set out. Again, I ask to have this newspaper article incorporated in Hansard because it will give some guidance to the Government in an attempt to reduce Government expenditure and time precludes me from dealing with this in detail. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows)- 

<graphic href="092131197411190_21_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="092131197411190_22_1.jpg"></graphic>

Honourable members will also notice that an increase of $400,000 is provided for Queensland in this BUI. The House will be aware of the intransigence on the part of the Queensland Government in respect of the Australian Government's attempts to achieve a collaborative approach to Aboriginal affairs throughout Australia. A large measure of co-operation has been achieved with all other States. Not only have the Queensland Premier and the Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs refused to cooperate, they have refused even to participate in discussions on matters of mutual concern to the Queensland and Australian Governments in the Aboriginal affairs field. In the light of this attitude, the Australian Government has decided to make funds available under this legislation to the Queensland Government only for programs for which an unavoidable commitment has been entered into. 
The Australian Government will ensure that additional programs in Queensland will be carried out through local Aboriginal community organisations, the Australian Department of Aboriginal Affairs and other instrumentalities. We will ensure that the Aboriginals and Islanders of Queensland are not disadvantaged by this decision and we believe that, because the Australian Government's approach is to involve Aboriginals to the maximum extent possible in matters affecting them, this decision will ensure greater benefit in the long term to the Aboriginals and Islanders of Queensland. 
Payments to the States are one pan of the Australian Government's total effort in respect of Aboriginal affairs. This financial year a total of $163.6 18m has been allocated for direct Australian Government expenditure on Aboriginal Affairs. This represents an increase of 66 per cent over the $98.69m actually spent on Aboriginal affairs during the financial year 1973-74. Of this year's funds, $ 126.4m will be spent through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, either directly in the Northern Territory and elsewhere, or through grants to the States. 
The balance will be expanded by other departments such as the Department of Education for study grants and secondary grants and special programs in the Northern Territory, by the Department of Health in the Northern Territory, and the Department of Labor and Immigration under its employment training scheme. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard another table, Table 3, showing how the $163.6 18m being spent this year by the Australian Government is to be allocated. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="092131197411190_23_2.jpg"></graphic>

In summary, the policies of the Australian Government in respect of Aboriginal people might be described as seeking: to encourage and strengthen the capacity of Aboriginals to manage their own affairs and to increase their economic independence; to enable Aboriginals to have a real freedom of choice about their life style and the extent to which, particularly in the more remote communities, they maintain their traditional customs and culture- a freedom which can be exercised to the extent that communities have local authority, in particular through land ownership; to make equality a reality for Aboriginal Australians by working to overcome those handicaps which generally face them in fields such as housing, health, education, employment and civil liberties; in doing this, to help Aboriginals themselves to provide services designed to overcome handicapsfor instance through Aboriginal housing societies, medical services and legal services; and to act in the closest consultation with Aboriginal communities and individuals at both the national and the local levels. 
The pattern of Australian Government expenditure is changing to reflect these goals. Funds provided for direct grants to Aboriginal communities have been substantially increased, reflecting the Government's determination to deal direct with Aboriginal groups, and enable them to set their own priorities and manage their own affairs. Many of the programs now being funded by direct grant to Aboriginal communities and organisations and to local government bodies would formerly have been included in grants to the States, and this should be borne in mind when comparing the annual increase in funds provided to the States. 
The Australian Government never intended the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to assume wide functional responsibilities for Aboriginal affairs. It has always regarded the provision of services such as health, housing, education, employment, legal aid and others to Aboriginals as being the responsibility of functional departments and authorities. The role of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is to stimulate and support the extension or the accommodation of existing services to Aboriginals, and to ensure that special services and programs are provided for Aboriginal people where necessary. Payments to the States should be seen in this context. It is not the Australian Government's intention to assume permanent responsibility for the activities of State departments in fields such as health and education in respect of Aboriginal people. Rather, our intention is to help responsible departments make up the backlog caused by past neglect or indifference. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 
-In regard to the point of order I suggest that the honourable member keep to the substantive question involved in his motion. 
I was under no impression that his resignation from the Senate was required. I was under the impression that under the Constitution his seat had been vacated. 
This is the Government which, knowing that the arrangement had been made, had allowed  Senator Gair,  its pawn, to vote in the Senate as a senator knowing that he had accepted a post but thinking quite correctly at that time that this did not yet imply his resignation from the Senate. This was a lie put across the country by the Prime Minister and  Senator Murphy.  It is a direct lie. There is no doubt about it whatsoever. I put that situation to the House and ask it to consider the question of the veracity of a government which, in a matter of major policy of this character, can behave in such a manner. 
I then come to the statement which the Prime Minister made in the House on 19 September of this year in answer to a question by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  I quote exactly the words that the Prime Minister used in replying to that question: 
The communist parties- there are about 3 in Australia at the moment- have never been so politically insignificant and we believe that the trade union movement has never been in better hands. 

 Mr Anthony's question related to communist influence in trade unions. There is no question that the Prime Minister knew of that influence. When he spoke as he did, he was lying to the House. It is inconceivable that he did not know that it was a lie. It is inconceivable that this man did not know that he was lying to the House when he said that. Subsequently, I and the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  read into Hansard lists of names of open communists in key positions in key unions. The unions included the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union of Australia and the maritime unions. The Prime Minister has made no withdrawal of his statement. 
Whether the communists are in control of the unions is a matter of grave political consequence. The Prime Minister has said something in the House which is false. I believe he knew that it was false when he said it. There is every reason to believe that he was lying. But even if he was not lying, why has he made no retraction of that statement when the evidence to the contrary is here now in Hansard? We have this question of the Prime Minister misleading the House, of saying something which was untrue. He must have known it was untrue when he said it. Still, when the evidence to the contrary comes out, there is no retraction from him. The false statement is let lie in this House. I think that this is evidence of the kind of Prime Minister that we have and the kind of morality which informs the policies of the present Government. 
I now come to something that happened in this House only a few days ago. On 13 November 1974 I asked this question in regard to tariff slashing: 
Does the Prime Minister recall on 24 September the taped 'AM' broadcast ... in which he supported the concept that tariff slashing was to be commended even though it meant a certain amount of unemployment and characterised as 'nervous Nellies' those people who were frightened of a certain amount of unemployment? 
The Prime Minister said that 'I did not accurately represent anything that he had said'. He denied his own statement. Apparently, he believed that that denial could stand because there was no evidence to the contrary. But there is evidence to the contrary. There is a tape recording of the Prime Minister's voice which shows what he himself said. That tape recording is in the library and it stands to convict the Prime Minister of having said something in the Parliament which is false. It may be that in this case the Prime Minister did not he. It may be just that he misremembered what he had said. It may be that there was some kind of Freudian slip. Because of his guilt in this major matter- tariffs and unemployment are major matters- through some kind of Freudian process it may have been repressed in his memory. If that is so, why has he not yet come clean and made amends to this House by means of a proper apology? The fact that he has said nothing almost seems to argue his guilt in this instance. 
The next case I cite involves something which is clearly on the record. It involves an attempt to deceive not just this House but the whole of the Australian electorate. This Government is illegitimate. It has been conceived in sin because it has been elected on a completely false pretence. This illegitimate Government cajoled the electorate. Every honourable member opposite knows that he sits in government by fraud. It is a fraudulent Government. Honourable members opposite cajoled the electorate on the 3 promises that they made. They stated that they were going to cure inflation and get interest rates down and that there would be no unemployment. These statements were made by the then Prime Minister having access to all the confidential records and knowing that when he said these things to the electorate they were untrue. It was not just a mistake. If the Prime Minister had been a person who did not have access to the records then perhaps it could be said that it was a mistake. But for a man with access to all the confidential records of the Government and knowing the economic situation from the inside to have said these things which were so patently untrue could scarcely have been a mistake. The Government that occupies the Treasury benches is in power because of a fraud put over the Australian people. 
Let me leave the so-called 'whoppers' that relate to important issues and let me turn to a little bit of meanness on the part of the Prime Minister. When he was trying to get the referendum proposals through, certain professors wrote a letter which derided the Government's case. In Perth the Prime Minister said- his remarks were recorded verbatim by Miss Sutherland of the Australian Broadcasting Commission- that the professors were 'second or third raters'. He said this of the leading economists in Australia. They were also the advisers which the Government had chosen for some of its own policies. I do not have time to read out all the names but I say that this was a mean little slur, an academic slur, by the Prime Minister. He must have known that what he said was untrue. Just before the referendum he lied to the people for the purpose of getting the referendum through. He failed. 
As I have said, these instances are only a few small pages from the catalogue of mendacity. I conclude by referring to a remark made in 1967 by the present Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  During the debate of 31 October 1967, to which I referred at the outset, he said that even if the motion on ministerial veracity were not carried, the Government should resign.  His  words are recorded in Hansard and I quote them. He said: 'It is not the vote of the House that matters, it is the fact of lying '. A government that is based on lies, that owes its existence to lies and that has lied in this House is not worthy, and the Minister knows it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

-The purpose of the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1974 is to give legislative effect to the taxation proposals which were announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his Budget Speech. This Bill seeks to implement 16 separate amendments to the existing law. I will cover in this speech just a few of those amendments. 
A special rebate of tax has been introduced to provide relief for low income families. The rebate will provide a benefit to taxpayers in the lower income ranges whose tax saving, because of the lower rates of tax that apply there, resulting from the allowance of the dependants' deductions is less than 40 per cent of the amount of the deductions. In some cases the new tax rebate will extinguish the tax which otherwise would be payable. But where that does not occur the tax saving to those low income families will be a considerable amount. The concessional deductions in regard to the maintenance of dependants have been widened also to allow a deduction to be claimed for dependants who are residing overseas. That should be of particular benefit to new arrivals in this country who are still maintaining dependants in their country of origin. 
One of the major purposes of this Bill is to allow a deduction for interest repayments in respect of home loans. The tax benefit arising from that deduction will reduce the effective rate of interest payable on home loans. It is a fact that the rates of interest payable at present on housing loans present a real burden to a large section of the community. This new deduction will be welcomed by those people who are struggling to maintain their present loan repayments. The deduction for interest will be allowable in full for those taxpayers who have an actual income of $4,000 per annum or less. Where the actual income is above $4,000 per annum the deduction will be reduced by 1 per cent for each $ 100 of the excess. That will mean that 80 per cent of the interest will be deductible at an actual income level of $6,000 per annum and that one-half of the interest will be deductible at an actual income level of $9,000 per annum. A deduction will not be allowable where the actual income level is $14,000 per annum or more. I point out, however, that in ascertaining the deduction the combined actual income of a man and his wife will be taken into account. It will thus be seen that the purpose of this deduction for interest on home loans is to provide a greater measure of assistance for those people on lower incomes whose need is the greatest- I emphasise the words 'whose need is the greatest'. It follows the needs concept which the present Government has applied in so much of its legislation. 
Also on the needs basis but in reverse, the law is now to be tightened up to ensure that certain 'fringe benefits' will be properly subject to income tax. That applies particularly to the 'fringe benefit' which accrues from the private use of a motor vehicle supplied by an employer. The amount now to be included in the assessable income of a person who is supplied with such a motor vehicle will be 12 per cent of the first $6,000 of the cost of the vehicle and 24 per cent of the balance of the cost in excess of $6,000. This provision is similar to that which applied for some time in Canada and which, I might add, has applied pretty effectively. It will reduce some of the difficulties which have applied in the interpretation of the existing law. 
Under this Bill it will no longer be possible to claim a deduction for fees paid for membership of sporting or social clubs, nor will it be possible to claim a deduction for expenditure relating to leisure facilities such as boats, ski lodges, holiday cottages and so on. I do not think any tears will be shed by the great majority of people over the disallowance of these tax lurks, which have only applied to the benefit of that section of the community which can afford to pay its rightful share of the cost of running the country. The present Government will be remembered for the manner in which it has attempted to level out the taxation liability of all sections of the community. During the 2 years in which it has been in office the present Government has done more to prevent tax lurks and to minimise tax avoidance schemes than the previous Liberal-Country Party government did in the whole of its 23 years of office. Of course, that is understandable as the previous Liberal-Country Party government had no intention of hurting its powerful and wealthy friends. In contrast, the present Government can properly be called the little people's government. 
The Treasurer recently made a public statement in which he said that he wished to be remembered for the things that he had done. He will certainly be remembered by the credit union movement in Australia for the action which is now being taken in this Bill to exempt credit unions from income tax on interest derived from loans to their members. This exemption will apply to assessments of credit unions in respect of the income derived during the year of income which commenced on 1 July 1973 and in subsequent income years. The Treasurer announced in March of this year that he intended to take this action. The Bill now before this House implements that promise. The liability to tax of credit unions has been a vexed question for many years. Credit unions have taken all legal steps possible to have the matter determined. To my knowledge 3 test cases have been taken to the Board of Review and two to the High Court of Australia. In view of the legal decisions in all those cases which went against the credit unions, it has been necessary finally to determine the issue by legislation, and that the Government is now doing. On behalf of the credit union movement I would like to convey to the Treasurer the thanks of all credit union members and their appreciation for his taking of this worthwhile step, which will enable credit unions to apply any surplus arising from dealings with their own members for the benefit of their own members. The previous Liberal-Country Party government would not grant this concession. The present Australian Labor Party Government has now put into legislation the commitment which it made prior to the 1972 election. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-That is not a point of order; it is a matter for debate. 
Australia. But I also assert positively that nowhere in the Prime Minister's itinerary is there a need at this time for such a trip. 
Let us put this whole trip into perspective. The Australian economy has never been in such tatters since the depression. The whole of the nation is uncertain. Industry, employers, and employees are uncertain as to where this nation is heading. We have an inflation rate which is the highest ever in our history. It goes up every day but 20 per cent was the last reputable figure I saw. It is probably higher. We have the highest unemployment rate since the depression, and this is under a Labor Government. So I say that the nation is unhappy. This trip of the Prime Minister's ought to be looked at against that background. The itinerary shows clearly, as I have said, that there is nothing in the trip of national or international significance. 
For the trip the Prime Minister will take a Qantas Boeing 707 for 39 days, for 17 days of which the plane will not be used at all but will be standing idle on the tarmac. For 18 days it will be used for fewer than 3 hours per day. The charter rate for a Boeing 707 is about $2,000 per hour in the air. The rate for idle or standing time when the plane is idle in the tarmac is normally $4,000 a day. But on this occasion there has been some strong-arming of Qantas and the plane is to be let to the Prime Minister at the rate of $2,000 a day for its idle days. The total cost of the hire of this plane to the Australian taxpayer- this is for the plane only and not for hotels and everything else that goes with the trip of this magnitude- is $280,000. That is the total charter cost of the plane only. The trip will require the placement of 7 technical crews to fly the plane around the world. They are the cockpit crews of 3 people each, and there have to be changes in London, Amsterdam, Belgrade, Rawalpindi and Kuala Lumpur. The trip also requires 2 cabin crews of 12 people for the flight and there are to be cabin crew changes of 12 people at London, Rome, Rawalpindi and Kuala Lumpur. But not only that, Qantas is being forced to send overseas and station around the world 6 of its executive officers to make sure that everything runs smoothly with the plane. 
The minimum earnings a day of a Boeing 707 are $20,000. The Prime Minister is taking the trip at the peak Christmas period, the busiest time of the year for Qantas. The normal earnings of the plane during this period- at 39 times $20,000-would be $780,000. The actual charter cost, as I have said, of $280,000 is dear enough, but the real cost of the Prime Minister's trip is being hidden because Qantas is being forced to subsidise this trip by half a million dollars which the taxpayer will not know about. It is a loss of revenue to Qantas. 
This morning 1 raised the question of the 8 day period in London. During that time the Prime Minister will inject a 1 hour return trip to Dublin. The Prime Minister is staying in Dublin for 5 hours 50 minutes. That is the stopover time in Dublin. 
The Prime Minister said during question time that the reason he was taking the Qantas plane related to security. I know that the Defence Services are run down. That is apparent. But I did not know that they were so badly run down that a Qantas aircraft can more easily be made secure than a BAC1 1 1 aircraft, which is a Royal Australian Air Force plane. This is an admission in itself of the Prime Minister's position. A statement of that nature from him shows on what shallow ground he stands. He says that he cannot take a BAC1 1 1 aircraft for reasons of security. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  took a BAC111 around the world. It is a most competent plane. I would not mind journeying around the world in a BAC1 1 1 at the expense of the taxpayers. I could think of nothing better over the Christmas period. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  took a BAC111 to Peking. A BAClll has been to Washington, Sweden and London. BAC Ill's have travelled around the world. The Prime Minister said that a BAC1 1 1 could not take all the necessary- I think he used the word 'equipment'. More unkindly, I would use the word 'baggage'. I think there is a fair bit of baggage on this trip that is unnecessary, which would stay in Australia or which could be taken on commercial nights to the places of most importance on this visit. The cost of a BACH 1 would be $100,000. 1 compare that with the total cost of this trip and the loss of revenue to Qantas which reveals a real cost of $780,000 to the taxpayer. 
Let me come to the itinerary. The Prime Minister departs Australia on 14 December. He travels to Colombo and is there for 16'/i hours. He stops at Bahrein for 40 minutes for refuelling purposes. The Prime Minister travels then to Brussels where he stays 88 hours. He next flies to London. The stay there is for 96 hours and is interrupted to fly to Dublin to have drinks with Vince. That takes 5 hours 50 minutes and is followed by a further 86 hours stay in London. The Prime Minister travels then to Catania. This is the first of the so-called weekend breaks which the Prime Minister is taking. He then goes on to Malta and Androvida. He arrives in Androvida on a Tuesday, but this is part of the weekend break, as the Prime Minister described it at question time today. He stays there for 25 hours 10 minutes. He goes then to Athens where he stays for 26 hours 50 minutes.  His  next stop is Heraklion- that is the Greek Islands- where he is for a weekend. From there, the Prime Minister flies to Amsterdam. He flies on then to Paris. I point out that he has not yet received an invitation to visit Paris. The Prime Minister then goes on to Rome, Belgrade, Dubrovnik, as a holiday of course, Moscow, Leningrad, Cologne, Rawalpindi, Dacca, Kuala Lumpur and home. 
Nowhere in that itinerary is there any justification for the Prime Minister to leave Australia at this time. Nowhere in that trip is there any justification for the Prime Minister to use the taxpayer's funds to travel on the most expensive trip ever undertaken by an Australian Prime Minister. There has been no trip by any previous Australian Prime Minister to go anywhere near the exorbitant and extravagant cost of this junket. I use the word 'junket' advisedly. The trip is no more than a junket for the Prime Minister and a few of his chosen friends. Or is it a swan? Honourable members may choose to call it what they will; it is either. There is no justification for the Prime Minister leaving Australia on such an extravagant trip as this time in the nation's history when there is so much uncertainty in the community. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
CELEBRITIES &amp; ORGANISATIONS PLEDGING THEIR SUPPORT 
June  Bronhill 
John  Dankworth 
Jeorg Demus 
Alirio  Diaz 
Leonard  Dommet 
Johnny Farnham 
Paul Fidian 
Arthur Fiedler 
Colleen Hewitt 
Hans Hotter 
Barry Humphries 
Kamah 
Mischa  Kogan 
Alan  Kogosowski 
Henry  Kripps 
Cleo Laine 
John  Lanchberry 
Alicia De  Laroche 
Bobby Limb 
Rod  McKuen 
Peter Nero 
Birgit  Nilson 
Willem  Van  Otterloo 
Geoffrey Parsons 
Linda Phillips 
Dame Peggy Van  Praagh 
Kenneth Rowell 
John Sinclair 
Stanislaw  Skrowaczewsk 
Donald Smith 
Felix  Werder 
Wanda  Wilkomirska 
The Australian Ballet Co. 
Ballet Victoria 
The Cleveland Orchestra 
Kolobok  Dance Co. 
The Victorian Opera Co. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has asked both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  questions about this subject. I believe that the House can proceed to discuss this matter, perhaps at a later date, with a view to preserving this building in the interests of the people of Melbourne. The issue has been greatly clouded by statements which have been ill-considered and which have later been proved by the reports to which I have referred to be quite incorrect. I suggest that the House could well adopt the slogan of the Save the Regent Theatre Campaign which is 'Keep the Regent Alive in '75 '. 
-It now being 12 noon and 2 hours after the time of meeting of the House, the debate on the motion is interrupted. 
Motion (by  Mr Bryant)  agreed to: 
That the time for discussion of notice No. 2 General Business be extended until 12.43 p.m. 
Unless the Minister and this Government can come to grips with these problems in the A.C.T. and concentrate on policies for youth then the chances are that they will fail everywhere in Australia. The consequences of that are of national significance. I have suggested in the past some of the things the Minister should do. Let me quote the recommendations of the report by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, completed in 1972: 
Governmental and non-governmental policies should be directed at involving youth in national development. Opportunities should be made available for the effective participation of young people in institutions at the highest levels of decision making, policy formation and administration, particularly in those institutions that bear most heavily on youth. Attention should also be given to programs initiated and operated by young people themselves. 
This is the kind of recommendation that Minister should be considering. I have called for the Minister to appoint an advisory panel of youth workers and young people in Canberra with representatives of hostels to advise him regularly on the needs of single people in Canberra. I have also called for an immediate inquiry into the running of Australian Capital Territory hostels. The consequence of the disastrous housing policy of this Minister is that no rental accommodation is available, Government housing lists are growing longer- unless you have friends in high placesand so many will be forced to stay in hostels. Over the past 12 months tariffs in hostels have increased by 55 per cent. I have asked the Minister to consider more closely the area of cooperative housing because this is a form of housing that I believe is suitable for young single people in Canberra. 
I am hopeful that in response to this motion this morning, the Minister will take the opportunity of informing the House of his policies for youth in Canberra. He may be able to demonstrate today that he does have an understanding. If he does, it will be necessary then to start acting, instead of talking, to achieve the kind of progress that is sorely needed. I was delighted to see in yesterday's 'Canberra Times' details of a youth involvement program. I welcome this program, but it will last for only 3 weeks. What is needed is a continuing program. I noted with interest also reports today that a study on suicide is to be instituted in Australia by the National Health and Medical Research Council and will commence in Canberra. I draw the attention of the Minister to my question on notice on this topic, which has been on the notice paper for some time. The young people of Canberra are looking for a lead from this Government. So far they have not received it. I hope that in raising this matter this morning, I will stir some activity from the Minister and the Government in an area in which, as I mentioned a moment ago, it is most sorely needed. 
-I am sure that the honourable member for Barker will not transgress the Standing Orders. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
I cannot support this Bill in its present form. I will be supporting the amendment which has been moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  For the purpose of the record, I shall read the amendment which I shall be supporting. It reads as follows: 
That ail words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: "whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the Bill should give expression to the following principles- 
that the family is the basic and stable unit of the Australian society; 
that marriage should be buttressed; 
that marriage should be permanent and secure; 
that full and proper recognition be given to the status and rights of a woman as wife and mother; 
that there should be full and proper protection of the wife and children in the event of the dissolution of a marriage; 
that there is need for children to be reared and cared for by a present parent; and 
that marriage should be dissolved only when a Court is satisfied on objective grounds that the marriage has irretrievably broken down or that the parties have lived separately and apart for not less two years '. 
I will be supporting the amendment not in the hope that its carriage will bring about the defeat of the Bill as such but in the hope that the Bill will still be given a second reading and that worthwhile and objective amendments will then be made to it in the Committee stage of the debate. The most objectionable parts of the Bill in its present form are the dissolution and maintenance provisions, particularly those which relate to the maintenance of the children of a marriage. In my view, if the Bill becomes law in its present form marriage will become an essentially impermanent relationship. Again in my view, this Bill runs completely contrary to the concept of marriage as understood by Australian society. 
Divorce proceedings should be taken as a last resort after a marriage has broken down completely despite the efforts of the parties to it to give it every chance to succeed. Clause 48 of the Family Law Bill does not provide for that. It offers an easy way out whenever there is any disagreement. The social and economic implications for Australia that will follow from the inevitable increase in the divorce rate if this Bill is enacted in its present form are completely unknown, but what is known is that no serious study has ever been made, either by the present Government or by the previous McMahon, Gorton or Holt governments, of the causes of divorce in Australia or the effects of divorce on the persons and children involved. We should be doing more to pinpoint the causes of divorce and then taking whatever positive steps we can to eliminate those causes, thereby leading to the stability of marriage. If the studies of marriage and divorce in other countries with easy divorce law are indicative of the problems we will face in our society when marriage is easy to enter into and leave, the law will be promoting and rewarding irresponsible marriages. Children need a stable and secure family environment. Clause 48 of this Bill deprives the family of security and permanence because it provides that one party to a marriage can, for whatever reason he or she thinks fit, terminate the marriage on 12 months notice. 
I think it is worth pointing out that this Bill will not abolish adultery, cruelty or drunkenness in a marriage, but the right to defend a divorce suit on those or any other grounds will be abolished. This Bill does nothing to build up marriage and family life. I am afraid that the unhappiness and misery which are associated with divorce at present will remain. One of the main arguments put forward by supporters of this Bill is that it will bring dignity to divorce and will prevent the washing of dirty linen in public. They say that that will be achieved by the elimination of fault as a ground for divorce and the substitution of one ground only, namely, that the parties have lived separately and apart for no less than 12 months. 
In the legislation which is the law of the land at the moment the fault grounds are usually adultery, cruelty or habitual drunkenness. The Family Law Bill certainly will eliminate fault or the conduct of parties as a ground for divorce but it will not eliminate an open examination of the conduct of the parties in what are the most heartrending results of a divorce- the custody of the children of the marriage and access to them by either partner. Clause 64 ( 1 ) of the Bill requires that, in regard to custody or guardianship of or access to a child of a marriage, the court shall regard the welfare of the child as the paramount consideration. Surely the conduct of the parties during the marriage would have to be taken into account in determining that- and rightly so. I am afraid that the dirty linen will still be washed and that the conduct of the parties will still be bared. 
Another objectionable feature of the Bill is the clauses which relate to maintenance. Clause 72 purports to make equal in their claims against each other in relation to maintenance 2 personsa husband and his wife- who are simply not equal. To say that husbands and wives, as a general proposition, have the same litigious capabilities is arrant nonsense. I have said that for these reasons: By and large, the husband controls the money and has a greater share of the money. He has a greater sense of security because he works and has that income-earning capacity. The wife has the diversion, if one can call it that, of caring for the children of the marriage. The wife's economic future is in somebody else's hands. She is more dependent upon outside help. Because of the domestic demands made upon her by the children of the marriage, she has less time and less energy to devote to her own personal causes. 
Clause 72, as presently contained in the Family Law Bill, can have this effect: A man and woman many. When they marry they, either expressly or impliedly, agree that the husband will do the work or the job he wishes to do- by and large the husband has that choice- and that the wife and mother will adopt as her career the vocation of a wife and mother. Time marches on and they each follow their chosen careers. Then the husband unilaterally decides that the wife will have to change her chosen career. She is then immediately on the defensive, trying- I might add at her own cost- not to be forced into a career that she never wanted in the first place, that she does not want now and that she never will want. The wife then has the task of trying to convince a court that she should not be thrown out to work instead of the husband having the task of showing why she should be thrown out to work. As a matter of simple elementary justice, its effluvia is nauseating. 
Clause 75, which provides the criteria under which maintenance is determined, is shockingly drafted. Its provisions, assuming that one can understand them, are tortuous. They will be expensive by litigation, they will create injustice and distress and, even when they are understood, they will not be acceptable. As the authorities now stand, in every case all the sub-clauses of clause 75 will have to be considered, even if subsequently they are proved to have little or no relevance to the case at issue. One of the most objectionable sub-clauses of clause 75 is sub-clause (e), which provides that the court shall take into account the responsibilities of either party to support any other person. What does 'responsibilities' mean? Does it mean legal responsibilities or moral responsibilities that are voluntarily assumed- for example, a de facto relationship? Imagine how carried away by the justice of it all a wife will be when her maintenance is reduced because her husband finds that he has a responsibility to support a de facto- a lady who might find herself to be pregnant! The fact that the husband has committed adultery is, by this Bill, of no consequence and no significance and, of itself, gives the wife no remedy. But the fact that as a result of such adultery the lady in question is pregnant may well mean that the wife must accept less maintenance for herself and her children. I can just hear the wife bursting into peals of hysterical joy when she finds this out. 
Another iniquitous provision of the Bill is that which relates to the costs of litigating a divorce. The proposal that each party to the divorce pay his or her own costs may appear on the surface to be based on a principle of" equality but in fact it discriminates against women. The burden falls unequally on men and women, on husbands and wives. Many women do not work outside the home and depend on their husbands for any money that they get. I would say that this would be true in the majority of cases. Women in this position are particularly vulnerable to an order for costs. Some women are engaged in industry and work both in the home and out of it. In a divorce situation they may have to squander slender hard-earned savings or child endowment to pay lawyers. 
This legislation is bad legislation because it gives the presiding judge no discretion in fixing costs although conditions of the litigation or conditions of the parties may warrant some other order. Justice demands a fair go for all citizens. It is not justice that the good wife who has done nothing to end the marriage, who has been deserted by her husband for another woman and who wants to contest the divorce or contest custody of children should have to pay her own costs even if she wins. There are many instances in court hearings where one party wins on one issue but loses on one or more issues. In the name of equality is the court to be powerless to consider each case on its merits? I cannot recall any other laws of a civil nature, outside the fair rents courts, where each party has to pay his or her own costs regardless of the issues which are being litigated or the result of that litigation. In my view clause 1 1 7 in its present form should not be passed. Costs should be left in the hands of the judge hearing the case. 
In conclusion I would like to read an extract from one of the many letters which I have received in regard to the Family Law Bill. The letter, which was written by a lady, in part states: 
I believe there should be some reform regarding divorce but I also  most  firmly believe that the rights of children and marriage, if we are to continue living under our present socio-economic structure, must be protected and after perusal and deliberation I have reached the conclusion that this Bill will only undermine our society, irrespective of one 's religious persuasion. 
I would venture the suggestion that perhaps some member, if he really has the good of the people at heart, will exercise his faculties by presenting a Bill making marriage much harder to get into- thereby stopping the cart before the horse bolts . . . 
I most heartily agree with these sentiments. 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, is supplementary to a question asked of him yesterday by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. Is the Prime Minister aware of any development which might impede any question of the pecuniary interests of a member of Parliament being properly determined by the High Court? 
-Is leave granted? 
I agree with the sentiments that have been expressed by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  I admit that when I first saw clause 43 and tried to read it in conjunction with clause 48, which has now been passed by the Committee, there seemed to be some conflict. I am rather shocked by the attitude of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  in seeming to agree to the acceptance of the amendment which has been moved by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  I think that if there is one thing that we would want to establish in this country- we should certainly establish it for the Family Court -it is that marriage is permanent. Marriage as set out in clause 43 (a) is the proper concept of marriage. I would hate to think that at this stage of the debate there would be any watering down of the principles which I and the great bulk of the people in Australia hold about marriage. It is entered into permanently for life, as is clearly set out in the clause. I think that when the matter was debated in the Senate, this was one of the clauses which was amended to bring before the Family Court the prime reason for marriage; that is, that it is permanent. Only in the most exceptional circumstances should those marriage bonds be dissolved. I for one, as a practising Christian, as I think the bulk of Australians including honourable members of this chamber are, would hate to see any watering down into legalistic terms which would tend to give the opinion that marriage is something dissolvable almost at will and that the marriage contract when it is entered into is entered into with the thought that maybe it is not of a permanent structure. I think that any watering down of this sub-clause would not be of benefit to our way of life. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

Order! Does the Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Minister for Northern Development received any progress reports on development projects being financed by the Australian Government in northern Australia? Are these projects being co-ordinated with State governments and local authorities? Has he received any complaints from local authorities with respect to these Australian Government projects? 
-I wish to expose the hypocrisy of the Opposition - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

Order! The time allotted for the second reading stage of the Bill has expired. 
Question put:- 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Is the Minister for Labor and Immigration aware of the vulnerable employment situation for apprentices in times of reduced business activity? In view of the necessity to ensure a continuous and increasing supply of skilled manpower in apprenticeship trades,  can the Minister inform the House of any action he has taken to alleviate this situation? 
-I would not directly uphold the point of order because I think the honourable member for Hotham is getting around to the point, but slowly. 
Minister bringing the fight within the Labor Party out into the public again with a fantastic Press release issued last night. We are politicians, and to use the adjective of the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  we know the diabolical trouble that the Government is in. We expected a diversion today. We expected some sort of smokescreen. One of the forms of the House which a smokescreen can take for a political Party in trouble, is a discussion on a matter of public importance. So we expected a discussion on a matter of public importance. But we thought it would need to be good; something that would really grab a headline. 
-The Bill is a fairly wide one. I will not uphold the point of order because the Leader of the Opposition is speaking about unemployment- a matter that is referred to in the Bill. 
However, they are not very brave in this Parliament. They do not speak in support of their own State. They do not speak against the policies of the Government which are destroying industry in Tasmania and throughout Australia. The same can be said of other honourable members. It can be said of  Mr Speaker.  He is somewhat restrained now, but before he was elevated to that position I had not noted him speaking for the motor industry in Geelong and of the unemployment which is likely to occur there as a result of the initiatives of the Government in bringing another manufacturer into Australia. 
At the point at which I was interrupted I was saying that the record Budget deficit is the direct responsibility of the Prime Minister whose own extravagant expenditure plans- the national compensation plan, Medibank and national superannuation, which are pet hobbies of the Prime Minister- will add enormously to the deficit next year. Is he going to abandon these plans? Is the present Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  or the one we will have on Saturday, if Saturday is the day he is to be appointed- perhaps the present Treasurer will be allowed to introduce the Budget and then he will be sacked- proposing a deficit of $4,000m or $6,000m? There is one estimate which indicates that if all the expenditure plans of the Government are carried through as promised there will be a deficit of $6,000m. What will that do to inflation? What will that do to unemployment? Both will rise. 
The Government cannot understand that the continual pump priming in the present fashion will only add to unemployment because the preconditions for a successful take-off in the private enterprise sector just do not exist. For pump priming through deficit financing to be successful there must be some stability in the economy, there must be at the worst a very modest level of inflation, there must be relative stability in wage rates, there must be confidence in the future and there must be the circumstances in which industries, small and large, can and will invest in the future of Australia. What board room has made a forward investment decision over the last 6 months or will do so over the next 6 months? Last year the problem caused by the Government was related to a credit squeeze and an inability to raise funds. Very real problems were caused by the credit squeeze and the high rates of interest. This year, while funds might be a little easier to gain, industries are not borrowing and investing in the future because they have no confidence that they can cover the cost of the borrowing because of inflation and what even the Prime Minister in one or two of his perspicacious moments has called excessive wage claims. So the Budget deficit will be the result of the Prime Minister's policies and he cannot wash it out of his hair by saying that it was the fault of poor Frank Crean or poor Jim Cairns or poor Bill Hayden. Will the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  be the next one? He is the one who undercut the present Treasurer by informing the Prime Minister of negotiations and suggesting to him that he ought to ask for the papers concerning the overseas loans. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The Leader of the Opposition is taxing my patience a little. He has now definitely gone beyond the Bill and I suggest that he get back to it. 
What has gone wrong? There has been a lack of a coherent approach. The Government has played politics with the economy. Its theology has been more important than the practical realities of what is happening in Australia. There were 4 Budgets in 1974-75. The Government says that it has to look at the economy on a continuous basis. If there was any stability in the economy and if the Government had a capacity to plan ahead and to understand, it could have had, as the previous Government had, one Budget in a year, and people would know what the situation would be for the rest of the year, companies could plan ahead and companies could invest. Companies like APPM would not have to be the subject of special measures from this Government in order to survive and prevent unemployment rising in a local area. It is only because of the extreme instability created by the idiotic policies of this Government that measures of this kind are necessary. 
Last year we had the Treasurer's Budget Speech in September, a statement by the Prime Minister in November about some other concessions and this year an announcement in January about a cut in sales tax on motor vehicles which gave a very significant advantage to 3 large multinational companies but which ignored completely and absolutely the thousands of small purely Australian companies, because the measure of their difficulty and harm was that they would have to lay off only 5, 10, 15 or 50 men, not the 5000 that General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd would have to lay off. Where is the Government's theology in that? It is helping large multinational companies but ignoring the thousands of purely Australian companies in equal difficulties. They were ignored and they continue to be ignored. 
The unco-ordinated and ad hoc tariff and currency measures have also added to the problems of industry. What is going to happen next? Is there to be another Treasurer on Friday or another Treasurer on Saturday? If so, will he last until the time of the next Budget or until after it, or will he survive only to put a Budget to the Caucus and then be dismissed, as it appears the present Treasurer is going to be dismissed? The Prime Minister is adept at changing his Ministers. The Prime Minister is adept at blaming his Ministers. He ought to understand that he is the Prime Minister and is responsible for the actions of his Government. He cannot maintain his own purity by laying blame for the problems and difficulties of his Government on other Ministers. It ought to be understood that he has a total responsibility for the actions of all his Ministers. 
Who are the other Ministers he mentioned on 'Monday Conference'? It should be noted that that program was recorded early last Thursday, as I understand it. Last Thursday he was saying that he had no confidence in some of his Ministen, that there are much better people. So far only one has gone. Who are the others who are going to go? Is the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  one of them? Does the Prime Minister have confidence in the Attorney-General? Does he have confidence in other Ministers? We just do not know. He is just starting. Where is he going to finish in trying to establish confidence in his own Ministers? If the Prime Minister has no confidence in his own Ministers, how can companies like APPM, how can industry, how can the Australian people and particularly the Australian who is now employed and does not know whether he will be next on the list of unemployed have confidence in a government in which the Prime Minister himself says he has no confidence? It is a sheer nonsense. I believe that the Australian people will understand it and I am certain that the people of Bass will understand it when they have an opportunity to express their feelings a little later this month. 
There has been a total cynicism by this Government in attacking the root causes of the present problem. It started off by saying: 'More wages, bigger wages, better wages ' and using the Public Service as a pacesetter. It now says that the Public Service cannot be used as a pacesetteror at least half of the Government members do. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said today: 'I am right. The Government is wrong but the Government view prevailed '. He made it quite plain that in his view some measures currently before the Parliament are operating as a pacesetter in a way that is detrimental to the wider good of Australia. More often than not the Minister for Labor and Immigration has been right in a number of things he has said about the economy and growing unemployment. He has been ignored on each occasion, perhaps largely because the Prime Minister has been out of the country almost more days than the Parliament itself has been sitting and has not been here to listen to one of the few Ministers to whom he ought to listen. I think if the Prime Minister wanted a responsible Treasurer he ought to consider the Minister for Labor and Immigration as a Treasurer. At least he has some experience and he has shown - 
Treasurer, and certainly much more nearly right than the Prime Minister. But perhaps he would become too close to the sun and too powerful a force if he were given that responsible job. I have no doubt about his capacity to fill it with honour and distinction. 
There has been a cynical approach to wages. The Government has known every time it has encouraged trade unions to ask for a higher wage or for a more significant return that because of the impact of the progressive tax scale a larger part of the total income of the country automatically goes into the hands of the Government. Therefore the trade unions' efforts to maintain their position and their standard of living under the impact of the progressive tax scale are essentially self-defeating. They feed the coffers of the Government and serve no other purpose. The Government ought to be explaining that with great force to the trade union movement, but it has not done so. 
The Government has failed to deal with the problem of the mushrooming deficit. The increasing size of the deficit results from proposals made by every Minister which almost automatically get accepted. The Government talked about cuts earlier this year. One Minister came away from Cabinet crestfallen because he had made a proposal for new expenditure and it had not been accepted. That was regarded as a cut. It was the first cut there had been in anything this Government had done, but the definition of 'cut' in the Government's terms is an interesting one. 
We have heard what the Prime Minister has said about the changing causes of inflation. Firstly it was imported, then it was caused by excessive profits, then it was caused by wages, then it was the fault of the Treasurer, and now it is the fault of another Treasurer. Always the Prime Minister had an alibi. Who is going to be next? What is the next excuse? Why does the Prime Minister not say that inflation is still overseas caused when it is falling in a number of countries which are our principal trading partners? If it is overseas caused it ought to be coming down in Australia, but it is still rising. It is falling in Japan, Germany, Canada, the United States of America and other countries belonging to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. The Prime Minister knows quite well that inflation in Australia is caused by the policies of his Government, and policies for which he in particular has a personal and intimate responsibility. 
There has been a total avoidance of responsibility by the Prime Minister and an apparent total capacity to try to blame other? for the errors of his Government when he, as Leader of the Government, ought to accept responsibility in total terms for what the Government does- its successes and its failures. He has repeatedly dumped policies, Ministers and promises. We had the confusion at Terrigal. He tried to pretend that the Government was going to support private enterprise, but then it introduced measures for the Australian Government Insurance Corporation and the Purchasing Commission which represent one of the most dangerous and difficult attacks on private enterprise that we have ever seen. For good reason those measures have been postponed until the Budget session. 
Inflation has to be reduced. Unless it is reduced there will be no return to full employment, no reduction in interest rates, no return to a healthy private sector, no lasting relief for those on fixed incomes and no return to stability in the housing market. A coherent plan to rehabilitate the Australian economy would involve a cut in Government spending. The present Treasurer has said that there will be a cut in Government spending in all programs that are new. Is that why he is going to be sacked on Friday? Wage growth must be controlled and the Government must put its arguments to wage tribunals. Capital investment must be encouraged or there will not be a creation of jobs. The taxation burden has to be reduced, and the Australian people need to believe that a firm and determined Government is in power, not a politically irresponsible rabble such as we have seen over the last 48 hours. 
There can be no confidence in the present Government's ability to achieve stability and sense in the Australian economy because of the infamous record of this Government; the record that leads to the kind of special measures which are necessary to paper over the cracks which we see at the present time, namely record inflation and unemployment, low levels of housing construction, high interest rates, record and growing Government deficits - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! I refer the honourable member to the contents of the Bill. The first paragraph of the second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  states; 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek the approval of the Parliament to pay to Tasmania, in accordance with the provisions of Section 96 of the Australian Constitution, a sum not exceeding $650,000. Such payments are to be made in return for Tasmania providing financial assistance to Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd, subject to that company in turn maintaining employment at agreed levels. 
I think that the honourable member is straying away from the contents of the Bill. I ask him to make sure that he keeps his remarks as relevant as possible to the Bill. 
Has the attention of the  Minister for Health been drawn to the excessive use of Valium and Librium as tranquillisers? Does he agree that there is excessive use? Can any action be taken to prevent the medical profession from over-prescribing these 2 drugs? 
Br EVERINGHAM- It is a matter of judgment as to whether any particular tranquilliser is over-used. I think that responsible medical authorities by and large agree that they are uneasy about the level of consumption of tranquillisers. It is a rapidly increasing level not only in Australia but also in many other countries. Australia seems to be pretty near the lead in this regard. Unfortunately, when a patient comes to a doctor who is hard pressed- there is a worldwide shortage particularly of family doctors at the moment- the doctor often gives in to the patient's suggestion that he needs some chemical relief from his problems. That is due to the lack of other facilities to handle those problems. This Government has seen the need and has moved to remove the cause, which is that the doctor is, as it were, left out in the community without any other resources to handle these problems. The Government has launched a community health program, incorporating a community mental health program, which will correct this problem to the extent that people such as social workers, lay counsellors, domiciliary nurses and home helps can be brought into the community health team and, increasingly, the community itself can be brought in. 
One of the reasons for the increasing stress on people which causes their resort to tranquillisers and sedative is the complexities of modern life and urbanisation. Of course it is always very easy for those mental health experts on the other side to interject and say that this is brought about by the Party in power in Canberra, but what they consistently said when they were in power was that this is primarily a matter for the States. Most of the States, including the two most populous States, are in the hands of their mates. The position is that the Government has shown its concern. It has moved to remove the main cause of over-prescribing of these drugs by giving doctors an alternative. It has moved to educate the profession. 
We will shortly be bringing out an Australian version of the Prescribes Journal, which our predecessors circulated as a re-hashed version of the English journal. We are going to make it an active journal in which the profession in Australia will be involved and which will give them information on local prescribing habits and indications. We are doing something about training pharmacologists. There are only about half a dozen in Australia. That is a scandalous situation. We have done something to correct this and to bring pharmacology into the medical course so that doctors will have a far more responsible appreciation of what drugs do. There is a reason why drugs are restricted to prescription only and not sold over the counter. Unfortunately a lot of doctors, once they get their diplomas in their pockets, forget this and just read the glossy literature with which they are bombarded in the mail, without due consideration of the side effects and the contraindications of the drugs they are prescribing. 
My queston is directed to the Prime Minister. When will awards under the new Order of Australia be announced? Can the Prime Minister inform me how many awards will be made and whether the States also will be making awards? 
Can the Prime Minister give to the House any information on the costing of alternatives to the Budget proposals which were put forward by the Treasurer on behalf of the Government? 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Let me first congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  on bringing down his first and, I hope, not his last Budget. It was a responsible Budget. The Budget priorities are framed to decrease the rate of inflation which is this nation's most menacing enemy. The private sector is recovering, and the Budget strategy aims to foster that recovery and also to consolidate the gains which have been made in the public sector under the last 2 Labor Budgets. There is a harsh method of bringing down the rate of inflation, but this Government has not chosen that method. Instead, it has sought to find a middle way. The harsh method would result in higher unemployment, higher interest rates, a sharp rise in direct income tax, a contraction of the money supply and huge cuts in government expenditure. Instead, this Government has acted responsibly and with moderation. Certainly there are some bitter pills to swallow- higher postal and telephone charges and increases in the excise charges on beer, spirits and tobacco products. However, I should point out that if one is ill- there is no doubt that our economy is ill at the present time- some medicine must be taken to cure that illness. These charges are just part of that medicine. Even the Liberal-National Country Party Opposition has admitted belatedly that it would have taken the same course. 
What this Government has also done in the Budget is to restrain sharply the rate of growth in 
Government spending compared to last year. Certainly, there was a huge increase in necessary Government spending over the last 2 years. The reason for this was the neglect in particular areas by the previous Liberal-National Country Party governments over a period of 23 years. For example, let us take education. Over the past 2 years spending on education by the Australian Government has quadrupled. It has grown 4 times. The effects of this expenditure on education are only now starting to take shape. I have seen the effect of this expenditure at disadvantaged schools in my electorate, particularly in the non-state schools and mainly in the Catholic schools. Prior to 1972 when Labor came to power these Catholic schools were really struggling. They were trying to cope with excessive class loads, inadequate equipment and inadequate facilities. The pupils attending these schools were second class citizens due to these disadvantages. It was not their choice. But thank God since Labor came to power the children who attend these schools are now receiving the same educational opportunities as everyone else. And why should they not? As was announced by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech, the expenditure on education in this financial year will rise by $237m to $ 1,908m which, allowing for inflation, will maintain the pre-existing rates of expenditure. 
The state schools system has also made tremendous gains since Labor came to power. These gains will be continued during the coming years while Labor remains in office. There are many disadvantaged schools even in the state school system. They include schools in the inner city areas and schools with a large proportion of migrant children who need specialised teacher training, particularly in English. These problems were recognised by the Schools Commission which was set up by the Labor Government. The necessary funds have been made available and will continue to be made available by this Labor Government. 
On the receipts side, the Government has introduced the most sweeping reform of the income tax system. There will be a substantial reduction in the marginal tax rates for most full time employees. The greatest reductions will be in the average male earnings income range which is about $150 a week at the present stage. A tax rebate system has been introduced which will greatly favour the single income family with dependent children. It seeks to bring about a greater amount of equity in the bearing of the tax burden. I add that this has occurred not before time because the tax system up to date has favoured those who have it at the expense of those who have not. 
I would like to give a couple of examples of the effects which will How from the Budget which was recently introduced. A married man in receipt of an income of $7,000 a year- not a large sum- with a dependent wife and 2 children will, under this new Budget, pay $427 less in this year- 1975-76- than he paid in the year 1974-75. That represents a tax reduction of over $8 a week which is a substantial increase in his take home pay. I might add that it is of far greater advantage to him to have the tax reduction than to receive an $8 a week wage increase which would have had to bear its share of additional income tax. A similar sized family in receipt of an income of $12,000 a year will pay $817 less tax in 1975-76 than was paid on the income of that family in 1974-75. Expressed in percentage terms, that represents a reduction of 24. 1 per cent in the income tax paid by that taxpayer. One of the greatest benefits which will flow from the tax measures which have been brought down in this Budget will be that it will take out of the tax field altogether over half a million- about 500,000- former taxpayers. Under this Budget they will pay no tax at all during the 1975-76 financial year. 
I shall make a few comments in regard to the general state of the economy. It is true to say that one of the greatest problems in the economy at the present time is a lack of confidence in the community. The question must be asked: Is this lack of confidence real and based on fact or has it been engendered by the hysterical ranting and raving of the Liberal-Country Party Opposition, ably supported by a scaremonger Press? How often does one read the banner headlines in the metropolitan Press: 'Australian Unemployment up; 500 000 Unemployed by Christmas'; 'Downturn in the Economy'; 'Harder times ahead'. The Press of Australia has a lot to answer for in the destruction of people's confidence. If we destroy the people's confidence we destroy the community. If we follow this destruction to its natural conclusion, the Press and the Press barons can bring about the destruction of this society in which we live. I ask honourable members to remember that it was Lenin who said: 'Capitalism will eventually destroy itself. I warn these Press Jeremiahs that they can bring about the destruction of our present system of society a lot sooner than they think if they continue with their present tactics. 
When people lose confidence and cannot look into the future with confidence they cease spending and commence hoarding. We only have to look around the community today to realise that this is a fact of life. When people cease buying manufactured goods, other than food and necessities, it must have and it does have an effect on our manufacturing industries and resultant employment. Let me give a simple example. A person may wish to replace his refrigerator but, due to uncertainty about the economic future, he decides he will put up with his present refrigerator and leave his money in the bank. I ask honourable members to magnify this effect a thousandfold. The net result is that the manufacturer does not have a market for his refrigerator. He curtails production. Therefore he does not need as many employees to manufacture refrigerators so he sacks his surplus staff, thus creating unemployment. There is also the chain reaction from this created unemployed- I emphasise 'created'- which goes right through the community creating more unemployment. The available statistics from the Australian Bureau of Statistics on movements in savings bank balances is evidence of this trend. I ask for leave of the House to have incorporated in  Hansard  details of deposit balances in savings banks between June 1973 and June 1975 on an Australiawide basis. I have made arrangements with the honourable member in charge of the Opposition side of the House. 
-I thank the House. These statistics show that as at 30 June 1975 deposits in savings banks throughout Australia amounted to $ 12,768m, a not inconsiderable sum, compared with $ 11,195m as at 30 June 1974, which was exactly one year previously. This was an increase over the 12 months of $l,573m in savings banks or a 14 per cent increase. As at 30 June 1973 the deposits in savings banks amounted to $ 10,237m. The increase during that year to 30 June 1974 amounted to $95 8m, an increase of only 9.3 per cent. 
It is interesting to compare the unemployment figures with the variation in savings bank deposits, because it seems to support my contention that there is a co-relationship between excessive increases in savings bank balances and increases in unemployment. Between June 1973 and June 1974 unemployment fell from 81 376 to 78 827 when savings bank balances rose by only 9.3 per cent. Compare this unemployment situation with the situation between June 1974 and June 1975, when unemployment increased to 245,975- a substantial increase in anyone's language- and savings bank balances increased in the same period by $ 1,573m, an increase of 14 per cent. This is a strange circumstance which happens. In the year ended 30 June 1975 unemployment rose to a record figure and so did deposits in the savings banks- an amazing situation. It shows that people are frightened to spend, and when they are frightened to spend that creates more unemployment. We get down to the crunch. Who created the uncertainty? It was not the Government which created the uncertainty; it was the Jeremiahs on the opposite side of this chamber, ably supported by the Press, who cry wolf. It is no wonder the people have lost confidence. They have not the full facts. They believe what they read in the Press, and they stop spending. 
Another cause for concern in the economy is the downward trend in the overall demand for consumer credit. That is another effect of the deliberately created lack of confidence in the community- something for which the Press and the Jeremiahs in the Opposition will have to answer in the years to come. The depression of the 1930s was the result of a lack of confidence. The Wall Street crash was caused by a lack of confidence. That lack of confidence was deliberately created by the same forces which are trying to bring down this Government. If they succeed, which they will not, they could wreck the economy. Do the Jeremiahs want to create another depression similar to that of the 1930s with all its attendant misery, humiliation and human destruction? If they do, they will have a lot for which to answer. According to the statistics on consumer credit, there appears to have been a falling off in the second half of 1974-75. If my memory serves me right, it was during this period that the Press of Australia decided to put the crunch on this Government. The Press has succeeded in one thing- it has destroyed, or is on the way to destroying, the economy of the country but it will never get rid of this Government. At present there is a situation of collapsing demand, the result of a deliberately created lack of community confidence. 
The statistics in respect of total household credit demand, excluding savings bank credit for housing, show the picture quite clearly. Listen to these figures: In the December 1973 quarter there was an increase in demand of $434.3m. In the March 1974 quarter it started to fall. It fell to $303.8m. In the June 1974 quarter it increased slightly to $320m. In the September 1974 quarter there was a dramatic fall to $17 1.7m. In the December 1974 quarter it fell still further when demand increased by only $69.2m. The fatal quarter was the March 1975 quarter when the Press was really hammering us and the economy. There was a decrease in consumer demand of $90. lm. This decline in household demand for credit is not a healthy sign. It must have, and has had, its effect on the manufacturing industries of Australia and employment opportunities. With the fall in demand for household credit there has been a fall in the demand for goods with a consequent fall in manufacturing production with resultant unemployment, and so the cycle goes on. My message to the Jeremiahs of the Opposition, including the Leader of the Opposition, and also to the Australian Press is this: If you have the interests of the people of Australia at heart, get off the people's backs. Stop playing pOlitiCS. Be responsible. Stop crying wolf. Stop the carping criticism and allow the Australian economy to right itself for the benefit of all Australians. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr O'Keefe)  adjourned. 
-I remind the honourable member that the Bill before the House at the moment is not the National Health Bill. The House is discussing in a cognate debate the Excise Tariff Bill, the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Bill and the Customs Bill (No. 2). The honourable member seems to be wandering a little astray from the subject. 
The Government is locked in in other ways. The deficit proposed in the Budget for 1974-75 was $570m. It turned out to be $2,567m. The Government would have been running away to an even greater deficit this year had not a genuine concensus of informed pre-Budget discussion acted to restrain the Government in that area. The Government is locked in by the inflation that is set running and the need to moderate that inflation on the cost side particularly, as I have suggested, through the policy of wage indexation requiring significant reductions in the impact of personal taxation. That was something that should have been met by this Budget. 
The Government has engineered, through a variety of measures, a low state of corporate profitability. Something had to be done in that area to stop the bleeding. The proposals of the Mathews Committee just had to be implemented, so any rational person would have said. With all these contraints plus the Government's socialist anti-business ideology the Government is, as I have said, locked in. As a mathematician would say, the situation was over-determined. It was a ball game of the 
Government's own making. I want to stress that point. It is a different ball game from what we would have been coping with, and that is at the core of the answer as to the Opposition's stance in respect of the indirect tax increases. 
Given the corner that the Government has backed Australia into and given what the Government has already done, the alternative Budget we put before the House is the only one feasible. It gives a high priority to personal tax indexation. It gives a high priority, as I said a moment ago, to stopping, by the implementation of the Mathews Committee report, the bleeding of the profitability of the corporate sector. Above all, we would not be in this game of trying to perpetrate this fraud on the Australian worker, compounding the mischief of these indirect tax increases before the House by the device of proposing to exclude their effect from the price index to be used for wage indexation purposes. It is there that the final blow is dealt to the attempt to make wage indexation work; it is there that we have the final undermining of this major initiative effectively to combat inflation stemming from soaring costs. So we have these increases. The Government proposes to compound the mischief by this approach. All I can say is that the Government is mad in this situation where the necessity to combat inflation is so important. 
As a final footnote one might point out that another alternative the Government could have contemplated, and a means by which these tax increases could have been avoided, would have been a larger deficit. But again the Government is hit by the constraints. After one massive deficit of $2,500m stemming from the Government's profligate spending last year there is no way in which it could move on to an even bigger one this year. Yet I would express the personal view, and I stress that it is personal, that if all else had failed the cancelling of these increases in excise taxes and charges would take more from the inflation rate than the increased deficit in which this might have resulted would have put on the inflation rate via its monetary effects- and it need not necessarily have produced an increased deficit with proper restraint on spending. 
The excise tax changes before the House are an integral part of a Budget which, as I argued in the Budget debate, will in the coming months be found wanting. It will do little or nothing for inflation and unemployment, unhappily, is likely to get worse. Unhappy Australia under this incompetent Labor Government! 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="096131197509045_27_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197509045_28_1.jpg"></graphic>

Finally I refer to Evans-Deakin Industries Ltd shipyards in Brisbane. This matter has been brought before the House on many occasions not only by myself but also by Government supporters. Some weeks ago the  Chairman  of the Board of Directors announced that all shipbuilding at the Evans Deakin shipyards would conclude in the very near future. Since this Government came to power we have seen half the Australian shipbuilding yards closed, including those of the Adelaide Ship Construction Co., Walkers Ltd in Maryborough and now Evans Deakin in Queensland. Time and again the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  had endeavoured to blame the management of Evans Deakin. According to a report in the Brisbane  Courier Mail  of 26 October 1974 the organiser of the Amalgamated Workers Union said that 'Evans Deakin workers were not satisfied with the Federal Government's shipbuilding policies'. The Government carries the blame for having been responsible for so much destruction of the shipbuilding industry. My speaking time has almost expired so I conclude by referring to promises made by the Prime Minister when, as Leader of the Opposition, he visited the Evans Deakin shipyard prior to the 1972 elections. He said: 
I thank you very much for turning out in such numbers and being so attentive . . . 
I do ask you, not only to yourselves, but if people know you work for Evans Deakin, they know that a great deal of the future of this city, of secondary industry in this city, for apprentices and skills, the future of people interested in industry in Queensland, in Brisbane, depends on the future of this the largest employer in Queensland except Mt Isa Mines themselves.. 
He then went on to say: 
Only the Australian Labor Party offers a future to you. 
Now the shipyard is closed. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In speaking to the estimates of expenditure for the Department of the Treasury my remarks are addressed particularly to Division 672 ( 1 )- Australian Taxation Office, Salaries and Payments in the nature of Salary. I refer particularly to the investigation section of the Taxation Office. To me it appears quite ludicrous that staff ceilings are applied generally and in the same fashion over the whole of the Australian Public Service irrespective of the particular functions of an individual department or a branch of a department. These staff ceilings in my opinion should be applied in a more flexible manner. Some departments should be limited to present staffing positions or even reduced while others performing a real function should have no staff ceiling at all whilst they continue to function efficiently. This latter situation applies to the Taxation Office and in particular to the investigation section of that office. 
I would like to quote some comments which were made in the most recently published report of the Commissioner of Taxation- the fifty-third report. In that report  Sir Edward  Cain, the Commissioner of Taxation, speaking of the task of collecting revenue, had this to say: 
This task, which involved the collection of about $S,500m in the course of last year, requires the Commissioner of Taxation and his staff to be interested in the results of every business operation and every income producing transaction taking place in the country. This would impose a formidable burden even if the task could be approached with perfect knowledge of the affairs of all taxpayers and if all taxpayers were able and willing to comply fully with the spirit of the laws enacted by Parliament. 
In practice, the position is far more complicated- in Australia as in all other developed countries- because a minority of taxpayers will inevitably attempt to avoid the intended weight of taxation, by legal or illegal means; and the devices entered into to alter the incidence of taxation give rise to counter-measures in the taxation laws which complicate the task of the officials who have to administer the law . . . No country can afford the resources needed to enforce an absolute level of compliance upon all of its citizens. There is necessarily a compromise between what might seem theoretically desirable and the resources that the community can spare for tax administration in the light of other priorities. 
In that report the Commissioner of Taxation gave details which were applicable to the year ended 30 June 1974 of the number of income tax investigations and the revenue which was raised from them. The number of investigations during that year amounted to 5827 and the additional revenue raised by tax and penalty amounted to a not inconsiderable sum of $53,451,244. During that year according to the report only 909 investigations officers were operating throughout the whole of Australia. The point that concerns me is that the number of investigators shown in the Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the year ending 30 June 1976 is only 724. This compares with 656 for the year ended June 1975 and 909 for the year ended June 1974. It could well be that those figures do not show the true picture because apparently they do not take into account the number of sales tax investigators. There is no break-up of these numbers in the summary which is attached to the Budget Papers. 
I would now like to quote from evidence given by senior officers whom we employ to enforce taxation legislation. Honourable members will note that I am not just giving my own opinion but the opinion of the experts. At a meeting on 22 April 1974 of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, of which I am a member, we had before us officers of the Taxation Office. This meeting which was held in public was inquiring into some of the affairs of the Taxation Office. I took the opportunity to ask for an authoritative opinion or expression of opinion from  Mr P.  J. Lanigan, the Second Commissioner of Taxation, about the extent to which the enforcement provisions of the taxation legislation could be improved. Referring to what the Taxation Office calls the enforcement section- which I call the investigation section, having been an investigator before coming to this august assembly- I asked  Mr Lanigan  the following question about the Public Service: 
Would you care to express an opinion on what effect the staff ceiling has had in the build-up in the enforcement areas such as the investigation sections? 
I shall quote to the Committee verbatim from the transcript what  Mr Lanigan  had to say. He said: 
Our position - 
That is the position of the Taxation Officeis that at the moment each additional investigation officer is producing between $150,000 and $200,000 of revenue that we would have lost altogether. That means that if we can put on a new investigation officer he produces ten times his salary in additional revenue. If you were running a commercial business you would go on increasing the number of investigation officers until each officer's return came down to something like his cost. So there is no question that if we were free to be guided solely by the economic considerations which affect getting the best results from the Taxation Office we would be expanding very greatly. 
I ask honourable members to note what he said. He pointed out in so many words that if the Taxation Office were allowed it would be expanding very greatly. He went on to say this: 
It is not solely confined to investigations. It is also related to inspections. The force we have to enforce our tax instalment system is the critical way of controlling the tax paid by employees. It is common knowledge that substantial numbers of people work under false names. We have a limited force of people who try to stamp out this sort of thing. It is public knowledge that there is a great deal of it going on, particularly in areas such as the building industry where people work for very short times and so quite readily get by under false names. We have responded to this by stepping up our activities to some extent. But we have to face up to the fact that if we have an investigator on these sons of matters he loses $150,000 that he could have got on a fraud investigation. So the position from our point of view is that if we can expand in this area we can both curb inflation by taking money out of circulation and pay for our own results by getting more money in and perhaps making a contribution to unemployment. 
Maybe that is the solution to our economic problems. I do not know whether it is, but I think that his words are words of wisdom when he says that we can curb inflation by putting on additional tax investigators. I think that there is some sense in it. Later on in his evidence he had this to say: 
If the Government wished to do so- it is partly a matter of Government policy- we could readily expand investigation at a progressively substantial rate in advance of our present rate. 
I leave those thoughts with the Acting Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  because it is an important matter. At a later part of the inquiry  Mr Lanigan-  I think this is a telling point- in answer to a question I posed to him, said: 
The answer to your question specifically is that we could expand to a very substantial extent if the Government decided that it wanted that to be done. 
I leave those thoughts with the Acting Treasurer and ask whether he will bring them before the mind of the Treasurer when he returns to this Parliament to see that the wisdom that has been expounded by those very senior officers in the Taxation Office- the Commissioner of Taxation and the Second Commissioner of Taxation- can be taken note of and that perhaps in the next Budget we can have a considerably greater amount of money provided for salaries to be paid to investigation officers who would return tenfold the amount they are paid in salaries. 
Has the attention of the Treasurer been drawn to reports of the theft of a letter which was drafted for his consideration by the Treasury? Can he give the House any information about this letter or the thief? 
-In speaking to the estimates of the Department of Tourism and Recreation it is worthy of note that until the advent of the Whitlam Government in 1972 no Australian Government had shown any interest in the provision of recreation facilities for the people of Australia. The Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  was required to start with completely fresh ideas and initiatives to encourage people to think about community recreation and leisure activities and to transpose those ideas into action. There is not one member of this House who can honestly say that the Minister has not succeeded in achieving that objective. It has not been a case of just pouring Government money into the field of community recreation, nor, in my opinion, should it be. It has been necessary to involve people, to obtain their ideas on what their needs are and to develop new ideas in recreation programming. 
The State governments have now become involved, and not before time. The New South Wales Government, following the initiative of the Whitlam Government, has appointed a Minister for Sport and Recreation. Some of the States are now running workshops on recreation planning. These workshops will involve more people and are enabling a much wider coverage of what facilities should be provided for recreation and the effective use of leisure time. Experience has shown that the demand for community recreation facilities has far outstripped the funds which are available to the Department of Tourism and Recreation. This being so, the role of the Department should be to see that its funds are utilised in the most effective manner. With some minor exceptions, I believe the Department is carrying out that task. 
As an example of public demand, the Department received more than 200 applications for innovative recreation program assistance in 1974-75. However, due to a lack of funds it was able to fund only eleven of those programs during that year. This form of assistance will be continued during 1975-76, but unfortunately as only $100,000 is available the Australia-wide assistance will be only minimal. 
One matter that concerns me is whether the most effective use is being made of existing recreation facilities. The question could well be asked: Are the facilities already in existence in our schools being utilised to their full advantage? This applies not only to sporting facilities but also to educational facilities. Sporting fields at schools should not be the exclusive preserve of the children who attend those schools, but this seems to be the position today. Such an attitude results in a waste of facilities- and very costly facilities at that. The same applies to recreation halls, auditoriums, gymnasiums and even libraries. 
Most schools have facilities and equipment for their pupils to learn the manual arts- woodwork, pottery making, metal work and the like. It should not be left to the personal whim of some selfish school principal to decide that all of these facilities are to be used only by the children of his school during the hours of 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. and also that they will be left completely unused for 3 months of each and every year. For too long have we heard the attitude expressed: 'These facilities are mine, and outsiders cannot participate in their use '. The question can also be well asked: Just who are these outsiders? It just so happens that the outsiders are the people who pay for these facilities. I know that the Department is doing some work along these lines, but in my opinion much more needs to be done to enable the community to share in the use of these existing and costly facilities. 
Worthy of consideration is the attitude of one State government, the Government of South Australia, which is developing community recreation centres in association with the schools of that State. This work is in hand at secondary schools at Angle Park and Thebarton. I commend to the attention of honourable members a film in regard to these projects which has been produced by the Department of Tourism and Recreation and which shows what can be done with a little planning and foresight.  Mr Hansen,  a former member of this Parliament and now the Minister's liaison officer, has performed a very useful task for the Department and the people of Australia in going around and advising various local government authorities and bodies of the faculties that are available to them through the medium of the Department of Tourism and Recreation. I was present at one of those gatherings at which this film was shown to a group of local government mayors, councillors and officers covering a region of 9 local government areas. They did not know that these facilities existed and that it was possible so to plan a school that it could be utilised for the general use of the community. I would commend the film to honourable members and I recommend that they have a look at it when the opportunity arises. 
I would like to say a few words on the needs of passive recreation. Not everybody wants to be an athlete or, with due apologies to the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  a white flannelled fool. There are people who enjoy peace and tranquillity, who just want to sit, to think or meditate. There are people who enjoy bird watching- the feathered variety. Lord knows that in this rat race in which we live it is hard enough to escape the raucous sporting crowd or the teeming multitudes in our cities. The people who want to escape from them should be provided for. Australia is blessed with a natural scenery which is capable of much more exploitation for the benefit of those who just want to sit, rest and meditate. They are not a large pressure group but they are worthy of consideration. 
In conclusion I would like to commend the Minister for Tourism and Recreation for a job well done with a minimum of money and a maximum of effort. I trust that when the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  makes the next allocation of funds for this Ministry there will be a realisation that money spent on worthwhile projects will bring real value and benefit to real people. The people about whom I am concerned are not of the 'ratbag' fringe- that vocal group who seem to make their voices heard by government and thereby unfortunately obtain results for themselves. My concern is for the real Australiansthe majority of Australians- who could well be called the silent and unheard majority. 
-Can the Minister for Administrative Services say what limits are imposed by the Electoral Act on advertising and campaigning expenditure by political parties? 
-I agree with the honourable member for Murray. I think the honourable member for Casey is straying from the Bill. 
However, what I should draw to the attention of the House is the much more subtle assault which is being mounted against pensioners in this respect and how it is the most needy and the most vulnerable pensioners who are being singled out for this assault. While it is true, or it may turn out to be true, that the Opposition parties in the Senate ultimately will give passage to this Bill- here comes the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  to interrupt what I have been saying to the House, as is his custom. 
I was making the point when I was interrupted for the fifth time of just how greatly this Government has enhanced the value of the fringe benefits available to pensioners in this country. I had made the point of how much Medibank had effectively increased the fringe benefits available to pensioners in Australia. I was going on to speak about the very greatly enlarged and extended facilities for accommodation for pensioners because payments under the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act, the Aged Persons Hostels Act, the Handicapped Persons (Assistance) Act and the Homeless Persons Assistance Act have all been increased very greatly. In effect most of this legislation has been completely rewritten. For all practical purposes it is new legislation. 
It was this Government that brought in the arrangement of a four to one subsidy for this form of accommodation which opened up for the first time enormously increased business for the building of accommodation for aged and invalid people. 
-I am afraid that I cannot uphold the point of order. The amendment is an alternative proposition to the motion he moved. 
Griffith wants the House to accept the view that we are concerned about 'the failure of the Government to take action to restrict the effect of inflation'. The most important thing any government can do to restrict the effects of inflation on people is to reduce the rate of inflation. It is hard to believe that the honourable member was not aware of what took place during question time this morning. I do not know whether he was in the House when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced the quarterly increase in the consumer price index. If he was present he certainly did not change his speech. I suspect that he wrote this speech about a year ago when he put his motion on the notice paper. I remind the honourable member and those people listening to this debate that it was announced this morning that the consumer price index increased at the rate of 0.8 per cent for the quarter. If we were to follow the practice of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  the precedent he set, we would multiply that figure by four in order to get an annual inflation rate of 3.2 per cent. I do not put the proposition that in fact the inflation rate for the next 12 months will be 3.2 percent but we cannot overlook the fact that there has been a very remarkable reduction in the rate of inflation. Therefore I think it was very timely that the honourable member for Griffith should bring this matter forward. 
The honourable member for Griffith has asked the Government to 'restrict the effect of inflation on people with low incomes receiving superannuation or receiving welfare payments'. Let us consider the level of welfare payments made by the Labor Government. I noticed that neither the honourable member for Griffith nor the seconder of his motion, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  made direct reference to the level of social security payments in this country. They know that they are vulnerable on this point. They know that the Whitlam Government's performance in the field of social security is without parallel in the history of this country. This Government has provided record and unprecedented increases in all levels of social security. Most of these things were covered yesterday in the debate on pensions but I will mention them later if I have time. I do not think anybody could quarrel seriously with the contention that the level of pensions and payments to all beneficiaries of social security in Australia is far better than it has ever been before. 
The honourable member for Griffith finally suggested in his motion that 'the Government should take urgent action to ensure that these people are not adversely prejudiced by its economic mismanagement'. That is what he said at a time when the Opposition parties, having a quite fortuitous majority in the other place, are trying completely to disrupt the economy of this country. The Opposition is trying to create a situation in which the very people who are dependent on payments from the Government will not be able to receive their payments, not because pensions have been cut off with the Budget but because the administrative mechanism whereby pensions are paid- I refer to the payment of wages to the people who prepare the pension cheques and to other administrative costs- will be blocked by the obstruction of this Budget. 
The economic management record of this Government- and this is well reflected in the consumer price index figure given this morning -is one of which we can be proud. We believe that we have a long way to go. There are many things to do. As the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  said this morning, there are indications of improvement all round in the economy. But we do not wish to assert that we are completely out of the recession with which all countries in the Western world have been beset in the last year or two. However, I believe that the advance that has been shown by the consumer price index increase of 0.8 per cent released this morning is an extremely significant parameter. It will be the Opposition which will be responsible for any economic ills in this country which might flow from the obstruction of the Budget. I believe that this is something that the Opposition must squarely and responsibly face in the near future if it is not to cause not only problems affecting welfare payment recipients but also problems which will cause the widespread unemployment of people who are employed by government or who are dependent on government purchases and contracts for their incomes. 
We are told at the present time that the people of Australia want this Government thrown out. In those circumstances one would expect that the Opposition Parties would have a better welfare policy to put in the place of our policy. I think that the record and achievements of the Labor Government in this field, which are the result of our policies, will continue to be very much greater than anything that could be achieved by the Opposition Parties. I am not speaking here just in terms of the simple payment of social security benefits but of the provision of a wide range of services which have been introduced under Federal programs or Australian Government financed programs since 1972. 
I think it is quite clear from some of the statements of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that many of these programs would be in serious jeopardy if a LiberalCountry Party government were returned to office. I think it is quite clear if we examine the alternative philosophies and programs of the Government and the Opposition and above all the relative performance of the Parties when in government, that the performance and the policies of the Labor government are quite superior to those which the alternative government of this country wants the people to accept. 
I would briefly like to cover some ground in respect of the relative performances in the field of welfare payments. The basic pension has increased by 80 per cent since the December quarter of 1972. It is absolutely futile and wrong to say that this has been offset by the rate of inflation. This is clearly not so. The rate of increase in average weekly earnings in that time has been 56 per cent. The increase in the consumer price index is 4 1 per cent. Therefore clearly the basic pension has been very greatly increased. One has only to ask the pensioner associations anywhere in Australia and they will readily acknowledge that fact. The same thing is obvious when one looks at what has happened in terms of after tax income. Since the December quarter of 1 972 the increase in the take home pay of a typical family man on average weekly earnings has increased by 50 per cent. As I have said the increase is 56 per cent pre-tax. So in terms of after tax income the pensioner is even better off still. 
In other welfare areas the increases have been even greater than 80 per cent. For example, the special benefit paid to single people has increased by over 100 per cent. There has been an increase of more than 100 per cent in respect of class B and C widows' pensions and unemployment benefits. This is not to mention the increase in the supporting mothers' benefit which did not exist before the election of the Whitlam Government. I think that if we have a look at relative performance it is quite obvious that Labor's record is superior. 
The policy statement that was recently issued by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  could only at best be said to be a rather vacuous document. There is scarcely anything in it that is a specific criticism of anything which the Australian Labor Party Government has done. Certainly there is no undertaking to improve the rate of social security payments which have been provided by this Government and of which we are very proud. 
I would like to look beyond the specific policies and turn to the question of philosophy. I think that here the Leader of the Opposition has let the cat out of the bag by making repeated statements which clearly show that it is his aim if he ever, God help us, becomes Prime Minister of this country to take government out of the field of providing services and just completely confine any welfare activity to transfer payments. In other words, he wants to replace what he calls Labor's doctrines of enforced equality with what is apparently his philosophy of enforced inequality. I think it is quite clear that the payment of pensions and other benefits is the most important part of a welfare policy. It is equally clear that those payments must be adequate. I do not think that anyone would quarrel about that. But I do not think it can be said too often that that alone is not sufficient. There are certain basic services which must be provided by government and cannot be left just to market forces because if that happens there will be a gross maldistribution of benefits. When these resources are maldistributed there is no pun intended there- it is the poor who always miss out. 
I think there is something to fear in a pernicious doctrine which has now crept into the Liberal Party's philosophy of the voucher system which has been espoused by the Opposition's spokesman on education in another place who talks about an education voucher policy and by the honourable member for Hotham who talks about welfare vouchers. As I have said, I think that this is a most pernicious doctrine. It follows apparently from the visit to this country of Professor Milton Friedman, the arch-priest of early 19th century laissez faire so-called liberalism. I think it is quite obvious that Professor Friedman ought to be well satisfied with his visit to Australia because his policies which would take us back into the 19th century have been adopted lock, stock and barrel by the Opposition. I would like to give honourable members an example of what would happen if we were to apply the voucher system to the field of education. The poor people would spend their voucher money on education but the wealthy people would spend their voucher money plus other money of their own. The result would be that the overall cost of resources in the education field would be bid up. Because education would be left to market forces the rich people would get more and the poor people would get less. 
The only way in which we can ensure an adequate distribution of resources in any basic field- and again I use education as an example- is for us to ensure that the Government provides the service and that it employs and trains people to provide and work in the service as it proposes to do in respect of education and as it is implementing in respect of the school dental scheme. I think that the practice of fee for service medicine that we have inherited is an example of what would happen if we adopted a voucher system, because the subsidised fee for service system is really a voucher system. Under such a system we have the maldistribution of medical resources to the enrichment of the privileged people who provide those services. The privileged professional classes are the ones who are the 'prime beneficiaries of any voucher system. 
I hope that if we ever see the day when our political opponents are restored to government they will not allow the Leader of the Opposition to proceed with their absolutely reactionary and archaic policies which would result in a retreat into the 19th century and a reliance on market mechanisms to provide welfare services or any other basic services for people. I think it can be clearly shown by any number of empirical examples that such a system will result in gross maldistribution of. resources and no end to the chronic welfare problems that the capitalist system has to face. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the motion seconded? 
Is the Prime Minister aware of any information to suggest that the recently announced consumer price index increase figures are in any way incorrect? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Is there any provision in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which requires trade unions to have secret ballots in respect of industrial disputes? Is there any limitation on the type of dispute which may be settled by recourse to a secret ballot? 
-The honourable member for Riverina will cease interjecting. 
It is not sufficient that the Parliament should simply approve legislation setting up a framework within which land rights can be legally handed over to Aboriginal communities. It is very clear that if these communities are to take full advantage of the land rights vested in them under this legislation, acceptable proposals will have to be made for a system of advisers to work with the Aboriginal communities because where great difficulties have arisen in the past, where there have been failures or the foreshadowing of failures in Aboriginal communities, has been where advice was foisted on the community from outside rather than where the means were provided for the community to obtain advice on its own account. I want to make it very clear to the House that if advisers are to work successfully with the Aboriginal communities which take up land rights under this legislation it will need to be on the basis of a system of grants handed over without strings to the communities concerned so that they can then go ahead and employ the advisers of their choice. But we should not suppose that a group of people- a body of men and women- able to accept these highly specialised responsibilities will arise spontaneously. 
The role of the adviser to the Aboriginal community working its way towards a new sense of identity and a new sense of self-respect is a very delicate role. It is clear that the advisers who will be needed will require on the one hand practical qualifications- very wide experience in the administration of properties, the keeping of books, the maintenance of machinery and so on- and on the other hand the sensitivity and the anthropological background which is rarely found among people of this stamp. We should look to the experience of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea in developing this body of expertise. We should learn as much from our failures in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea as from our success there in the training of patrol officers. I repeat that this is too important a matter to be allowed to go by default. If we do not systematically and with determination tackle this question of providing appropriate training for Aboriginal community advisers the whole matter will indeed go by default and people who are utterly inappropriate for the role will move into positions because there will be a vacuum waiting there for them. At this stage of the development of the Aboriginal communities most likely to take up their rights under this legislation, it is unquestionable that the services of advisers are needed even to carry through the most routine and bureaucratic aspects of their relationship with the wider community and particularly in their relationship with governments. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker,  and I thank the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition for yielding. My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has his attention been drawn to serious allegations made on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's program  AM  this morning concerning activities of the American Central Intelligence Agency in Australia, particularly in the period prior to 1 1 November 1975? Does the Prime Minister intend to have an investigation made into these allegations and, if so, will he report the results of his investigations to this House? 
-I feel somewhat modest following that excellent speech made by the new honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  and whilst I am no expert on the history of America there is one quotation to which I would like to refer. These are the words of Benjamin Franklin: 
Where liberty dwells, there is my country. 
After hearing the events of the last few months I often wonder whether there is any liberty in this country. It is traditional when speaking in the Address-in-Reply debate to congratulate the  Speaker  on his appointment to that august position. I do so publicly now having done so privately previously. The position of  Speaker  is an important one. The  Speaker  must uphold the dignity of the Parliament not only within this chamber but also outside it. I am sure that the present  Speaker  has the capacity to do just that. In fact, I think I can say off the record that quite frankly I was surprised at how well he has been doing his job. That is meant to be a compliment. 
There is another matter about which I am gravely concerned, namely, the dignity of Parliament as an institution; even the very survival of the parliamentary institution itself. I refer to the Goebbels' technique of the big lie, the smear campaign and the destruction by innuendo. The architects of this destruction of our democratic institutions are none other than the Press barons of this country. Time and again we see the Press campaign of denigration of the elected member of the Parliament, whoever he may be. The campaign seems to be to drag down the leaders, and it seems to be becoming more maniacal in its intensity, for what reason I know not. In the short period in which I have been a member of Parliament, I have seen this maniacal campaign in operation and I say that unfortunately it has succeeded. 
First, there was the campaign to destroy John Gorton, a previous Prime Minister. The campaign of slurs, lies, and innuendoes succeeded. We lost, in my view, a good Prime Minister, a real Australian. Then the hatchets were out for his successor, one of the former Prime Ministers, the right honourable member for Lowe, the right honourable William McMahon. The Press campaign again succeeded. The Liberal-Country Party Government lost office. The Press campaign was then on to boost the present  Speaker  and he became Leader of the Opposition. However, he did not last long in their good graces. The hatchets were out after him, including some hatchets from within his own Party. The Press again succeeded in its campaign and  Mr Speaker  was axed and replaced by the honourable member for Wannon,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, the present Prime Minister. The campaign then really started in earnest to bring about the defeat of the twice elected Labor Government. There was the same pattern by the Press- slurs, lies, innuendoes, no holds barred, anything goes. The net result of this maniacal Press exercise of power was the dismissal of the democratically elected Labor Government by the Governor-General. A new Government was subsequently elected by what we call a democratic election. 
The question I pose is this: Is it really a true exercise of the democratic process when the Press and the media of this country can exercise so much power over the thoughts and actions of people, that the people become as mere putty in the hands of three or four Press barons? It is a sobering thought, but this is what has happened in the past and is still happening. The  Speaker  of this Parliament has a grave responsibility to protect not only the rights of members of this Parliament but also the parliamentary institution itself. The forces of ultra conservatism- the extreme right- are as great a threat to the democratic parliamentary institution as are those forces of the extreme left. 
There is one thing- I feel I must comment on it- that worries me after hearing most new honourable members of the Liberal-National Country Party Government make their maiden speeches in the Parliament. Unfortunately the majority of them seem to me to be ultra conservative, ultra right wing and out of touch with the real people in the electorates. I wish them well when they come down to earth. 
As my colleague has said, they are young Turks. I think that is a very appropriate expression. On 1 9 February I directed a question to the Prime Minister regarding allegations of activities in Australia by the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States of America. I asked the Prime Minister whether he intended to have an investigation made into the allegations and to report the results of the investigation to this Parliament. The Prime Minister said that the allegations were absurd and gave no assurances of conducting any investigation. That same day the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  also raised the matter in this Parliament and asked the Government to institute a full inquiry to ascertain whether the allegations were correct or incorrect. So far there has been no response from the Prime Minister or from any spokesman for the Government. The Prime Minister just cannot sweep these serious allegations of Central Intelligence Agency activities in Australia under the carpet. There should be an inquiry, not only into these specific allegations but also into other allegations of CIA activities. I would favour a move to set up a select committee of both Houses of this Parliament with representation from the Government and the Opposition to probe completely the specific allegations and all other allegations of CIA involvement in Australia. 
The important issue is whether the Central Intelligence Agency has been operating in Australia covertly to topple a legitimately elected Labor Government. That of itself is sufficiently important to warrant an inquiry into the whole issue. It is just not good enough for the Prime Minister to try to cover up. It is just not good enough to say that allegations of CIA activities in Australia are absurd. It has been established as a fact that the CIA has been involved in activities to topple legitimately elected governments in other parts of the world, so why not in Australia. Ex-President Richard Nixon adopted the same attitude as that being adopted today by our own Prime Minister. If Richard Nixon's protestations had been accepted there would have been no Watergate inquiry. Why will the Prime Minister not set up this inquiry? Is it because he fears the truth, as did Richard Nixon? The Australian people want no part of foreign interference in our affairs, irrespective of the country of origin of that interference. Inquiries currently taking place in the American Congress have indicated that interference in elections in other countries accounted for 30 per cent of the covert activities of the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States of America. 
There is evidence to show that on 10 November 1975, the day before the GovernorGeneral dismissed the Whitlam Government, a cable was sent from the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation liaison officer in Washington to the Director-General of ASIO in Canberra conveying a message from the head of the East- Asia Division of the CIA, a  Mr Shackley.  The CIA was apparently concerned at the activities of the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  and threatened to sever all intelligence links with Australia. The CIA was also apparently concerned with the activities of ASIO. There had been a revelation of the names of CIA operatives in Australia. Four people had been named- a  Mr Walker,  who was purported to be the CIA station chief in Australia, and three other CIA agents who had been designated as officers in charge of the ultra-secret installations at Pine Gap near Alice Springs. Those 3 people were named as  Mr Fitzwater, Mr Bonin  and  Mr Stallings. 
It is interesting to note that in early November 1975  Mr Whitlam  had spoken about  Mr Stallings  and his association with the Leader of the National Country Party, the Rt  Hon.  Douglas Anthony. The CIA had apparently jumped to the conclusion that  Mr Whitlam,  who was then Prime Minister, was a threat to CIA activities in Australa. The CIA apparently feared that Pine Gap was under threat, particularly as the agreement with the United States of America came up for renewal on 10 December 1975 which, it is interesting to note, was 3 days before the forced election. The CIA was also apparently concerned with the then government shakeup of ASIO and other intelligence services in Australia. The Director-General of ASIO,  Mr Peter  Barbour, had been shunted off to New York as Consul-General and the head of the Australian Secret Intelligence Service,  Mr T.  W. Robinson, had been sacked. 
By the Prime Minister of Australia, the Honourable Gough Whitlam. ASIO had been an embarrassment to the Whitlam Government, and in view of the close liaison between the CIA, ASIO and ASIS it would be true to say that the CIA had become an embarrassment to the Whitlam Government, and the CIA was aware of this. Is it any wonder that the CIA had reason to work against the Whitlam Government? History has shown that CIA dirty tricks helped to unseat the legitimate government of Australia, as had been done in other countries to legitimate governments. I have no doubt it was done here. 
Honourable members will recall the letter bomb incidents. We do not seem to have heard anything about them since the elections. That is a typical example of a CIA dirty trick. There is evidence to show that operatives from ASIS were working in Chile after being trained by the CIA during the period when  President  Allende was  President  of that country. It is known that Prime Minister Whitlam ordered their withdrawal as soon as he became aware of their presence there. Is it any wonder that the CIA was concerned that the continuance of the Whitlam Government was a threat to its own interests, which were not necessarily the interests of the United States of America? Is it any wonder that there is a real suspicion that the CIA had much to gain from the removal of the Whitlam Government and did in fact work to that end? That is the reason why there should be an inquiry- either here by a select committee of the Australian Parliament or by the already established committees of investigation set up by the United States of America Congress. 
The CIA is an evil organisation. They are not only my words but also the words of one of its operators, one of its agents. Let me quote the words of Phillip Agee: 
After 12 years with the CIA I finally understood how much suffering it was causing, that millions of people all over the world had been killed or at least had their lives destroyed by the CIA and the institutions it supports. 
He also said: 
Even after the revelations we 've had so far- 
He was referring to the world-wide activities of the CIA-  people still don't understand what a huge, powerful and sinister organisation the CIA is. It is the biggest and most powerful secret service that has ever existed. 
I quote him further: 
I don 't know how big the KGB- 
That is the Russian equivalent of the CIA-  is inside the Soviet Union, but its international operation is small compared with the CIA. It's known now that the CIA has 16 500 employees and an annual budget of $750m. But that is not counting its mercenary armies, its commercial subsidiaries . . . Add them together and it spends more like billions every year. 
The question which I ask the Government Parties is this: How much of that billion dollars did they receive for their election campaign? How much did the National Country Party of Australia receive from the multi-national oil companies? Honourable members opposite should not feel ashamed to admit it because they join a long list of other conservative right wing parties which are dedicated to maintaining the status quo and the oppression of the have-nots. A tremendous amount of damage has already been done to Australia's relationship with the USA over allegations of CIA involvement in the events which took place prior and subsequent to the dismissal of the Whitlam Labor Government. 
These allegations must be investigated. Obviously the Australian Government will not carry out these investigations. It has too much to lose. It is frightened. In the name of democracy there is no other alternative than to ask that the United States Congress itself investigate the activities of the CIA in Australia. I shall ask  Senator Frank  Church, the  Chairman  of the United States Senate Select Committee to Study Government Operations with respect to Intelligence Activities, to investigate CIA activities in Australia. I shall also ask Congressman Otis G. Pike,  Chairman  of the Select Intelligence Committee of the United States House of Representatives to investigate CIA activities in Australia. I have no doubt that these investigations will establish that the United States of America Central Intelligence Agency has engaged in covert activities in Australia over a long period which eventually led to the destruction of a legitimately elected government. The name of Australia will be added to a long list of other countries where CIA activities have damaged the good name of the United States of America. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Before calling the honourable member for Ballaarat I remind honourable members that this is the occasion of the honourable member's maiden speech. The usual courtesy of silence will be appreciated. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

<graphic href="098131197603025_23_1.jpg"></graphic>

It should be noted that the Australian charge relates to landing at an airport and to the use of enroute facilities. As illustrated by the schedule, many overseas charges are not calculated on the same basis as Australian charges. These overseas additional charges are so diverse that comparison with Australian charges is most complicated and possibly not very meaningful. 
The amounts used to calculate overseas charges are based on a sixty five per cent passenger load factor. The Australian charges do not alter with load factor variations. 
A couple of years ago representatives from the airlines came to see me complaining about increased charges. At that time there was a very serious over-capacity on airlines, particularly on the Pacific route. I was able to show them that if 
Qantas Airways Ltd, American Airlines Inc. and Pan Am eliminated parallel services from Australia they could have brought about upwards of $50 or $60 per passenger reduction in fares. They have not yet come back to see me about my proposition. They keep on bitching through the newspapers about high navigation charges. That was as real a test of their sincerity in an endeavour to reduce fares. As a result of a renegotiation of an agreement we had with the Government of the United States of America that Government is now looking more realistically at capacity in air routes between Australia and the United States with a view to getting away from serious over-capacity. It is something that should be eliminated as quickly as possible. 
Qantas is losing money because of the heavy discounting that is taking place in the aviation industry today. This is a serious problem to everyone involved. That is why the Labor Government went ahead and had regulations drawn up. They were ready on 1 1 November 1975, but the present Minister has allowed them to lie idle since. He has not been prepared to bring them in. He has not altered them. They give the Australian Government greater power and control over the discounting that takes place in the international airline industry where there is not only an over-capacity on the American services but also an over-capacity in many other fields. Some of the foreign airlines have adopted the attitude that it is better to put a bottom in a seat at half price than to carry that seat empty. This is the attitude they have been pursuing. I am pleased to say that at least, even at this late hour, the regulations have been brought in so that some attempt can be made to clean up this situation. 
A lot has been said about general aviation, which is the most heavily subsidised area of aviation in Australia today. The cost of general aviation to the Australian taxpayer is about $50m a year. The revenue received from it is about $9m a year. I repeat those figures: Expenditure $50m, revenue $9m. Once again there is an excess capacity in general aviation. There are just too many operators in this field. I cite some figures based on 1000 hours per annum utilisation. Air navigation charges represent between 2 per cent and 4 per cent of the total costs of general aviation, fuel costs represent 20 per cent, labour costs represent 20 per cent, engineering costs represent 34 per cent and interest and depreciation costs represent 22 per cent. These are the facts. How are air navigation charges crippling airline operators, whether they be international operators or the general aviation operators? I have a letter with me, dated 19 June 1975, from the General Aviation Association (Australia). It clearly shows that in 1972, 1973 and 1974 utilisation was on average 230 hours a year. In round terms that represents 2 return trips between Newcastle and Sydney per week by a charter operator. That gives a clear example of how this industry has such a heavy over-capacity. Why does the industry not have a bit of sense? If it wants free enterprise for companies it has to be prepared to pay for it. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Phillip. Why has the Prime Minister not reappointed the honourable member for Curtin to the ministry, in view of the information now given to the House by the Attorney-General? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. When did the Australian Embassy at Beirut in Lebanon close and cease operations in that country? Was there any lack of liaison between the Minister and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in regard to notification of the closure? What discussions, if any, were held between the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in regard to the closure? In view of the closure of the embassy at Beirut, what steps are being taken to protect young Australian children who are temporarily residing in Lebanon with grandparents or other relatives? 
-The Superannuation Bill 1976 which is now being debated replaces the Superannuation Bill 1975 which was introduced by the Labor Government on 1 5 May 1975. That Bill was opposed by the then LiberalNational Country Party Opposition in the House of Representatives as being over-generous, and on 5 June 1975 unacceptable amendments were made in the Senate by the Liberal-National Country Party Opposition there. On that same day the House of Representatives advised the Senate that it was not prepared to accept these amendments and referred the Bill back to the Senate for further consideration. On 1 1 June 1975 the Senate, which was under the control of the Liberal-National Country Party Opposition, decided that it would insist on the amendments. Finally, on 19 August 1975 the House of Representatives insisted that it disagreed with the amendments that were carried by the Senate and this had the effect of temporarily shelving the Bill. The events of 1 1 November 1975 then intervened. The  coup d'etat  occurred and the Labor Government was dismissed from office by the Governor-General. After the following election the Liberal and National Country Parties assumed the mantle of Government. 
In the period between the date when the Whitlam Government introduced the Bill, 15 May 1975, and the change of Government, the Liberal and National Country Parties have had some amazing changes of heart. On the one hand the Government has been pressured by the Commonwealth Public Service unions to agree to the provisions of the Bill. Contrary pressures came from the private employers organisations who could see claims arising from their employees for similar benefits. The then Opposition spokesman the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  is on record as saying:  ... the present scheme is a very good scheme with regard to the level of benefits provided. 
I invite honourable members to refer to page 2941 of  Hansard  of 28 May 1975 because it was during the honourable member's speech there recorded that he made that statement. Of course, he was referring to the old superannuation scheme. The honourable member for Curtin was prepared to concede that it was inadequate in one major and one minor respect. The major defect was that contributors in their final years of service were paying an unreasonably high percentage of their salary in superannuation contributions. Instances were quoted of employees paying as high as 53.5 per cent of their salary to the superannuation fund and it was the exception rather than the rule that contributors were paying amounts less than 25 per cent of their salary to the Superannuation Fund. The minor defect which was cited by the honourable member for Curtin was that employees did not have the op- portunity to convert part of their pension to a ump sum. However, the Liberal-Country Party Opposition opposed the Bill in relation to those aspects of the proposals which would, in its supporters' words, unreasonably widen the gap in superannuation provisions between the public and the private sectors. In other words, the Liberal-Country Party Opposition opposed the Commonwealth Public Service being used as a pacesetter in the matter of conditions. 
I might add that this was really a consistent attitude for the Liberal and Country Party supporters as they had adopted the same principle m the past in regard to salaries. I hope Commonwealth public servants will remember this next time they cast a vote. Apparently public servants ' memories were very short on 13 December 1975 as there must have been a high proportion of Commonwealth public servants throughout Australia who voted for the present LiberalCountry Party Government and quickly forgot the benefits which had been provided to them by the Whitlam Government. I quote but a few: Four weeks annual leave; improved long service leave; paternity leave; maternity leave; and an annual leave loading of 1 7  lh  per cent. They are a few of the conditions which the Whitlam Government improved in the Commonwealth Public Service. History has shown that the ordinary person invariably bites the hand that feeds him. It was ever thus. I suppose Commonwealth public servants or those in that section of the 
Public Service who voted for the LiberalCountry Party Government are no exception. I suppose that by now the former AttorneyGeneral and member for Canberra, the honourable Kep Enderby, has resigned himself to accepting the debt of ingratitude which was shown by Commonwealth public servants in his electorate of Canberra in tossing him out on 13 December 1975 and replacing him with a political nonentity in the person of the present honourable member for Canberra,  Mr Haslem. 
The then Liberal-Country Party Opposition, which is now the Government, through its then spokesman, the honourable member for Curtin, has unequivocally stated that the standard retiring age from the Public Service should be age 65. This was not withstanding that at least 40 per cent of the then contributors were and still are paying for age 60 retirement at considerably higher rates of contribution. I am afraid the encouragement to retire at age 65 has been carried into effect in this new legislation which is now before the House. Under the 1975 Bill introduced by the Whitlam Government contributors would have received the full superannuation retirement benefit at age 60. The Liberal-Country Party Bill allows retirement at 60 years of age but at a reduced superannuation pension. This will have the effect of encouraging Commonwealth public servants to remain in the Service to age 65. It will encourage older people to stay solely to receive a higher pension on retirement. It will lead to an older Public Service, a conservative Public Service, and a less efficient Public Service. 
One of the purposes of the Labor Government's Bill was to encourage older public servants to retire at age 60 to give greater opportunities to the younger public servants who had the drive, the vigour and the initiative to perform the increasingly harder tasks, particularly at the higher levels in the Public Service. The present Government has been very shortsighted in adopting its current attitude. What Australia badly needs is a more efficient Public Service, and the present Government's policy has prevented this occurring. The Labor Government's superannuation Bill provided for an additional pension of one-half of one per cent for every year of contributory service over 30 years with a maximum of an additional 5 per cent. The present Government has said that this would be too costly and it has decreased the percentage increase to one-quarter of one per cent which is exactly half of the Labor Government's proposals. The Labor Government's proposals were that the whole of the pension would be adjusted annually based on increases in the consumer price index. I emphasise that this increase was to be based on the whole of the pension. However the present Bill introduced by the LiberalNational Country Party Government allows for an increase in the consumer price index but only on the proportion of the pension which is paid by the Government. 
It is important to emphasise that in no other superannuation scheme in any public service in Australia does this niggardly provision apply. In every case the yearly increase is applied to the whole pension and not just the government proportion. It is also important to note that the Bill takes away a benefit which is currently in existence under the present superannuation scheme. The net result of the Liberal-National Country Party superannuation scheme is an overall increase in benefits of one per cent. I might point out that the proposed Labor Party superannuation scheme gave an overall increase in benefits of 13.7 per cent. 
The present Bill is an improvement on the Labor Government Bill in only one area, and that is the pension paid to a dependent spouse on the death of the contributor. Sixty-seven per cent of the contributor's pension will be paid to the surviving spouse, which is the same as provided for in the Labor Party Bill, but that pension will not now cease on remarriage of the spouse. I agree with and support that provision. I commend the Government for introducing it. It will prevent surviving spouses being forced to live in a de facto relationship to avoid losing a superannuation pension. One of the matters with which I am concerned is the provision of the Bill in regard to investment of the trust funds which are in reality the contributor's moneys. The investment provisions have been widely expanded. They will now allow the Fund to invest in the shares or debentures of any company incorporated in Australia or a building society. I counsel caution on this because I still have vivid memories of the debacle in the New South Wales Superannuation Fund. That fund made a large investment in H. G. Palmer and Co. Ltd which went into liquidation. To the best of my knowledge a considerable amount of money was lost by the New South Wales Superannuation Fund due to this misadventure. 
I trust that when this Bill becomes an Act the trustees of the contributors' money- and it is the contributors' money that the trustees are playing around with- will give serious consideration to how the funds are to be invested and not go into any fly-by-night companies, either by way of debentures or shares, solely because a high rate of investment is promised and high interest rates are payable. I think they should take note of the difficulties in New South Wales concerning H. G. Palmer. 
I note that no provision in this Bill allows the investment of the funds of the trust in credit unions. Credit unions, particularly in the Commonwealth Public Service, have done a tremendous amount of good for their members and I ask that the Government give consideration to allowing the investment of the superannuation funds- the contributors' funds- in credit unions. Possibly this can be done by regulation; I am not certain. I accordingly ask the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to give this suggestion serious consideration. The Labor Opposition is supporting this Bill in principle basically because it is the wish of the combined Public Service unions that this Bill be brought to fruition as quickly as possible and also to prevent hardship to a large number of Commonwealth public servants who are presently paying over-large superannuation contributions. However I stress that the Commonwealth Public Service unions should be consulted before the regulations are prescribed. What will happen to the assets of the present superannuation scheme? Presumably this matter will be determined by regulation in which case the Commonwealth Public Service unions, which are the representatives of the old contributors- the money belongs to the contributors- should be consulted before any firm decisions are made in the gazettal of the regulations. 
The Labor Party does not apologise for its desire to have an efficient, highly qualified and well paid Public Service. Public servants should enjoy good conditions, such as superannuation, which is dealt with in this Bill. The Labor Government Bill was not over-generous. As the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  stated today when leading for the Opposition, the present superannuation schemes for the State Public Services are in most cases still more generous than the scheme introduced by the present Liberal-National Country Party Government. Accordingly I have pleasure in supporting the amendment, which reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'while not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the Bill is deficient in that it removes some important benefits now applying under the current Superannuation Act, thereby reducing the overall value of benefits for existing pensioners and contributors'. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="098131197604064_44_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="098131197604064_45_2.jpg"></graphic>

In addition to these factors, whilst the motor car has had the general acceptance and endorsement of the community over the past 25 years, it would be a very game man indeed who would predict that future generations would adopt the same attitude. I mention this,  Mr Speaker,  because it is becoming increasingly obvious that the environment we live in, is emerging as a great political and humane issue and the motor car may play a different role in the next 25 years, related to the role it has played in the last 25 years. I believe that from what I have said members will get some idea of the difficulties that lay ahead for any car plans. 
As I said at the outset, the present plans included a marked degree of bi-partisanship. To reiterate the main points, we must monitor very closely the early development of these plans. More work should be done on consolidating our adjustment schemes in Australia, and we should not forget our responsibility to assist our regional neighbours to become economically independent. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. He is probably getting sick of questions by now. Is the Minister aware of the findings by the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange that a company by the name of Selected Mining Holdings Ltd- a company promoted by Patrick Partners by the way- in a period of 8 months reduced the $2m originally raised by way of shareholders' capital to $300,000? What legislation exists, or if it does not exist is any legislation proposed, to give some sort of a fighting chance to hapless investors who subscribe to this type of venture? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What renovations to buildings on his property, Nareen, have been made or are planned for the purpose of accommodating Commonwealth Police or other Government employees. 
At whose expense are such renovations being carried out. 
What is the cost to the Australian Government of the renovations. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation. Is the Minister aware that there has been a large number of complaints from patients in regard to both the quantity and the quality of the food that is now provided to patients at the Concord Repatriation General Hospital in New South Wales. Are those complaints the result of expenditure cuts ordered by the Government? Does the Minister agree that the food that is provided to patients at military and repatriation hospitals should be of good quality and sufficient in quantity? Will the Minister investigate these complaints and remedy the situation? 
Order! 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Will the Government's Medibank proposals reintroduce a 2 -class system of health care in Australia, whereby those above a certain income level will be forced into private health insurance schemes and the remainder left in Medibank? Will not the stigma attached to public ward patients re-emerge and will these people now find that they are forced back into second class status by this new hidden means test? 
Has the  Deputy  Prime Minister visited  Mr Wiley  Fancher at or near Atherton? Has  Mr Fancher  visited him at or near Murwillumbah? If so, when? 
-I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) On what date and at what place did the Premier of Queensland and  Mr Wiley  Fancher make their visit to him. 
Had he ever spoken to  Mr Fancher  by telephone before this visit; if so, when. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The table read as follows)- 

<graphic href="100131197608256_65_2.jpg"></graphic>

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to reports that more than 50 specialist shipbuilders at the marine division of Hawker De Havilland Australia Pty Ltd at Bankstown face the prospect of unemployment in October because of a tangle of red tape in Canberra? Is it a fact that an order for 15 work boats for the Royal Australian Navy which would enable production at the plant to continue has become so enmeshed in Treasury procedures that the company will have no alternative but to dismiss its staff? Can the Minister give an assurance that he will help to untangle the red tape and save the jobs of the 50 skilled operators? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the nature and extent in detail of Australia 's commitment at the World Food Conference held at Rome in 1974. 
To what extent and in what areas has Australia fulfilled the obligations it formally assumed at that Conference. 
Has Australia reneged on these undertakings. 
What action does the Australian Government propose to take on this question in the immediate future. 
As Australia is a leading cereals producer and could make a substantial contribution towards eliminating the injustices created and re-inforced in the world's food distribution systems by the predominance of the profit motive, is it the intention of the Government to condone these injustices. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that the Australian Government has decided to discontinue the funding of the anti-tuberculosis X-ray campaign? When will the Australian Government funding cease and how much a year will that save? Which States have announced that they will not continue the anti-tuberculosis X-ray campaign as a result of the Australian Government's decision to discontinue funding? Is this decision of the Australian Government yet another example of its mixed up priorities and lack of interest in the health of the Australian people? 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that negotiations have been going on for many years for the introduction of legislation to grant patent rights to the breeders of plants, which are commonly known as plant breeders' rights? Is it a fact that this type of patent legislation is in existence in most developed countries, including the United States of America, the United Kingdom, most European countries and New Zealand? Is it also a fact that this lack of patent protection is stultifying the commercial development of better breeds of plants, grain and horticultural products, to the disadvantage of Australian agricultural production? When can plant breeders expect some action from the Government in this respect? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to speak tonight in regard to proposals by Telecom Australia to emasculate the present successful telegram service which has for many years provided a fast, efficient and reliable service to the public I did inform the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that I would be raising this matter tonight and I should have thought that he would have been in the House to listen to me. At the present time there are throughout Australia 798 post offices with a teleprinter connected to the teleprinter reperforator and switching system which is known as 'TRESS'. This system has been in operation successfully since 1959. The advantage of the system is that from every one of the 798 post offices in Australia there is a direct entry into the Australiawide network. What Telecom Australia is proposing to do it to discontinue the direct teleprinter network service in respect of 258 post offices throughout Australia. The post offices affected are those which do not have 40 operations per day or 10 000 operations per year. It is proposed that the telegrams from those 258 post offices will be rung through to the nearest central post office which is connected to the TRESS network. 
It so happens that most of the affected post offices are in country areas where people rely on telegrams as their only means of fast communication. To date I have heard no complaint at all from the National Country Party supporters of this Government in regard to this lessening of service to their constitutents. If the National Country Party members of this Parliament are not interested in their constitutents I, as a Labor member of Parliament, must accept their mantle and attempt to protect the interests of country people. 
In Australia one person in six does not have a telephone and does not have much prospect of obtaining one. There are also very many people who cannot afford a telephone and if this proposal of Telecom Australia is instituted they will have a less efficient service than is now provided. I ask the Minister why this new system is being proposed. Surely it is not because Telecom is making insufficient profit. The recently published annual report of Telecom Australia for 1 975-76 disclosed a net profit of $ 1 52.4m. 
It is $ 152.4m which is not an inconsiderable sum. How can the Minister possibly allow this present efficient telegram service to be further emasculated? Surely those people who use the telegram service have been slugged enough already. 
Telegram charges were increased on 1 September 1975 by the Government of which I am proud to have been a member. They were increased from 6c per word to 9c per word. I have vivid memories of the present Government supporters when in Opposition decrying this increase. But what did they do when they became the Government? On 1 September 1976 the present Liberal-National Country Party Government increased the charges from 9c per word to 12c per word. But it did not stop at that. In April 1976 it introduced an additional charge of 40c for delivery to an addressee's street address. It is not everybody who can afford to have a phone connected. Not everybody can have a service connected because the services are not available in many areas. So much for good government. We are told time and time again that the Liberal-National Country Party Government provides good government. If this is an example of it I do not want to see a repetition of it in the future. I again ask the Minister, who still is not present in the chamber, to look seriously at these matters that I have raised and to prevent any further deterioration in what is now an efficient reliable telegram service. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. The Treasurer would be aware that during the term of the Labor Government legislation was introduced by the then Treasurer, the Honourable Frank Crean, to prevent Norfolk Island being used for income tax avoidance schemes and that that legislation prevented those abuses. Has the attention of the Treasurer been drawn to the report of the Norfolk Island Royal Commission, which indicated that tax avoidance schemes were still being practised on Norfolk Island, mainly in regard to Federal estate duty and State stamp duties? Will the Treasurer take urgent action to bring in appropriate legislation to prevent these abuses? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek your indulgence on this matter. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Is the Prime Minister aware that the young people of Australia have been the hardest hit by this Government's disastrous economic policies? 
This Government. Is he aware that in the western suburbs of Sydney more than 40 per cent of the registered unemployed are under 2 1 years of age? In fact in the Bankstown area of my electorate the figure is 42 per cent. Is he concerned at this indictment of his policies? Can he hold out any hope to school leavers, even at this late stage, that this malaise will be altered in the near future? 
-The. honourable member for Hindmarsh, as I see him, is addressing the House from his proper place. 
In conclusion I want to say that the Government cannot win this fight. It does not deserve to win it. It will be a bad Australia if it does win it. The trade union movement holds the key positions. It has among its members the electricians, the engine drivers and the firemen who can cut off the power. When supporters of the Government switch on their light switches they will see nothing. When they turn on their printing presses to print their rubbish in their newspapers against the workers nothing will come out the other end because there will be no power. Unionists will close down the wharves. They will close down everything- even the sewerage- that makes it possible for this country to tick. They will only ave to do it for 24 hours and this country will be in the midst of a revolution. It was in this kind of situation and in exactly the climate we have in the chamber tonight that people were saying in regard to people who wanted bread 'Let them eat cake'. They thought it could not happen in Paris, that it could not happen in Leningrad, that it that could not happen in Czechoslovakia and that it could not happen even in England- but it did. It can happen here and it will happen here if honourable members opposite go on to bring into the trade practices legislation penalties of $50,000 and the like for unionists who after all are trying to use the only thing they know- organised labour power- against the tremendous, almost unlimited power of the organised transnationals in this country. 
That is all I want to say. I hope that what I have said will cause the Government to think seriously about the steps it has taken. I hope that it will remember in the councils of its Party that this man Ellicott, not Fraser, and not the little person with glasses who is sitting at the tableHoward is the man who is more likely to lead the Government out of the swamp and the morass into which it has walked than anybody else I know. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Before I call the honourable member for Holt I would like to apologise to him for not calling him previously. I should have called him before theonourable member for Hindmarsh, but I did not see him rise. 
I wish to oppose - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the question be now put 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the increasingly high unemployment levels in my electorate and in the western suburbs of Sydney, particularly amongst those young people under 

 I I years of age? Has his attention been drawn to the manpower survey of 150 major Australian companies recently conducted by the Australian Industries Development Association? Is he aware that this survey reported that there was likely to be only a small growth in employment, if any at all, during 1977? In view of this, will the Prime Minister give consideration to reducing the age eligibility for age pensions, thereby encouraging early retirement and creating employment opportunities for young people? 
-In the short time available to me tonight I wish to highlight just one of the many cases in which this Government has its priorities wrong. I refer to the subject of assistance to handicapped persons. Within my electorate, at Revesby, there is a school called the Caroline Chisholm Special School which is attended by SO children who are fairly heavily retarded and who come from an area of approximately 100 square miles. Most of these children leave school at around 16 to 17 years of age with certain skills; but those skills are not sufficient for them to go out into the wide world and into industry. What is the opening for children such as these? This problem was causing real concern to the parents of these children. So what did they do? They thought among themselves: 'We have to set up a sheltered workshop'. The sheltered workshops in the area adjoining the school are completely full with partially retarded people, partially physically handicapped people and other disadvantaged members of the community. So the children who would be leaving this school would have nowhere to go. 
The parents did not just sit down and accept that situation. They decided to try to set up a sheltered workshop for the children from this school and for others. They wrote to the Department of Social Security and were advised that no funds were available until after 30 June 1979. 1 ask honourable members to remember that the parents received this advice in March 1977. The question was: What was to happen to the children who would leave school this year? That was the real problem. The parents discussed the matter with me. I realised where the fault lay. It lay not with the government departments, from which the parents were getting every assistance, but with the policy of this Government in its unthinking cutting of what I class as necessary expenditure. In view of the fact that the parents could not get any assistance under the Handicapped Persons (Assistance) Act through the Department of Social Security, they thought: We will have to sit the situation out until after 30 June 1979 and hope that maybe after that date some financial assistance will come'. 
After they discussed the matter with me, we tried to find out and to work out how we could set up some type of activity centre for these children when they left school, because they are not employable in the normal sense in outside industry. In nearly every case they would be on the invalid pension at the age of 16 years. We made inquiries through the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations to see whether there were any schemes within that Department which might be of assistance. We met a blank wall. That is no reflection on the officers of that Department, who gave me every assistance. 
Unfortunately they did not have any funds, projects or schemes which could be utilised. It seemed that there would be no hope for the future, certainly not until after 30 June 1979, to set up something for these children. But today there was a slight glimmer of hope after discussions with the secretary to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  who gave me a very attentive hearing and a great deal of attention. 
I had discussions with officers of the Department of Social Security who deal with handicapped children and they repeated the same message that I had been given in Sydney- no hope, no funds, no fault of theirs. They did not criticise the Government as they are good public servants, as I was. But due to the good offices of the secretary to the Minister for Social Security there is a faint glimmer of hope. There is such a thing as the Council for Child Care. We hope that even though there are no funds for handicapped persons we may be able to bring these children under the Council for Child Care and try to set up an activity centre so that they will not develop square eyes at home and so that there will be some hope for them in the future. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
In speaking to the Address-in-Reply, I would firstly apologise to  Her  Majesty the Queen for the shocking material with which she was presented by the Government and which formed the basis of her Speech to members of both Houses of the Parliament on 8 March 1977. Traditionally the address by the sovereign is a summary of the policies which the Government proposes to introduce. I was embarrassed for her, and I am certain that all clear thinking members of this Parliament were equally embarrassed. The Speech by the Queen, which took only 5 minutes to make, was a clear indication that this Government is bereft of policies, has negative ideas and has thrown its hands in the air because of its inability to manage the economy. Of course no blame can be attached to  Her  Majesty, for she must read what has been given to her by the Government, or, as she referred to it in her Speech, 'my Government'. No initiatives were announced. The only matter which could possibly be referred to as an initiative was a clear indication that social security and welfare programs which were initiated by the Labor Government would be axed still further and that people who were deserving of assistance were to be deprived still further of a reasonable degree of assistance. Both the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  subsequently confirmed this in speeches made to the inner sanctums of the Liberal Party of Australia and reprinted in the Press -just a further example of what is known as the conditioning process. 
I could almost detect a blush on the Queen's countenance when she read, as she was bound to do, this statement by the Government: 
My Government's economic program is designed to overcome unemployment. 
Let us have a cold, hard look at the realities of the situation in regard to unemployment. The official Commonwealth Employment Service figures at the end of February 1977 showed 346 668 people unemployed, which is 5.7 per cent of the estimated labour force of 6. 1 million. This is a substantial increase on the official unemployment figures both at the end of February 1976 and at the end of February 1975. This Government has consistently sought to blame the unemployment rate on the activities of the Labor Government, but this Government has been in office for 15 months. The realities of the situation are that since it came to office the unemployment rate has continued to rise. Unfortunately, if the Government continues to maintain its existing economic policies, the unemployment rate will rise still further. The present unemployment figure is the highest since the days of the Great Depression in the 1930s. Let there be no mistake about it. The ball is right in this Government's court. I am reminded of a statement on the wall above and behind the desk of a politician of another era. It was 'The buck stops here'. I suggest to the Prime Minister that he put that sign on the wall behind his desk. He cannot keep passing the buck, for the simple reason that the people of Australia are not fools. The people know, as the gallup polls show, that this Government has failed to live up to its promises to turn on the lights- that well known phrase which it exploited during the last election. For the good of Australia, the Government should resign and go to the people for their verdict. It will not, because it knows that the result would be its own decimation- the fate that recently befell the Indian Government. 
The greatest tragedy of the unemployment situation is that which affects the young people of Australia- those under the age of 2 1 years. In my electorate almost 50 per cent of the total unemployed are under the age of 2 1 years. I have no desire to make political capital out of such a tragedy, and it is a tragedy. I recently asked in this Parliament a serious question of the Prime Minister. I asked him to give serious consideration to reducing the age eligibility for pensions to encourage early retirement of people from the work force, thereby creating employment opportunities for young people. There are many people over the age of 60 years who would willingly retire if they became eligible for the age pension at an age earlier than the present 65 years for male persons. The Prime Minister rejected my suggestion out of hand, which showed his callous disregard for the plight of the young people of Australia. I make an appeal to the Government members whose electorates adjoin mine, although they are not in the House at the moment. Possibly they are listening in their rooms to what I say. I make an appeal to them to try to induce this Government, which is their Government, to do something real to fight from within their own Party the cause of the young unemployed and to forget about their Party loyalties, whatever that expression may mean. My appeal is particularly addressed to the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  and the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie).  The honourable member for Cook is now in the chamber. I note that he is listening intently to what I am saying. I appeal especially to him. We are dealing with people's lives, I remind the honourable member for Cook, not just petty Party politics. 
The thing which disgusts me is the description which Government members apply to the young unemployed. They mouth the words 'dole bludgers'. What a derisive term; what a way to describe our young unemployed who are unemployed through no fault of their own, the fault lying fairly and squarely on the shoulders of members of the Liberal-National Country Party Government who have mismanaged the economy. How many members of the Government have ever spoken to young unemployed people? If any have, have they ever noted the air of hopelessness and despair which is evident among them? When despair takes over their spirit dies. If this Government will not resign and face the people, in the name of all that is decent it should try to do something to rectify this shocking situation. 
Another matter about which I wish to speak and to highlight is the aid, or more correctly the lack of aid, going from Australia to undeveloped countries. Australia by comparison with developing countries is in a most fortunate situation. We are a developed country despite the short period of our existence. We have bountiful supplies of natural resources. We have the facility for becoming the natural granary of the Asian region. We have surpluses of most primary products. We have cattle in abundance. Yet there are millions of people in the Asian region who are starving and who do not know whence their next meal is coming. 
There are people in our community who do not know, or do not care, about their starving brothers. I believe it is our duty as legislators to inform our own people of the plight of the people from developing countries. It is a simple matter of economics that if we as democratic people ignore the plight of those who are less fortunate than ourselves someone else will take our place and fill the vacuum. Is it any wonder that communism has taken over in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia and that it is only a matter of time before it takes over in Thailand? The lesson is there for all of us to see. If we ignore the plight of those people we do so at our own peril. It is a trite saying that an empty belly knows no loyalty. Even if it is only from the point of view of self preservation, we must help the people from the developing countries of our region. 
Financial aid to developing countries has not escaped the cutbacks in expenditure of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  If we are to believe his predictions there is even worse to come. However, what really sickens me is the useless slaughter and burial of surplus cattle which, as we all know, have occurred within recent times in Australia. As an Australian representative at the Inter-Parliamentary Union conference held in Madrid late last year I was ashamed to have to admit that Australia was pursuing this useless policy when there was so much hunger in the world. I have just received a letter, as no doubt have other honourable members, from an organisation known as For Those Who Have Less. It was written by the  President  of that organisation,  Mr L.  S. Reid, a respected former Liberal Party member of this Parliament for the electorate of Holt. I seek leave to have the letter incorporated in  Hansard.  I have the permission of  Mr Reid  for this course of action to be taken. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="104131197703234_55_0.jpg"></graphic>

-Is the Prime Minister aware of the violation of human rights which is still taking place in the Philippines under the system of martial law? Is he aware that in January this year 74 of the 82 Catholic bishops of the Philippines signed a pastoral letter for reading in all churches denouncing the Philippines Government for deporting missionaries, arresting priests and lay workers, harassing newly formed Christian communities and abusing minority groups? Does he agree that violation of human rights in extreme rightist controlled countries such as the Philippines is equally as reprehensible as the violation of human rights in communist countries? Finally, will the Government use its best endeavours in the appropriate forum to prevent the violation of human rights in the Philippines? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Has he received a donation of $2 from  Mrs Jill  Finnane of 75 Arab Road, Padstow, N.S.W., in support of Australia contributing to the Common Fund for the UNCTAD Integrated Program for Commodities. 
) If so, what is to happen to this donation of $2. 
What does the Government intend to do about the Common Fund. 
Will the Government give wholehearted support to the UNCTAD Integrated Program for Commodities in view of the fact that it is an international effort to overcome the injustices and inequalities of the existing trade patterns and mechanisms. 
I wish to raise a matter in the adjournment debate tonight on which, unfortunately, I was not allowed to speak earlier this evening. It was in regard to a statement made by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  on family reunions involving East Timorese. I would like to quote to the Minister part of a verse from The Merchant of Venice and commend it to him. It states: 
The quality of mercy is not strained; 
It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven 
Upon the place beneath: 
It is twice blest; 
It blesseth him that gives and him that takes. 
In referring to this passage, I am not necessarily putting the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in the same category as that well known character, Shylock. But when one hears from the Minister statements such as he has made tonight with regard to what is a real issue- the issue of Timorese people and their reunion with their relatives who are presently in Australia- he shows a shocking lack of sympathy with the problems confronting these people. For a start, the statement which he made referred to these people who come from East Timor as evacuees. There is a very great difference in the terminology 'evacuee' and 'refugee'. I do not know the reason the Minister referred in the statement to these people from East Timor as evacuees. The surprising aspect is that the communique issued after the visit of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to Indonesia in 1976 referred to these people as refugees. There may not seem to be a great deal of difference in the words 'evacuees' and 'refugees', but there is a difference. I know how the Public Service operates and I know the constraints which will be placed on people who are classed as evacuees rather than refugees. I do not refer only to the people from East Timor who are presently in Australia and who are seeking some reconciliation with very close relatives, in some cases, from East Timor. 
The Minister, in making the statement tonight, announced that there would be restrictions on who would be allowed into Australia. These restrictions would be by way of sponsored nominations which are acceptable under the family reunion policy. To my surprise and, I think, to the surprise of most honourable members who expected that the Minister would be announcing some widening of the normal criteria for people coming to Australia, he did not do so. All that he has done with regard to those people from East Timor who are presently in Australia and who are trying to get their relatives out from East Timor is to put exactly the same conditions on them as are put on people from any other country who are coming into Australia. 
-As the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  says, and he is probably one of the better speakers in this Parliament, that is a callous attitude. The acceptable categories, which will be considered as announced by the Minister, are spouses, minor dependent children and parents of Australian residents. Those are exactly the same conditions which apply to anybody coming into Australia, whether an evacuee or a refugee. Those relatives who have employment skills and experience which are recognised and in demand in Australia are also acceptable. I ask the Minister whether he will apply the same conditions to the families of refugees- and they are refugees- presently in Australia as he applied to the people from wartorn Lebanon. If those same conditions are applicable as applied to the Lebanese people, there will be a far greater entry into Australia from East Timor of those people whose relatives are already in Australia. If he does that, I will not liken him to Shylock. 
-We are discussing the Australian Development Assistance Agency (Repeal) Bill. To put matters in their proper perspective, I think it is important to go back to 12 March 1974 when the Australian Development Assistance Agency Bill was introduced by the then Prime Minister, now the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  In looking at this measure today which repeals the Bill which was introduced by the Prime Minister in the days of the Labor Government, I think it is important also to take note of some of the remarks which were made by the then Prime Minister when he introduced the Bill. I quote from page 278  of Hansard of  12 March 1974. He said: 
The purpose of the Bill is to establish a Development Assistance Agency to have responsibility for the administration of all of Australia's bilateral aid and our participation in all programs of multilateral aid to developing countries. 
He also said: 
The Agency to be established under the legislation will complete this process of unification by absorbing aid functions carried out by other departments including the Department of Education and the Treasury. 
The decision to recognise the administration of our economic aid programs is based on the view that improvements in aid must be affected in almost all aspects of our aid endeavours- in the machinery for formulating policy, in ensuring greater attention to the welfare and distributive effects of our aid, in evaluating the effectiveness of our various schemes, in bringing greater expertise into our staffing arrangements and in more directly associating the community with the program. 
We then go to 2 April 1 974. The then spokesman for the Opposition on Foreign Affairs, the present Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  said, as reported in  Hansard. 
The Opposition supports the Australian Development Assistance Agency Bill. 
He further said: 
We do not want a bureaucratic morass which bogs down the implementation of our aid programs. We want to see that aid becomes more effective than it has been in the past. 
He then spoke of the problems of the developing countries. Remember that the present Minister for Foreign Affairs was at that stage supporting the Bill which we, as a Labor government, had introduced. He said: 
After all, developing countries in the world have never faced a greater crisis than they are facing at present, not merely because of the energy crisis, not merely because of oil prices, not merely because of oil inflated prices, but also because of the difficulties that many countries have with nitrogenous fertilisers. 
He also spoke of what was then a real tragedy, and still is, in the world. He referred to the situation in Ethiopia and the countries of that region. He said: 
There are stark photographs of the effect of the famine in Ethiopia . . . The famine in Ethiopia and the appalling situation extending beyond Ethiopia have attracted miserable and paltry assistance from the Government. 
He was then referring to the Labor Government. Still referring to the Labor Government, he said: 
The Government's stance is even less creditable when it proclaims concern but it is not accompanied by sufficient assistance, which this country can afford. 
I would like the House to remember those words because the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his second reading speech on 1 7 March 1 977, made statements which are completely foreign to the statements he made then. He suggested that a country such as Australia must pull in its horns on overseas aid. Later I shall read more of what he said in his second reading speech. 
As the Leader of the Opposition said today, it was a shameful exercise for this Government to dismantle the Australian Development Assistance Agency. I make the statement that once again this Government has shown its complete hypocrisy. When the Bill to introduce this Agency was debated in this House the Liberal and Country Parties, then in Opposition, not only supported it but voted for it. They were elected to government on a lot of specious promises. One of them was on overseas aid. At the time of the election in December 1975 the conscience of the people of Australia had been pricked by the situation in the developing countries. There was a large measure of support forthcoming to any government which would offer to do what could be classed as the right thing by these less developed countries. Consequently, it probably made good political sense for the Liberal and Country Parties, which had then not been elected to government, to support a much greater measure of assistance by way of overseas aid to the developing countries. 
One must look at the facts in all situations, particularly the situations applying at present. When one looks at the figures on overseas aid, it is important to look back a little before 1 972, when we became a government, to see the extent to which one can place any credence on the words the Government expressed during the election campaign in December 1975. Compare that with what it has done since it has been in government. These figures are factual. They are taken from replies by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to 2 separate questions by the Leader of the Opposition, which were printed in  Hansard  on 7 September 1976 and 11 November 1976. The figures relate to financial years. Even in the days of the McMahon Government, in 1970-71 the percentage of gross national product devoted to overseas aid for developing countries was 0.56 per cent. In 1971-72 it was 0.55 per cent. In 1972-73 it was 0.53 per cent. That was not our Budget year. In our Budget year, 1973-74, we maintained the figure at 0.52 per cent. In 1974-75 the Labor Government increased the figure to 0.56 per cent. In 1975-76, in the year of the Liberal-Country Party Government, the figure had dropped to 0.5 per cent. In 1976-77, which is the present financial year, the figure has dropped to 0.49 per cent of the gross national product. Bear in mind that when comparing these gross national product percentage figures we need to look to the target figure set by the United Nations General Assembly, which is 0.7 per cent. Certainly other countries do not have as good a percentage figure as Australia has, but the point I am making is that the present Government is not doing all that it could be doing for the people of these less developed countries. 
I have no wish to hear any specious arguments from the Minister or other members of the Government. Some specious arguments were voiced before I spoke today. Excuses were made as to why additional moneys cannot be granted for overseas aid. We have heard comments by various members of the Parliament who have spoken so far. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  said that the gap between the rich and the poor, in the less developed or developing countries, has been growing. He also said that Australia has nothing of which to be ashamed. We are a developed country. But compared with other developing countries Australia is a rich country. I am afraid that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is indicted by statements he made when he was in opposition in regard to developing countries in Asia in particular, and in Africa. I referred earlier to what the then Opposition spokesman on foreign affairs said on 2 April 1974 about the famine in Ethiopia and his reference to the stark photographs of the effect of the famine- no doubt a very histrionic statement. But let us look at the facts. In his speech he said: 
What is the present situation in developing countries? I have touched on some aspects of this. To put it bluntly it is disastrous. 
He also said: 
The gap between the living standards of the developed countries and the developing countries as well as the gap between the living standards of the rich and the poor in the developing countries continues to widen, despite the efforts so far directed towards closing it. 
But what do these people who mouth such pious platitudes when in opposition do when they get into government? That is the real test of their sincerity. If the Government wants to put its sincerity into action I suggest that it does a little more for the developing countries than it has done up to date. 
The Australian Labor Party when in government certainly had no reason to hang its head in shame for what it did for the developing countries. Assistance by the Labor Government to developing countries in the South Pacific region increased by 400 per cent during the period 1 972 to 1975. Compare that contribution with what happened under previous Liberal-Country Party governments. As I have pointed out, less money has been spent on overseas aid by this Government than was spent by the previous Government even when measured as a percentage of gross national product, and that is not putting the amount in real terms. 
I noted that the Minister seeks to blame the recipient countries for the fact that the allocated moneys are not getting to them. What are the real reasons? I suggest that one of the reasons the allocated money- I am not referring to the money that is expended- has not been getting into the recipient countries has been the staff cuts which have been made in what is now the Australian Development Assistance Bureau which is taking the place of the Australian Development Assistance Agency established by the Labor Government. This point was raised earlier this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition. The Department of Foreign Affairs official publication  Backgrounder  of 18 March 1977 draws attention to this problem, and frankly what it states is nothing to be proud about. The publication states: 
The new structure - 
That is the Bureau- has resulted in substantial savings. Staff numbers were reduced from 439 to 335. 
Let us get our priorities right. Is it more important to have a cut in the staffof the Agency, or the Bureau which now administers our foreign aid programs, or to get our priorities right and ensure that money that is allocated finally finds its way into the hands of the recipient countries? I think that all reasonable thinking people would come to the one response on that, namely, that every avenue should be used by the Government to facilitate the transfer of the money which is allocated by this Parliament, small as it is, into the hands of the recipient countries, particularly in our region, some of which are almost on the point of starvation. I refer in particular to Bangladesh. I made a speech in this House on Wednesday of last week in which I made pointed reference to the millions of cattle that are being shot and buried in Australia. It is an indictment not only of this Government but also of the people who shoot and bury cattle that this practice should be allowed to continue when the people of the neighbouring countries of Bangladesh, India and Pakistan are crying out for cattle and for food. 
I am concerned that there seems to be a tendency possibly in all parties in this place to play politics on an issue which should be beyond party politics. We should remember that we should not be playing politics when people's lives are at stake. In particular I refer to the people to our far north, in Asia and in the Indian sub-continent. Most of us who have seen documentaries of conditions in these areas must shudder when we realise that society could allow this to happen. I have said before in this Parliament, and I will say it again, that even if we do not give aid to these countries out of pure Christian charity and nothing else we should do so out of self-interest. If we as a developed country do not assist those developing countries we will find that the communist bloc will fill the vacuum. In particular, the proponents of the Government who are firm believers in the capitalist system will find that they will be destroyed because of their lack of assistance to those developing countries. 
I would like to direct some criticism to developed countries, some of which I do not think should be exempt from criticism. Developed countries have many shortcomings. Quite frankly, I am sickened by the fact that economic aid given by developed countries such as the United States of America and others is paltry compared with the money that they spend on armaments. I think that the amount of money allocated by the United States in overseas aid works out at about 0.27 per cent of that country's gross national product. This is a very small percentage compared with the percentage that that country spends on armaments. The same criticism applies to the developing countries. Countries such as Indonesia in particular would be far better served by spending what money they have on developing their own economic aid programs rather than on armaments which will lead to their own destruction. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and is supplementary to a question asked of him by the honourable member for Blaxland on 20 April 1977. I ask whether the Prime Minister was correctly reported in the issue of  Country Life  newspaper of 25-3 1 August 1976 in which it was stated that when he was asked by a representative of that newspaper the question: 
Would he like the powers to negotiate price and wage freezes with employers and unionists?  he replied: 
No country which has adopted hard, fixed controls of that kind have found them successful. What has tended to happen under compulsion is that pressures get built up and explode when the freeze lifts. 
Does the Prime Minister now retract that statement? Is he only playing politics on this whole issue? 
-I beg your pardon? 
-It had better be a point of order. 
The honourable member for Maranoa, a member of the National Country Party, talked about rural roads. He proudly raised the question of the increase in expenditure. Yes, there is to be an increase in expenditure of 8'/2 per cent in money terms in the coming year. In real terms that means 3 per cent to 6 per cent less than last financial year. That is the real measure of this Government's action. There is a real cutback in capital works and I want to deal with that in some depth in my contribution tonight. 
Quite clearly, the Government is pinning its hopes for a revival on 2 factors: It is relying on the continued recovery of the residential sector and it is looking for a rapid expansion of the mining sector to boost the new capital works programs. In my view, both these hopes are groundless, for reasons I shall develop. In the first place, the growth in the residential sector, while strong, has shown signs of tapering off. In 1975-76, it grew very strongly- about 20 per cent in real terms over the year. The rate of growth was strong in the first half of the present financial year, but it is now showing signs of levelling off. The growth for the whole year is expected to be just under 10 per cent which is a sharp drop over that of the previous year. With monetary policy very tight at the moment there is no reason to expect a drastic spurt in growth in 1 977-78. 
In the non-residential sector the position is much more grim. Total spending is expected to decline by about 4 per cent to 5 per cent in real terms. This follows on the fall of one per cent in 1975- 76. Short term prospects are bleak and we can expect real output to remain depressed in 1977-78. It seems that this will happen although private non-residential construction will pick up by around 10 to 15 per cent in real terms in 1977-78. The private sector accounts for only one-third of non-residential spending. If the public sector declines by 5 per cent or even more as now seems likely, the best that can be expected for the industry is no growth- and I stress that. It may even decline further- by as much as 4 per cent or 5 per cent. The output of the entire industry, both residential and non-residential is expected to decline by one per cent in 1976- 77- about 4 per cent in real terms below the output of 1973-74.I stress that the output for 1976-77 is expected to be about 4 per cent below the output of 1973-74. That is how depressed the industry is. 
At this stage the prospects for any sustainable recovery are not good. We know that Budget strategy is dictating that there will be no increase in capital outlays. The impact of this strategy on public capital expenditure will probably mean a decline in real terms in activity in the industry. While a hard Budget holds down spending in the non-residential sector, tight monetary policy will curb activity in the residential sector. Because the level of output of the industry has declined over the past 3 years, the capacity of the industry is being eroded. This is having a severe effect on an industry which grew at an average annual rate of some 6 per cent through the 1960s. In 1976 unemployment in the industry averaged about  5½  per cent compared with  4½  per cent for the total work force. The relative rates were 1¾ per cent in 1974 and 2 per cent; now they are  5½  per cent and per cent respectively. In November 1976, the industry accounted for about 11 per cent of the total unemployed in the economy, well above its share of the labour force which is about  8½  per cent in direct employment terms. Between November 1975 and November 1976, the total labour force increased by only about 6000 persons. Over the same period, the labour force in the construction industry fell by approximately 6000 persons, or about one per cent of the total construction work force. This shows how the capacity of the industry is being eroded and how deep-seated is the malaise in the industry. 
I have referred briefly to the impact of the f&gt;resent Budget and I want to develop this point a l ittle further. When the present Budget was formulated the Government set out to hold outlays at the existing level in real terms. Revised inflation estimates now suggest that in fact real outlays will decline by at least 3 per cent to 4 per cent. Capital outlays took the brunt of the cuts. They fell from 21 per cent of total outlays in 1975-76 to 16 per cent in 1976-77. This reduction would have been increased by the revised estimate for inflation. Both major items of capital outlays fell in real terms. Loan Council contributions fell by some 6 per cent to 8 per cent and specific purpose capital payments fell by some 1 8 per cent to 20 per cent. The budgeted capital outlays of both the Commonwealth Budget and the non-Budget sectors increased by about 4 per cent in money terms in 1976-77 over the previous year. This is a real decline of 6 per cent to 8 per cent in capital outlay. 
These actions of the Government are mainly responsible for an expected 4 per cent to 5 per cent drop in total non-residential building and construction spending in 1976-77. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has told us that outlays will be held at a zero rate of real growth in 1977-78. This will mean some juggling because the Government is committed to increases in certain areas. For example, real defence spending is to increase by about 5½ per cent and education by some 2 per cent a year. This means that about 20 per cent of the outlays will increase by about 4 per cent in real terms. In turn, this can be done only if there is a cut of around one per cent in the other 80 per cent of outlays. Again this must lead to further cuts in capital works spending and, I might say, further unemployment will be created. 
We can get a clue to the extent of these cuts from the recent statement by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on road funds- which I stressed earlier- that there will be an8½ per cent increase in money terms in the coming year. Yet this will mean in real terms a cut of 3 per cent to 6 per cent. This strongly implies that the capital outlays are being trimmed back hard to achieve the target of zero real increases in total Budget outlays. The Budget measures for 1976-77 were largely responsible for the depressed state of the building and construction industry and the economy as a whole. We are now looking to a coming Budget which will be even more severe. The exTreasury man who is to follow me in this debate should echo those words. The 1977-78 Budget will certainly bring a further decline in the levels of activity and employment in the building industry. This will be due solely to Government policy. It will be impossible for the apparent revival in the residential sector to redress the balance. 
Turning to the other aspects of the economic policy, it is possible that the Government is looking to the effects of devaluation to stimulate a recovery. To my mind this is based on false reasoning. Agriculture, mining and the import competing sectors of manufacturing gain from a devaluation. The size of the national cake stays much the same after a devaluation. This means that the gains made by some sectors can be achieved only from the losses of other sectors. For manufacturing, mining and agriculture to gain other sectors such as transport, construction and services must lose. I hope the House understands that aspect. It can be argued that the construction industry will benefit because those sectors which have benefited from devaluation will undertake new capital investment. But this depends on a number of factors. It depends on whether gains made by agriculture, mining and manufacturing can be maintained. This in turn rests very much on the wages policies and whether pressure for higher wages builds up in areas where profits increase because of devaluation. It depends also on the pattern of investment in these 3 sectors. Construction investment is not significant in agriculture, which has a high plant and equipment content. In the past 4 years only about 22 per cent of the investment spending in manufacturing was on construction. There is little chance of any great boost to construction from this source. 
In mining the proportion of construction was about 46 per cent. That means that the best prospects for a boost lie in mining. That partly explains the great stress that the Government is putting on the mining industry. Some very optimistic statements about mining investment have been made in the Parliament and some by outside consultants. I would warn against any undue optimism about a recovery in the building and construction industry or the economy as a whole that is based on the mining industry. Mining is a tremendously capital intensive industry; it does little to create new jobs. In terms of providing new infra-structure we must have doubts about what it will do in terms of job creation and in terms of reviving the construction industry. 
The technology of the mining sector is changing very rapidly. We are not likely to see again the traditional sort of infrastructure that was built in the last mining booms. If the north-west shelf is developed it could have the effect of reducing the existing proportion of construction in mining investment. Furthermore, new mining ventures are likely to have a much higher component of imported infrastructure. The chances for local construction and engineering works will not be as great as they have been in the past. New mining techniques mean fewer workers. That in turn means fewer homes and fewer community facilities in mining towns. 
The whole trend is towards a much more modest provision of infrastructure. Townships such as Mount Newman, Mount Tom Price, Dampier and Mary Kathleen will be things of the past. Furthermore, mining and manufacturing together account for only 30 per cent to 35 per cent of the private non-residential construction expenditure. If we add in the public sector, they account for slightly more than 10 per cent of the total non-residential construction expenditure. To increase the total non-residential construction spending by 1 per cent would mean that construction spending in the mining and manufacturing area would have to rise by about 10 per cent. That gives some idea of the level of investment in the mining industry that would be needed to have any significant impact on the building and construction industry. For that reason we must be very sceptical about a mining boom reversing the fortunes of the construction industry and, I stress, the economy as a whole. 
To touch briefly on one other point, housing has always borne the brunt of monetary policy in Australia because it is a highly credit intensive industry. That applies in the present monetary context and we are looking to further tightening of the monetary policy. Interest rates are tending upwards. We must expect the May loan raising to be a failure, as was the February loan unless the interest rate offered is increased. Private sector interest rates have been tending upwards. Apart from interest rates, monetary policy has had an adverse effect on the supply of funds for housing. Strong directives from the Reserve Bank of Australia to lending institutions have bitten hard into finance for housing. That must restrain the rate of growth of the residential sector in the months ahead. For all those reasons, we must be pessimistic about a recovery in the building and construction industry that is based on a firm recovery in the home building sector.  (Extension of time granted).  The stimulus must come from the Australian Government. It can best be applied by increasing funds for capital works spending through the Budget. 
Unfortunately- I stress this- the Government has backed itself into a corner. The Government has cut off its options. Not only has it made commitments to higher spending in some areas, it has also made some extravagant business tax concessions which will cut the growth of revenue very sharply in 1977-78. The stock valuation adjustment will take at least $400m, and the investment allowances will take at least $500m. In addition, the Government's decision to index personal taxes means it will forgo at least another $ 1,000m in revenue. I want to stress that we now have a Government which is committed to losses in revenue of about $2,000m with a deficit running at $2,600m at the time of the last Budget. The story is that the Government wants to cut that by at least $ 1,000m. Therefore, I question its options. I believe that the Government will cut public works expenditure which will mean more unemployment in this country. It will mean that we will not have any real growth in the public sector, the sector where we really need it. We need more houses, more roads and better sewerage services. These are the things we need but this Government is not meeting these needs and it has closed off its options. 
I want to raise the question of personal income tax indexation but not in a critical sense. I support the concept of indexation, but I oppose very strongly business tax concessions to the private sector of around $ 1,000m. Certain segments of the private sector are already receiving too much. There has been a diversion from the wage earners and the public sector to the private sector. This Government has diverted huge resourceseven more resources will be diverted this year- to the private sector. The movement of resources has been faster in this last financial year than ever in the history of this Parliament. Never before has there been such a movement of resources from the wage earners and the public sector to the private sector. The public sector and the wage earners are subsidising the private sector. When I refer to the private sector I mean very wealthy private sector- big business. I refer to the 400 companies out of the 200 000 companies that submit a tax return-that one-fifth of one per cent of companies that shares nearly 50 per cent of the profit of all companies. This Government represents big business and that where it is diverting our resources. This philosophy has reduced the Government's options at a time when it is dedicated to reducing the Budget deficit and restoring the economy. 
As I have said, I believe that the Government is trying to cut the Budget by at least another $ 1,000m, and that will pose an enormous problem. The Government has got itself into a bad fiscal jam. Until it revises its policies, one of the main victims will be the building and construction industry. The present plight of this industry is a very important reason for supporting the motion moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  In particular, phasing out of business tax concessions would free funds which could be directed to increased capital spending and public works, thus creating employment. Easing monetary policy, while keeping it within the rate of inflation plus growth, would provide more resources for the residential home building sector. I urge these measures on the Government in the strongest possible terms. I hope that this Government moves away from the sectional policy that it supports of diverting funds from the many to the very wealthy few. If we are going to develop this country in the best way, then I suggest that the proposition put forward by the Opposition should be accepted. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to a report in today's Sydney  Sun  newspaper quoting a  Mr Victor  Marchetti, a former assistant to the executive director of the United States Central Intelligence Agency, as saying that the CIA has provided funds to the Liberal and National Country Parties in Australia for at least the past 10 years? Is the Prime Minister aware that the source of this information is reported as being  Mr Richard  Stallings, a former CIA official in Australia and a personal friend of the present  Deputy  Prime Minister? Finally, in view of the grave nature of these allegations, will the Prime Minister ascertain whether any money originating from the CIA has been received by his Party in the past 10 years and make that information available to the Parliament as a matter of urgency? 
-In speaking to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill 1977 I should say that it has some rather complex issues, some rather controversial issues, and there are also some rather simple ones. I think it is preferable in all things to deal first with the simple issues. I am pleased to see that the Government has decided to allow as a tax deduction gifts to the Queen Elizabeth II Silver Jubilee Trust For Young Australians. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced in the House that he was setting up the Trust as a memorial to  Her  Majesty the Queen in her Silver Jubilee year, it brought commendation from both sides of the Parliament. I know just how difficult it is to get a government, whichever government is in power, to insert in the Income Tax Assessment Act a specific provision to exempt any gifts. I have tried in the past, even in the days when my own Government was in power and my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  was Treasurer, and I did not succeed then. But in view of the fact that this is such a worthy cause, apparently the Government has seen fit to allow these gifts as a tax deduction. It is a start in the right direction. I can call to mind many representations which have been made in the past by other honourable members, and perhaps now that the Government has decided to ease the way in respect of this fund it will give consideration to allowing a tax deduction for some other worthwhile funds. In the past gifts to those funds have not been allowed as a tax deduction merely on the grounds that the recipients of the benefits of moneys raised through such funds happened to live overseas, and that is something to which the Government might give consideration in the future. 
Another quite simple matter, and one with which the Opposition certainly does not quarrel, is the provision in this Bill for the exemption to employers of rebates which are paid to them under the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprenticeships Full-time Training Scheme, known as CRAFT. A practice which seems to have grown within the Public Service in recent years is that everything goes by a trade name or by initials. We hear about CRAFT and TEAS and UNESCO, a whole series of things. Together with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, I sit on the Public Accounts Committee of the Parliament and when members of the Commonwealth Public Service give evidence before us they speak in this terminology which is common to them. It is often necessary to ask them to define what they mean, and finally we get the answer and know what they are talking about. The same situation applies in regard to the training scheme known as CRAFT. The Bill also provides that the special allowances which are payable to apprentices under the scheme will be subject to pay-as-you-earn income tax deductions in the same way as allowances paid under similar schemes. The Opposition certainly does not quarrel with that. There is no reason why payments made under the CRAFT scheme should not be subject to tax if similar payments are taxable under other schemes. 
I am pleased also to note that at last the Government has seen the light in regard to the reintroduction of the system for the collection of company tax by instalments. As members of the House would know, the system was temporarily suspended by the present Government m 1976 when the corporate sector supposedly was having serious liquidity and cash flow problems. This Bill reintroduces the system of collection of company taxes by instalments, although there are slight variations from the original scheme introduced by the Labor Government in 1973. The present Bill provides that the first company tax instalments in respect of income for the income year 1976-77 will become payable on 15 November 1 977 and the second instalment on 1 5 February 1978. The balance, that is the final instalment, will not become payable before 30 April 1978 at the earliest. I think that the payment of company tax by instalments is a good thing, not only because the companies can plan out their cash flow a lot better if they know they are not going to be hit towards the end of the financial year with a large sum to pay out for company tax, but also because they can even out the payment over the year. That assists not only the company but also the revenue in view of the amount of money which is available to the Government and which finally finds it way back into the community. 
I am afraid that I do not agree with the comments of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  in regard to the amendments in the Bill relating to the taxing of pensions paid under superannuation arrangements for members of the defence forces. Quite frankly, I cannot see the difference between the case of LieutenantCommander Goodfellow, who apparently pranged his plane and was invalided out of the Services, and that of an officer of the Commonwealth Public Service or a person who is contributing to any other superannuation scheme. After all, Lieutenant-Commander Goodfellow was contributing to a superannuation scheme within the defence services. I cannot see the difference between the circumstances applying to him and those applying to a person in the Commonwealth Public Service, say, who is invalided out of the Public Service due to an accident on the way to work or in the course of his duties, in exactly the same fashion as was the case with Lieutenant-Commander Goodfellow. The officer in the Commonwealth Public Service or the person employed in private enterprise who is invalided out of his job is subject to tax on the pension he receives. For the life of me, I cannot see the difference between that and what happened in this case. All that the Government is doing, and I commend it, is making it clear that pensions paid to persons in the defence forces are to be treated in exactly the same way as those paid to people outside the defence forces. After all, that is the purpose of equity in income tax, that all people are subjected to the same rules and conditions and there is no particular advantage to others. I can see a difference. The situation to which I refer is specifically exempted in the Income Tax Assessment Act. A person who is injured in action in the defence of his country at a time of war receives a pension to compensate him for those injuries. He does not receive for life a pension which is of the quantum that a person who is paying superannuation receives. Quite frankly, in many of these cases, such people receive a very small pension for life to compensate for very serious injuries. I can understand that that pension is specifically exempted from income tax, and rightly so. But in my view there is a big difference between superannuation and the pension paid to a person as compensation for injuries sustained by him in the service of his country. I can see a very big difference between that situation and the situation cited by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  The reason it is necessary to amend the Act at the present stage is because the High Court of Australia for reasons best known to itself- for technical reasons- stated that such pensions were not subject to tax under the present income tax law. The amendments to the Act at the present time are to alter that situation to put pensions paid to contributors to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund in exactly the same situation as pensions paid to contributors of all other superannuation funds. I commend the Government for doing so. 
I should like to turn now in the short time available to me to the other amendments to the Act to be instituted by way of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill now under discussion. They deal with the averaging system. I am afraid I do not agree that the amendments which are being made to the Act in regard to the averaging system as it affects primary producers have gone far enough. That may sound strange to some people seeing I am a member of the Australian Labor Party. The situation is this: At the present time, the averaging provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act do not apply to a primary producer when his taxable income is in excess of $16,000 a year. The income is taxed at the normal general rate which is paid by every other person in the community. All that this amending Bill is seeking to do is to exclude from the averaging calculations for any future year the amount by which the income of a year exceeds $ 1 6,000. Frankly, I do not feel that this provision goes far enough. 
Let me outline what was stated in the Industries Assistance Commission report brought down on 4 July 1975. 1 ask honourable members to remember that this reference to the Commission to look at rural income fluctuations and certain taxation measures was made by the previous Whitlam Government. The Commission came down with a recommendation different from what the Government is now implementing. It is strange to me that a Government which supposedly looks after the interests of the primary producers- its Cabinet is heavily weighted with 5 or 6 primary producers- has not come down with something better than it has presented in this Bill. The Industries Assistance Commission has recommended to the Government for a variety of reasons that the averaging provisions should not cease just because an income has reached $ 16,000 a year. I shall quote some of the reasons which the Commission gave. It set out that the averaging scheme- the existing scheme- allows primary producers to use the average of the income of the current year and the preceding 4 years to determine the rate of tax which is to apply to their current year's income.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I would prefer to cover this aspect of the matter when the sitting is resumed at 8 p.m. because it is rather complex. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting for the dinner break I was speaking on the Income Tax Assessment Amendment BUI 1977 and in particular I referred to the averaging system applying to primary producers. When the sitting was suspended I was in the process of saying that in my view the Bill does not go far enough in giving advantages, if one calls them that, to primary producers. I would be the first to admit that they form a long-suffering section of the community. They are subject to the ravages of the weather; they are subject to the ravages caused by changes of government as well. 
My concern is the reference that the Labor Government, of which I was proud to be a member, gave to the Industries Assistance Commission in regard to rural income fluctuations and certain taxation measures. The Industries Assistance Commission came down with a recommendation- a pretty firm recommendation at that- that the present limitation of $16,000 income, which applies as the figure beyond which a farmer cannot get the benefit of the averaging provisions, should be completely abolished. The present Government, which supposedly looks after the interest of farmers and other business sections of the community, has not taken any note of that recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission. I think that to that extent it has been remiss. I think it would have been a far better idea for the Government, instead of tinkering around as it has done with the averaging provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act- before the suspension of the sitting I mentioned what it has actually done- to have removed completely the limitation of $16,000 income as the figure beyond which the averaging provisions cannot apply. I am sorry to see that the Government did not take up the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission, whose recommendation was the result of a reference made to it, as I said earlier, by the previous Whitlam Government. 
Another matter with which I am concerned, and this is probably one of the most important parts of the Bill, is what is known as the trading stock valuation adjustment. Much has been said on this matter by previous speakers from both sides of the House. In a statement made to this House on 9 December 1976 the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said that the deduction being provided as a trading stock valuation adjustment 'was the most appropriate way to reduce the burden of income tax on firms and companies which because of inflation have had to find increasing amounts of working capital to maintain business activity'. Quite frankly I, as well as other members of the Opposition have grave misgivings as to whether or not that is the most appropriate way in which to reduce the burden of income tax which is caused by the ravages of inflation. Notwithstanding the fine and pious words which supporters of the present Government uttered when they went to the people between November and December 1975, the Government has not done anything to reduce the level of inflation. In many ways it has fired the flames of inflation. I think we have reached the stage where the present Government can cease blaming the previous Labor Government for these things. The Government has been in power for just on 18 months and it is about time, to use a very common and very true old saying, that it put up or shut up. The stage has been reached when it has to accept the responsibility for the present state of the economy. It just cannot blame other people. It cannot blame someone else all the time. If it tries  to do so  people just will not believe it. 
The Government is seeking by means of this legislation to provide a way of indexing company tax. According to the information given to the Parliament, that part of the legislation which deals with the trading stock valuation adjustment will lead to a reduction by 5Vi points in company taxation. I do not know to what extent, as a result of indexation, taxation will be reduced for those firms which are either trading on their own account and not as companies or are trading as partnerships. However, I understand that of those individuals or people who will be affected by this trading stock valuation adjustment measure, 80 per cent will be companies and 20 per cent will be individuals and partnerships. 
I am gravely concerned also about the fact that the Government has succumbed to pressure. It has succumbed to pressure in regard to proposed alterations to section 3 1C and section 36A of the Income Tax Assessment Act. When I arrived in Canberra this week I found sitting on my desk a letter dated 28 April from the Australian Taxpayers Association. It gave a blurb about what the Government's alterations to the Income Tax Assessment Act would do in regard to retrospectivity. If ever there was a blackmail job it was this letter. It is about time the Australian Taxpayers Association looked at itself and worked out whether it is really looking after the interests of all taxpayers or the interests of only a certain section of the taxpaying community. 
The section of the taxpaying community to which I refer is, in my view, the one least deserving of any assistance at all. I refer to the tax dodgers, the tax evaders, the tax avoidance people. The letter which was sent to me and to every other member of the Parliament was signed by  Mr Eric  Risstrom. In the fourth last paragraph- this is the part to which I object- the letter states: 
Therefore (and as we live in a democracy, and because doubtless you would agree that taxpayers deserve to know who votes for what) we propose to print in our journal soon the names and the electorates of those who do not rigorously oppose this unfair retrospectivity. 
If ever there was a standover job, it is that letter. What I am disgusted about- I use the word 'disgusted' advisedly- is that the present Government and the people who form that government have allowed themselves to be subjected to that type of penny ante pressure. According to page 28 of today's Melbourne  Herald,  apparently that newspaper was not aware that the Government intended to back down; the Government did back down. The headline in tonight's  Herald  is: 'Government will close tax loopholes'. Just before this legislation was called on for debate this evening the Treasurer announced that he intended to introduce amendments to the legislation which will have the effect of watering down the closing of those tax loopholes. I say to the Government seriously that its job is to govern. Its job is to collect taxes fairly and equitably from all people. If it intends to be subjected to pressures from a penny ante mob such as this, it does not deserve to be in government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I am afraid I do not share the lofty ideals, if I can call them that, of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  I treat tax avoiders and tax evaders as thieves. I can use no word other than that word because they are thieving from the community. They are thieving from the community and forcing someone else, who is less able to pay his share of tax than they are, to pay that tax. I have no sympathy for the tax avoider or the tax evader. 
A tax avoider is a person who seeks to use the law to his own advantage. 
'Within the law' is a nice common saying. What does it actually mean? Criminals seek to operate within the law. They employ mouth pieces. They get the best of lawyers. They get off with murder. They get off after committing rape and they get off after bashing. But they are operating within the law. I put the tax avoiders and evaders into the same category as these people. They are thieving from their fellow men. I have no sympathy for them, nor does the Australian Labor Party. 
This action has been taken by the Government to water down- there is no other word for itwhat was a good provision in the original Act merely because of the complaints of a few people or a few tax avoiders. There were possibly more than a few in the accepted sense. But there was a lot of tax avoidance going on and the Taxation Office in its wisdom put forward a proposition to the Government, which was approved by the Government, to close off tax loopholes. A little pressure was applied. As I mentioned in my second reading speech, blackmail was applied. I use that word 'blackmail' advisedly. Blackmail was applied by the Taxpayers Association of Victoria under the signature of one Eric Risstrom who wrote to every member of Parliament and threatened that he would be named publicly and castigated if he supported this legislation. It was blackmail in its worst form. To its discredit, the Government has succumbed to the blackmail by putting forward this amendment which is now being made to the legislation. In other words, we are debating an amendment to restrict the operations of the provisions of the amendments to section 36a to 21 May 1977. What do we want the Taxation Office to do? What do we want our revenue collectors to do? Do we want them to fight these skilful tax avoiders with one hand tied behind their back. 
A lot of nonsense has been talked in this place about these people who made their decision in accordance with the law as it then existed. We are told that we cannot alter the law to undo what they have done. I do not agree with this. I do not agree that there is any need to protect tax avoiders and tax evaders any more than there is now. We hear a lot of talk in the Parliament in regard to the provisions of section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. That section was originally placed in the legislation to stop these schemes of avoidance. But the skilful lawyers and the skilful tax advisers to these people almost completely negatived the provisions of section 260. Recent cases such as the Slutzkin case and the Patrick Corporation case showed pretty well that section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act has no force. What was thought to be a good section in the Act a few years ago is now almost without force. These rorts, ramps and tax avoidance schemes are still going on. I think it is worthy of note that, to my knowledge, this is the first time since this Government has been in power-it has been in power for 18 months now- that it has allowed the Taxation Office to introduce legislation for its consideration to close off another tax loophole. 
I had some 34 years service in the Taxation Office before coming into the Parliament. I can remember speaking consistently in the House between 1969 and 1972 to try to get the then governments- that was the Gorton Government and the McMahon Government- to introduce legislation to close off tax loopholes and tax avoidance schemes which are mainly for the benefit of the wealthy friends of honourable members opposite. Not a word was heard from the then governments of the day and no action was taken by them to close off those tax avoidance loopholes. It was under the Government which I was proud to support form 1972 to 1975 that we allowed the Income Tax Assessment Act to be amended to close off these tax avoidance schemes and these loopholes brought about by these mavericks who are roaming around the country thinking up ways and means of exploiting and profiteering at the expense of their fellowmen. That is all they are. They are a bunch of mavericks. 
-There are many skilled people in this place who have lived off the mavericks in the community. I refer to the legal advisers to the tax avoiders, the accountants and the tax avoidance scheme advisers to these mavericks and tax avoiders. They have lived off them the same as a solicitor or a criminal lawyer lives off the illgotten gains of somebody he defends for a murder. I put such people in the same category. 
There are still tax avoidance schemes which need to be closed off. This amendment we are debating tonight unfortunately will be negatived to a large degree. Members of the ALP thought when we were in government that we had effectively closed off dividend stripping schemes. I am afraid this has not been the case because skilful tax advisers to these tax avoiders have whipped up further schemes. Unfortunately this Government will not accept the advice of its advisers and bring in changes to the legislation to chop out these schemes. I refer not only to dividend stripping schemes but also to schemes such as the acquisition of company structures which are then exploited. I say this to the Government quite seriously: Have a little less sympathy for the tax avoiders and the tax evaders and a little more sympathy for the average person in the community who pays his fair share of tax. 
Such people do pay their fair share of tax. The average wage earner cannot get out of paying it. He is forced to do so. But this is not the case in business. I do not put all people in business in this category. But the wage earner cannot get out of paying tax. The tax is taken out of his wage before he receives it. That applies to members of Parliament as well. The man in business, particularly those without a great deal of ethics or with very little ethics- that is the correct word to use - 
The honourable member who interjects knows what I am saying is quite true. There are very few ethics where tax avoidance is concerned. It is a case of chiselling and cheating or whatever honourable members like to call it. There is no other name for it. Frankly, I believe that the members of that section of the community who are prepared to bludge- that is another word I do not normally use- on their fellow taxpayers are worthy of no consideration. I say to the Government, to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and to the skilled officers of the Taxation Office who are present: Keep putting up these schemes to the Government to wipe out all tax avoidance schemes. When that happens, everyone will pay his fair share of tax. That includes the ordinary person in the community. That will force these mavericks in the community, who are trying to get out of paying any tax if it is possible, to pay their fair share of tax. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill-by leave-taken as a whole. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Did the Prime Minister hold a meeting last week with  Mr Philip  Alston, the then Ambassador designate of the United States of America, in regard to Central Intelligence Agency activities in Australia? Did  Mr Alston  request this meeting as the Prime Minister's staff indicated to journalists, or did the Prime Minister request it as  Mr Alston  stated yesterday at his Press conference? Does the Prime Minister consider it proper and appropriate to summon an ambassador who has not yet presented his credentials? Was the Prime Minister so concerned with the allegations of overt CIA activities in Australia that he took this unusual course? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="105131197705262_49_1.jpg"></graphic>

To me it is ridiculous to go on distributing these road funds, principally on the basis of population. Whether it be population or density of vehicles, it really comes back to the density of population. We ought to take into consideration the enormous road distances involved in Western Australia and the difficult and tremendously expansive terrain through which a lot of these roads must be built. Because of the mountainous terrain and the huge river systems which have to be crossed in some parts of the State, where a single bridge may cost from $3m to $ 14m and where some roads require 30 or 40 bridges, some special criteria must be arrived at. Over those same roads travel the huge machines and the huge volume of commodities that generate great part of the wealth of this nation through export income. At the present time, the people in those areas and the industries concerned are being penalised by high and ever-rising costs caused by lack of funds. 
I believe that the evaluation techniques of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads do not give sufficient recognition to the special roads needs of the State of Western Australia. A great deal more emphasis could be placed on the export income earning capacity of the industries in these difficult areas. Whilst the total thrust of the Commonwealth's provision of funds is placing emphasis in the right area at the present time and is providing more funds for rural and local roads, particularly in isolated areas, I believe that that could well be accentuated. At present the Commonwealth Government recognises the deficiency to some extent and is in fact providing funds to Western Australia in a greater percentage proportion of the total allocation than has been recommended by the Bureau of Roads. That is indeed heartening, and I would ask the Minister to look again at these factors in the future and give some special consideration to roads not only in Western Australia but also throughout other parts of Australia which have special needs and special income earning propensities and special application for the people of an area. When we talk about the Pilbara and Kimberley areas of Western Australia, we are talking about some very difficult road building country, and it is imperative that their needs not be based on the same criteria as those used for roads in the southern part of Western Australia, for instance, or in the eastern States. It is significant that some of the matching provisions do penalise Western Australia, and it is heartening to note that the Commonwealth has alleviated some of the need for Western Australia to match completely the Commonwealth contribution in order to comply with the formula previously laid down. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Administrator recommending appropriation announced. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 4 measures? I will allow that course to be followed. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that funds for many worthy causes financed under the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act have been fully allocated until 30 June 1978? Is the Treasurer aware that many new sheltered workshops cannot be financed because he will not allocate funds for this purpose? Is he aware of the misery that this entails for handicapped children and their parents? Will he cease acting like a Scrooge and allocate sufficient funds to assist worthy causes for handicapped persons? 
-1 would suggest that we come back to the Bill. 
I was intrigued to hear the honourable member for Maribyrnong refer to the new group of health police. Perhaps he was exaggerating again, but I do believe that the success of the control of the use of pathology services is going to come only from an intelligent and adult appreciation and survellience by doctors of themselves, whether they are members of the Australian Medical Association or not. I believe that the use of indictable offences is a most essential weapon in the control of abuses in this regard. The extent and size of the abuses that are known to many of us in this House in the provision of pathology services is extremely high. I do not believe that they are light-hearted and I do not believe that they have been entered into carelessly. I believe that many of the major abuses in the provision of these services have been premeditated and have a very serious aspect to them. I hope that the increase of penalties will not only be a deterrent but that the people who will be examining them will enact and use some of these higher penalties. 
The confusion about the use of pathology services was clearly highlighted during the week in the paper released by Professor Blacken of the University of New South Wales. He commented that he believed the junior doctors in the hospitals were now incurring costs of up to $1,000 a day each in their prescribing of technical services, including pathology services. I have spoken to several doctors since Blackett's announcement appeared in the newspaper on Saturday. It is interesting that the older the doctor the calmer and more critical he is of the overuse of technical services. It seems to be that the younger the doctor the more aware he is of the use of technical services such as pathology and all those other magical new things which have been introduced in the last 20 years. I had one case put to me only yesterday by a very senior doctor at Prince Henry Hospital. He told me that with all his years of experience he had decided not to have certain tests done on a seriously ill patient and gave instructions to this effect. However, one of his young registrars or residents, whatever the junior doctor is called, decided to carry out certain tests despite the instruction from the senior doctor. Those tests revealed an aspect of disease in the person that had not been readily recognisable earlier. I am not a medical rnan and cannot describe it but the senior doctor, when apologising to the resident, said that one of the great problems in the medical profession today was to determine when to use and when not to use technical services. I am as critical as anyone in this place of the over-use of pathology services but I hope that the controls embodied in this Bill will not frighten off the enthusiastic young doctor from deciding to have a thorough examination made of patients such as myself. 
I congratulate the Minister for having taken a broad outlook towards not only the provision of this medical service but also in respect of other aspects of his Ministry. I also congratulate the members of the working party and in particular, publicly from this place, to thank  Dr Sugarman  on a personal basis. He lives in my constituency and is known to me. He has had a very large practice in pathology and I compliment him. I suppose that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would be very much aware of him too because he would be in your district. The professionalism of this man and ho doubt of others on the working party who presented this working paper is enough to give us non-professionals confidence. Despite the scoundrels to whom the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  referred, and no doubt they are there, and despite the type of people in the medical profession to whom the honourable member for Maribyrnong referred- but I cannot use the word he used- the quality of the work of other members of the medical profession these days has given me confidence in that profession. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
I should like to make just a few comments in respect of this Bill. I ask the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner)  whether he can furnish me with some information. What is the operative date of the amendments which have been made by the Senate. I ask that because when the original Bill which contained amendments concerning section 36a of the Income Tax Assessment Act come into this House it had an operative date of 1 July 1 976, 1 think. Representations were made to supporters of the Government and members of the Opposition by  Mr Eric  Risstrom. He put rather a forceful case, so much so that the Government in fact did bring down amendments to make the operative date 21 April 1977. I should like the Minister to advise us of the operative date of the new amendments to section 36a. I should hate to think that the tax avoiders about whom I spoke on another occasion when this Bill was before the House would be gleaning further benefits to which, quite frankly, they are not entitled. Rarely do I commend the Government, but on this occasion I commend it for bringing in these amendments. As  Senator Withers  said in another place: 
The amendment is intended to prevent the new trading stock adjustment being misused for tax avoidance purposes. 
I commend to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  that action should be taken, but not only in respect of amendments to section 36A. There are other provisions in the Income Tax Assessment Act which are being misused, if I may use that word, for the financial benefit of people who in reality do not need them. They are obtaining these financial benefits only at the expense of somebody else. To the extent that the Government has decided to close off one of these additional loopholes, I commend it. 
I also commend to the Government the thought that it should have a further look at a lot of the other tax avoidance schemes which are still available and ask the Taxation Commissioner to bring down at a very early date some recommendations for closing off of those tax avoidance schemes. As the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said when speaking to this Bill, there are still many tax avoidance schemes which have not been closed off and there are very shrewd tax consultants, very shrewd tax advisers, whose sole role is to save money for their clients at the expense of the ordinary taxpayer, who can ill afford to pay more. I commend to the Government that it should as a matter of urgency ask the Taxation Commissioner to look at this matter. Knowing the procedures which operate within the Taxation Office, I am certain that the Taxation Commissioner would be only too willing to suggest further amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act which would further close off some of the loopholes still in existence, and not only in respect of section 3 6  a. 
I suggest to the Minister at the table that he should take up with the Treasurer the problem of taxation avoidance generally. I am informed by people who should know that prior to the closing off of the loopholes in regard to section 36A, the cost to revenue of the misuse of these provisions in the Income Tax Assessment Act was something like $200m a year. If $200m a year is lost to revenue, it means that very beneficial projects cannot be implemented. The tax dodgers are getting away with it, and other people in the community are not receiving the benefits to which they should be entitled in respect of social services, education and so on because the revenue is not there. I suggest to the Minister at the table that he should take up with the Treasurer this very important issue of tax avoidance so that these tax avoidance schemes can be closed off. 
I wish to raise in the Parliament tonight a matter which I consider to be a great exploitation of people who are commonly called prohibited immigrants. I have spoken with the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr McKellar)  in regard to this case and I am raising the matter so that I can place on public record the extent to which people who are in the unfortunate situation of being in Australia and classified as prohibited immigrants are being exploited by people who should know better. They are being exploited by solicitors, by one solicitor in particular. 
Without naming the person who is classified as a prohibited immigrant, I should like to put into the public record the circumstances of this case. He is a Fijian of Indian origin. He came out to Australia in December 1976. He had been in Australia previously on a tourist visa. Basically he came to Australia with the intention of trying to get the approval of the Australian Government to stay in Australia as a permanent resident. He has a brother in Australia who is an Australian citizen. I do not know who advised this person from Fiji to go to this solicitor, but apparently within the Fijian and Tongan community here in Australia, this solicitor, whose name I will reveal in a few moments, has a name for being able to do something with the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I think this is falsely so because all this solicitor seems to do is separate these unsuspecting people from their money. 
The solicitor concerned is a  Mr D.  P. Khoury who practices under the name of Benjamin and Khoury, Solicitors and Attorneys at Law, of 184 Victoria Street, Potts Point. If my memory serves me correctly, when a person becomes a solicitor he becomes a servant or an officer of the court and there are certain ethics involved. One of the ethics, as I understand it, is not to separate poor unsuspecting people from their money. The circumstances of this case are that my constituent, as he is now, within a couple of weeks of arriving in Australia, was advised to see  Mr Khoury,  the solicitor at Potts Point. The first thing  Mr Khoury  did was ask my constituent for $300 in cash. On my constituent's first contact with  Mr Khoury, Mr Khoury  said to him: 'Well, the best thing you can do is give me $300.' My poor unsuspecting constituent paid over that money at the first interview, without, I might add,  Mr Khoury  even giving him a receipt for the $300. The purpose for my constituent paying the $300 in the first place was to get  Mr Khoury  to represent him in his attempt to get permanent residency in Australia. On my constituent's next contact with  Mr Khoury  he was asked for another $300. That made $600 which my constituent paid to  Mr Khoury.  Then, on 20 April 1977, some 3 months later,  Mr Khoury  sent my constituent a letter. I shall read an exerpt from that letter.  Mr Khoury  says: 
We request that you forward to us by return mail an amount of $500 being continuing retainer in this matter. We would appreciate receiving such within 7 days from the date hereof. 
That makes a total of $1,100 which this solicitor wanted. Now what was the purpose of him wanting that money? What was the solicitor supposed to be doing? All the solicitor was to do was to get an application form from my constituent to forward to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs for the purpose of trying to get him permanent residency in Australia. Up to the present time that form has not been sent to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I am informed by the Department that this Khoury character- I call him that- has purloined money from over 600 clients so far. I ask the Minister to investigate this rapacious solicitor. I ask the Commissioner of Taxation to investigate his activities and I also ask the Law Council to do so because a man like this should not be allowed to practice. He is a disgrace to the Australian legal profession. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 30 May 1 977: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 187  (Hansard,  29 March 1977, page 708), did the negotiations at Geneva on 7 March 1977 for the establishment of a Common Fund fail to achieve an agreement on a Common Fund. 
Did the Australian delegation telex to Canberra during the course of the conference on the announced policy of the Common Market countries that there should be commodity price stabilisation agreement where appropriate and there should be a Common Fund. 
) If so, is it a fact that the Australian delegation received no instructions for 48 hours; if so, why were no instructions given. 
If any instructions were subsequently given what were they. 
What views were expressed by the Australian delegation at the Conference. 
What is the present attitude of the Australian Government on the establishment of a Common Fund. 
Has a request been received that the Australian Government authorise members of its delegation to attend an open public meeting organised by the Common Fund Campaign and discuss the Government's views; if so, what action does the Government propose to take on this request. 
-Is leave granted? 
-At the outset I place on record my indignation at the attitude of the Government in attempting to play politics on this issue. The time is twenty minutes to midnight. Apparently the brains behind the Government, be it the Whip, the  Deputy  Whip or the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)-  I know not which- has decided that he will test the Opposition out to see whether it has sufficient speakers to take part in the debate on this issue. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  raised the issue- he did it in a facetious style- of whether the Government would be providing breakfast. In other words, he was seeking to find out how long this Government will seek to play politics on an important issue. The issue is whether uranium should be mined and exported. I refer to a prophetic statement which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  made in this Parliament on 29 March 1977. He said: 
The Fraser Government is continuing to mislead and confuse the Australian people on the issue of uranium mining and export. Naturally this deception begins with confusion and concealment concerning its own policy. The Government professes to have an open mind on this issue, but for anyone with eyes to see and ears to hear, its mind is made up. It is in favour of uranium mining; it is in favour of uranium exports; it wants to go ahead with them whatever happens. Its options are closed. 
How prophetic was that statement remembering that it was made on 29 March 1977. 'Its options are closed' were the words of the Leader of the Opposition. How true this is. This Government has now come forward with a policy. Its options were closed then; its options are closed now. It has no concern for the world population. Australia should have an obligation to the rest of the world. It should have an obligation to humanity. It should have an obligation to future generations. At least the Australian Labor Party recognises that obligation. The Government does not recognise it. The Australian Labor Party in its recently determined policy realises that it has an obligation to the rest of the world, to humanity and to future generations. 
To my mind it is sinful that any government, including this Government, would proceed to open new uranium mines in Australia and to export that uranium before adequate international safeguards on waste disposal have been established. Apparently this Government, having made up its mind many moons ago, has no concern about the important issue of waste disposal. I have six children. I am concerned not so much for those six children but for their children and their children after them. The effects of waste from uranium will not be felt in my time. They will not be felt in my children's time. They will be felt in my children's children's time and in the time of their children thereafter. 
I am not being emotive on this issue. It is a fact of life. As members of the Parliament- I am not playing politics- we have an obligation to humanity. Not only do I have an obligation to the people I represent, but also, as an Australian parliamentarian, I have an obligation to all Australians. I am not elected to represent only the people who voted for me. I am elected to represent all the people in my electorate. Collectively, we in this Parliament are elected to represent all the people of Australia, not just the people who happened to vote for us in the December 1975 election. They will not vote for honourable members opposite in the future. 
I have a sign behind my desk in my office. It has on it a very true statement. I notice that a number of people when they come to interview me on a problem look at it almost as though they were looking at a crucifix on the wall. To some of them it must be a crucifix. The words on that sign are: 'Don't blame me- I voted Labor'. This is a very true statement. The Government should be thinking not just of the Tories, the conservatives, the tall poppies and the mining interests, but of all the people of Australia. It is not. If it was at all sincere and if it was thinking of the people of Australia, their children and their children after them it could not possibly come down with a policy such as it has enunciated. 
We have had two reports from the Fox Commission of Inquiry. Should the Government and the whole of Australia ignore the findings of the Fox Commission? The Commission pointed out the risks of inadequate safeguards in regard to nuclear waste and the dangers of nuclear war. Apparently this Government hangs its hat on the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty and its associated safeguard agreements. It is interesting to note that the report of the Fox Commission lists no fewer than 1 1 major defects in the Treaty. Its exact words are: 
The Non-Proliferation Treaty only provides an illusion of protection. 
I repeat the words 'an illusion of protection'. Australia occupies a special position on the nuclear scene. It posesses relatively large uranium reserves. It is in a position to influence world opinion by its actions. The fact which galls me is that this Government has made commitments, urged on by mining lobby, by its spokesmen in this Parliament and by the uranium forum with its false advertisements. The uranium lobby's advertisements were false in many particulars. 
Unfortunately, the mining lobby in this Parliament happens to be led by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  Following him in obedience like the sheep they are, are members of the National Country Party. I am certain that people in country areas, if they were asked whether they support the attitude of the Government as reiterated again and again by the  Deputy  Prime Minister, would say that they would not support that policy, not only from the economic point of view but also because country people are realists and thinkers. There is a tendency amongst city people to live for today. My wife comes from the country. She does not live for today. She has to live with me. But she is a thinker. I say that about most country people. They think not only of today; they also think of the future. They think of their children and their children's children. If the members and the Leader of the National Country Party were to canvass the opinion of people in country areas I am certain they would find that those people would say that uranium should not be mined and sold outside Australia until there are adequate safeguards on waste disposal. What shocks me is that the  Deputy  Prime Minister has even suggested publicly that if Australia did not mine and export its uranium Japan would come and take it. 
As my friend the honourable member for Hunter said, it is an insult to the Australian people to suggest that we can be bluffed and bludgeoned into disposing of our uranium for fear that Japan will come and take it from us. I give the lie to that. I do not think that the average Australian thinks that way. The average Australian is a realist. He is no chicken. If it were put to him that Japan would come and take our uranium if we did not sell it, I think that the average Australian would say: 'Come and have a go.' 
As the honourable member for Hughes says, he would dig his toes in. The present Government is playing politics. Unfortunately it is playing politics with the lives of the people of Australia and of generations to come. It is playing this game for purely political purposes. The Government is hoping to create an issue. It is in dire financial trouble at the moment. The economy is rotten. Unemployment is rife. 
We are going on the way to having half a million people unemployed. To try to divert the attention of the people of Australia the Government is coming up with this issue of uranium mining and export. I suggest to the Government that the people of Australia are not fools. It takes them a while to wake up, but they have woken up. 
Yes, they resent being treated as fools. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  said today- I almost hate to quote it- that women should not have been given the vote. That was a shocking thing to say. It is on the record. It is an indictment of the women of this country. I hate to think that there is an indictment of the people of this country by the Government because it thinks that the people of Australia are fools. Australia is in a position to exercise responsibility in world affairs. It controls a significant proportion of the world's available uranium. 
It controls 13 per cent of the available and known reserves of uranium. It could well follow the example of Canada. More than IS months ago Canada declared that it would never again, under any circumstances, pass to another country nuclear materials or technology which could contribute to nuclear weapons proliferation. That policy by Canada is uncompromising and, in my view, it is right. Australia could well follow the example of Canada. Australia is in a position to influence world opinion. I only hope that at this late stage it is possible for the Government to recant, to change its policy. If some members on the other side of the House would come across and vote with us we would at last have a sensible decision, a sensible policy, for the people of Australia, not only for the present generation but also for future generations to come. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sainsbury)  adjourned. 
-It is now 1 p.m. and in accordance with the suspension of Standing Orders the debate is now interrupted. I put the question: 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2.15  p.m. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. The right honourable gentleman will remember that on Wednesday last, in response to a question without notice, he asserted that there would not be any additional assistance to rural industry in this financial year beyond the tax averaging provisions he announced yesterday. I ask the Treasurer: Is it a fact that these recently announced changes to the system of personal income tax, which were first introduced only 4 weeks ago, generally restore a benefit that primary producers enjoyed prior to the Budget? I ask the Treasurer how he can reconcile these changes with his statement on page 33 of Statement No. 2 of the 1977-78 Budget Papers which reads: 
Apart from Budget proposals themselves, there will be no new fiscal measures during 1977-78. 
Is it also a fact that the measures he announced last night will not assist the majority of beef producers and many other struggling primary producers because so many of them do not have a taxable income? Finally, in the light of press speculation last Friday about a rural miniBudget and the parlous state of the beef industry, is the Treasurer prepared to assert again that the Government will not provide any meaningful assistance to the beef industry and other depressed primary producers? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The amendment read as follows- 

That all words after 'that' be deleted and the following words substituted: 
This House rejects the Government's precipitate decision, without sufficient public debate in Australia and negotiation overseas, to renew the mining and export of uranium by Australia in the absence of: 
1 ) commitments by customer countries to apply effective and verifiable safeguards against the diversion of Australian uranium from peaceful nuclear purposes to military nuclear purposes; 
international safeguards which will ensure that the export of Australian uranium will not contribute to the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the increased risk of nuclear war; 
3 ) procedures for the storage and disposal of radioactive wastes which will eliminate any danger posed by such wastes to human life and the environment; and 
adequate measures to safeguard the environment and national parks and protect Aboriginal rights and interests. 
I come now to the contribution to this debate by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier).  We gave him approval to incorporate the British Trades Union Congress resolution. It was adopted by the pommy shop stewards whom the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is vilifying in this country. It seems that when pommy shop stewards come up with a resolution with which the Government agrees they are gentlemen and scholars but when they do something with which the Government does not agree they come from a long line of unmarried parents. 
Let us get the picture clear. The Government uses whatever it suits the Government to use, and in this case it is using the TUC resolution because it suits the Government's argument. However, what the Government is not taking into consideration is the position in the United Kingdom and the fact that in the United Kingdom the people have to deal with issues which concern them but which do not concern us. The Opposition believes that the subject under discussion now, the Government's policy on the mining and sale of uranium, is being used by the Government as a stooge in an endeavour to stir up division in this country and create the environment for a law and order election which it can pull on at a minute's notice. All I hope is that the people who are taking part in these demonstrations will terminate their activities immediately and realise that if they do so this Government will be defeated within the next 12 months and uranium mining then will not be a fact of life. On the other hand, if they want to bring about the return of the Liberal-National Country Party Government and continue the mining and export of uranium they should carry on with their demonstrations and with performances such as they put on when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was at a university a couple of Friday nights ago. All they are doing is playing into the hands of Fraser, Anthony and the rest of the members of the Government. 
Let the real issues, the economic issues, facing this country be dealt with. Today there are 90,000 more unemployed than there were two years ago. Inflation is still running at the rate of about 13.4 per cent and there is no indication that the fine tuning which the Government talked about will ever be brought into operation. So I say to the trade unions and to the people taking part in these demonstrations: There is one way to get rid of this Government; do not fall for the trap that Fraser has lined up for them, which is what they are doing now. The real issue facing the world today is the energy crisis and this is what the world should be tackling so that collectively we can overcome this crisis other than by the use of atomic energy which will pollute this world for the next 250,000 years. 
I come back to the point I made earlier This Government is using uranium as an issue to gloss over its mismanagement of the economy. The Fraser Government is trying to mislead Australians in regard to the nuclear fuel cycle with half truths and talk of future economic bonanzas. We all remember what was said on the Friday after the announcement was made in this place. It was said that $25,000m would be the revenue from the sale of uranium and 500,000 jobs would be provided. All I ask the Government to indicate is where the $25,000m will come from. Where and when will the 500,000 jobs be provided? Members of the Government know as well as I do that the Government is talking about much smaller figures for the future. Let us turn to some of the half truths which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  spoke in his remarks about the disposal of nuclear waste. In his statement in the House on 25 August he said: 
The Government is satisfied that the technology exists for the safe management and ultimate disposal of highly radioactive waste. 
The Prime Minister said that Australia would participate in international studies directed to improve standards for waste disposal. This is an admission by the Government that standards of waste disposal are not at present entirely adequate. We have a typical example by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman).  He came into the House today and used the Government's numbers to try to ram down the Parliament's neck facts which were not true. When he had to stand up for the issues tonight on the television program  This Day Tonight  he had to admit that all he had said today was garbage and that in reality there was not one commercial processing plant in the world today. He tried to mislead the Parliament today. Under questioning in the public gaze he had to admit that. The facts are there. 
The Parliamentary Labor Party's environmental committee had a representative of the Atomic Energy Commission address it. The representative was  Dr C.  J. Hardy, the project manager. He talked to us about the problems of uranium and radioactive waste. He gave us six things which have to be done to get rid of the waste. I quickly go through them. To get protection this is what has to be done: The disposal area must be remote from centres of population. A dry, seismically stable area for burial must be selected. Burial must be 600 metres below ground. There must be guaranteed insolubility of waste glass. Absorption by soil must be assured if any activity is leached out. There must be a sufficient tune delay to allow radioactivity to decay. It is necessary to bury the waste for upwards of thousands of years. The doctor, on the occasion of his visit to the committee, said that the waste would have to be put in secured land with guards over it All I ask is: For how long will it be guarded and who will pay the wages of the guards who are protecting the waste to keep it from revolutionary groups who could get it back and use it. 
As far as the problem of pollution is concerned, the uncertainty about waste disposal was shared by the Ranger Uranium Environmental 
Inquiry Commissioners. For instance, on page 1 10 of the first report they state: 
High level wastes are at present stored mainly in liquid form, and some constituents will remain dangerously radioactive for several hundreds of thousands of years. There is at present no generally accepted means by which high level waste can be permanently isolated from the environment and remain safe for very long periods. 
The Ranger report at page 187 in a postscript which was printed after the first report had been prepared refers to the Flowers Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution and spells out the facts. What that Commission had to say about the matter is quite clear. Only yesterday morning on the radio program  AM  there was an interview. I read part of it. It states: 
The General Accounting Office is a Congressional watchdog and it has issued a gloomy 73-page report. The document was made public at a House sub-committee hearing. 
The reporter goes on further to say that the United States over a period of 30 years had accumulated something like 74 million gallons of the stuff- that is to use his words- which had a life of anywhere from 1,000 years to 250,000 years. Honourable members might ask: What is the General Accounting Office? As I have said, that is a Congressional watchdog. It is overseeing the operations of the United States Energy Research and Development Administration which is another United States Government department. So the situation is that two United States Government departments are carrying out the responsibility of overseeing what the other is doing, and they cannot agree. The General Accounting Office says that the work which is being done by ERDA is not effective and that there is a problem because there are 74 million gallons of the stuff- again using its words. The Minister came in here and tried to ram down our necks- he was misleading the Parliament- that there is a solution. Yet tonight, I repeat, he admitted on  This Day Tonight  that there was no commercial plant, which is the same fact as appears from the interview on  AM.  The General Accounting Office is not satisfied with the way things are going. Honourable members opposite talk about scientists supporting the project. We on this side of the House can list the names of hundreds of scientists throughout Australia who are opposed to the proposition. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Abel)  adjourned. 
-In introducing the Budget on 16 August of this year the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said: 
I reaffirm the Government's basic objectives. Our first goal is to maintain the underlying trend to lower inflation. Our second goal, which is dependent upon the achievement of the first, is to promote moderate and non-inflationary growth in order to create jobs and reduce unemployment. 
Such a statement by the Treasurer can be described only as pious claptrap. The Budget Speech then goes on to show over 29 pages a complete and absolute disregard and lack of concern for people. It is in that regard that the Australian Labor Party differs from this Government. Our first interest is in people. Unfortunately, our Treasurer regards himself as an oracle' and believes that all the pearls of wisdom repose in his brain. He seems to have classed himself as being the best Treasurer in this decade. 
It reminds me of a story that is told of the Treasurer when he was travelling across the country in a VIP aircraft. I cannot vouch for the accuracy or the truth of the story. On board the aircraft were the Treasurer and two pilots from the Royal Australian Air Force. He also had on board with him two friends, one of whom was an aged clergyman and the other one of whom was a boy scout. As they were flying over the country the message came from the pilot's cabin that they were having problems and that the passengers would have to abandon the aircraft. The pilot said: 'Unfortunately, we have got only two parachutes for the passengers. Since there are three of you, you had better work it out amongst yourselves'. So the Treasurer, as is his wont, raced down to where he saw these bundles stored and grabbed what he took to be a parachute. He put it on and jumped out of the aircraft. The clergyman said to the young fellow: 'I have had many years of this life and you have got the whole world ahead of you. You take the only remaining parachute; you go out and I will stay with the plane'. The scout said: 'You know the smart Treasurer, he happened to jump out with my haversack on his back'. So we lost a Treasurer. 
One of the things that the Treasurer announced before we lost him was that overseas borrowings this year will amount to $8S0m. That is only in the first three months of this year. With nine months of this financial year still to go, who knows what astronomical figure this Government will borrow overseas if it follows its present policies? I shall quote a few words from a prophetic poem written by a well known and loved Australian poet, John O'Brien, who wrote  Around the Boree Log. 
Yes. The prophetic words which apply to this Budget are in a poem called  Hanrahan.  They read: 
We'll all be  rooned'  said Hanrahan, 'before the year is out'. 
I am afraid that that is the tenor of this Budget. Unfortunately, I cannot have the whole book  Around the Boree Log  incorporated in  Hansard  -it would be too long- but it, and particularly that poem, would make good readme for the Treasurer. I ask him to take it to heart. Only time will tell how prophetic the words of our Australian poet, John O'Brien, will be. We do not have very long to go before the year is out. If Hanrahan is right, we will all be 'rooned '. 
Unfortunately, this Government is adamant that it is following the right policies. It is sticking its head in the sand and following policies which of themselves must bring greater unemployment, with its attendant misery for the whole community. I think the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  said that the biggest worry in the minds of people today is the spectre of unemployment. I agree with him. I know, by speaking to constituents in my electorate, of the fear in their hearts and the worry they have as to how long they will keep their jobs. The latest official figures that are available show that as at 3 1 August this year 333,978 persons were registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. That figure represents 5.4 per cent of the labour force. I remind honourable members that in August 1975- the equivalent month, when a Labor government was in power- the unemployment rate was only 4.5 per cent. That certainly was too high, but the rate was not nearly as high as it is under this Government, the Government which was going to turn on the lights. During the period of the Liberal-National Country Party Government unemployment has increased by almost 100,000 compared with two years previously under a Labor government. 
Unemployment has hit hardest in the western suburbs of Sydney, which is the area covered by my electorate. This area has the youngest population and the highest number of migrants. These two groups have been the worst hurt by the present record levels of unemployment. The official figures show that more than 50 per cent of the total unemployed in the western suburbs of Sydney are under the age of 2 1 years. That is a travesty. What hope is there for young people who have left school in the last couple of years? I know young people who have been unemployed for up to three years. One can imagine their hopelessness and loss of heart. They can see no future for themselves. When a person's belief in the future is killed it almost destroys his mentality. The worst feature of the actions of the present Government is that this unemployment has been created deliberately. 
Despite the Government's deliberate actions it has announced recently that it intends to bring in legislation to deny the unemployment benefit to school leavers from the time they leave school. Surely it is fresh in people's minds how the Government withheld unemployment benefit from school leavers last year. When its actions were challenged the High Court ruled that they were illegal. But the Government was able to defy the High Court decision on a technicality. To put the matter beyond any legal doubt the Government has announced its intention to introduce special legislation to prevent school leavers from receiving unemployment benefit even if they genuinely cannot get employment when they leave school. Surely this proves beyond any doubt that this Government has a callous indifference to the plight of the young unemployed who have been thrown on to the industrial scrap heap by its deliberate economic actions. 
The only hope for the young unemployed is a job led recovery, which only a Labor government will provide. This Government has done nothing about unemployment on the basis that it must tackle inflation first. What a callous attitude. The Treasurer made this quite clear in the opening paragraphs of his Budget Speech which I quoted earlier. At the very least this Government should be setting up a decent and humane job creation scheme. Unemployed people, particularly the young unemployed, are sick and tired of the honeyed words of the Government and the pious platitudes. They are sick and tired of the 'life was not meant to be easy' syndrome, particularly when it comes from leaders of this Government who were born with silver spoons in their mouths. 
It is about time the Treasurer admitted that his economic policies have failed. It is surely time he realised that the mammoth cuts in government spending which this Government has effected have resulted in a reduced demand for goods and services and, therefore, a reduced demand for labour and consequently more unemployment. It is axiomatic that this just had to happen. Other Western countries have a much higher level of government spending than we have in Australia. They are able to achieve a high level of employment and a lower level of inflation. This Government's economic actions apparently are based on the premise that if government spending is cut it will be replaced automatically by spending in the private sector and investment from overseas sources. This has not happened. History has shown that it is unlikely to happen either now or in the future. The only solution left to this Government is to embark on a policy of increased government expenditure to act as a direct stimulus, thereby creating employment. 
One matter on which the Government must come in for severe criticism is its lack of action to close off tax avoidance loopholes. Of course, it is only following the pattern that was set by previous Liberal-Country Party governments. I suppose it is only natural that this Government has no wish to hurt the main contributors to its party funds and its wealthy friends and supporters. It is history that the only worthwhile legislation that has been introduced into the Parliament in the last decade to prevent tax avoidance loopholes was that introduced by the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975. Most of it was introduced by my colleague and friend, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  when he was Treasurer. Unfortunately, there will always be 'smarties' who seek to avoid their just responsibilities, whether they concern taxation or anything else. They will seek to pass those responsibilities on to other people or other taxpayers. 
I have often heard this so-called legal tax avoidance described as using the law to one's own advantage. I do not treat it in that way. In a speech I made in this House on 4 May 1977 I described tax avoiders as bludgers. Quite frankly, that is all they are. When a person avoids his taxation responsibilities he only passes them on to someone else. The Government has to have the revenue to embark on worthwhile social service projects and the like. These tax avoiders are assisted by their 'smart' legal advisers and their 'smart' accountants. Unfortunately, in many ways these tax avoidance experts have been assisted by the courts. It is not within my province to criticise learned judges and members of the legal fraternity, but unfortunately they do not seem to take a very objective legal view in giving assistance to tax avoidance schemes and tax avoiders- willingly or unwillingly- by their interpretation of the law. The purpose of section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act was and still is to make these alleged legal tax avoidance schemes inoperative. Unfortunately, recent High Court decisions have rendered section 260 almost inoperative. At the present time it is an open slather for tax avoiders. 
As has been mentioned previously in this House trusts can be set up, but they are set up only by those who have the wherewithal to avoid tax. The average person in the community has no incentive to set up tax avoidance trusts or bogus partnerships. The wage earner cannot escape paying tax, and that applies right throughout the community. The person who is bearing more than his fair share of the tax burden is the person least able to do so- the person on wages. I trust that in the not too distant future the Government will do something to tie up these tax avoidance schemes, to prevent hundreds of millions of dollars finding their way into the wrong pockets- in a lot of cases into the pockets of overseas based companies which have set up in Australia, in many cases to exploit our mineral resources. 
In the Budget the Government made great play of what was called a new and modern taxation system. It has adjusted the taxation system and has claimed that the adjustment will reduce personal taxation. This claim is illusory. In the statements submitted with the Budget it is shown that the Government expects to increase its revenue gained through personal income tax by 17 per cent and the adjustment to the system, which in any case will not be introduced until February 1978, will reduce the pay-as-you-earn tax obligation of many individuals. However, concessional rebates have been halved and tax indexation is to be abandoned. I remain to be convinced that that is a step forward. The overall effect of the adjustments to the personal taxation system is therefore to reduce household disposable incomes. That will certainly not effect a spending-led recovery. The Government's assertion that it has lightened the personal taxation burden is an absolute sham. 
The Government has even been criticised by its own supporters, the people who for years have kicked in to the party funds, such as the chambers of manufactures. I read with interest that the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures is openly critical of what was a cornerstone of the Government's economic policies- the prices and wages freeze. Let me quote from a statement which was issued yesterday by the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures in its weekly publication. The Chamber said that it took particular interest in the movements of unemployment rates after the wages and prices freeze scheme was announced. Its monitoring showed that there was a sharp increase in unemployment immediately afterwards. In other words, the Chamber pointed out that the increase was considerably more than that experienced in the same period in the previous two years. It said: 
Almost from the day the freeze was announced, the index for factory employment started to show a fall in employment levels. 
That is a criticism, if ever I have heard one, by one of the normally great supporters of the Liberal and National Country parties. Even their own members in this Parliament are starting to give them away. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  was one of the first to give them away. He said in this Parliament on 24 March 1977: 
I cannot agree with the Government's economic policy- I am concerned with its failure to honour its promise to the private sector to give it stable and definite guidelines  I believe the small private business man is more confused, more in the dark about the future, and less confident than IS months ago. 
He said that at the time when the Liberal Party was in government. The honourable member for Hotham was a former Minister in a LiberalCountry Party government. As recently as yesterday there was a further desertion from the ship. 
The honourable member for Tangney  (Dr Richardson)  after only 21 months- not a very long time- in this Parliament has become disillusioned with the Government's economic policies and has decided to give it away and go back to his medical practice. In conclusion let me say that I can see only one salvation for this country: The Government should resign. Let us have an election, let us put it out of office and replace it with a Labor Government. 
I agree with many of the sentiments which have been ex- pressed by previous speakers, particularly theonourable member for Darling  (Mr 
Fitzpatrick), the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who has just resumed his seat. I am a deep lover of the parliamentary system and a firm believer in it, but some of the words which I will speak today will be critical. I feel that Parliament no longer is fulfilling what should be its real role in the community. There was a time when the moulding of public opinion was carried out within the Parliament, but nowadays it seems to be the fashion for it to be carried out by the media- by radio, television and the Press. I firmly believe that the Parliament is the place where public opinion should be canvassed, where public opinion should be moulded and where decisions should be made. 
Unfortunately, decisions are not always made within the Parliament. As I have just stated, decisions are pre-empted and public opinion is moulded by the media to such a degree that the media have developed a talent for creating public opinion. The stage has been reached where members of the Parliament are like players on a stage, but unfortunately it is not serious theatre that goes on within the precincts of the chamber. There has been a tendency for the proceedings of the Parliament to become almost vaudeville or slapstick comedy. If we ourselves do not take steps to improve the standard of parliamentary proceedings the parliamentary system could become a farce. I think that that would be a very dangerous situation. Any real student of history would know just how valuable the parliamentary system is and how hard it was to achieve. We as members of the Parliament should be the last ones in the world to denigrate the system for which so much blood was shed in days gone by. 
Unfortunately, we have seen members from both sides of the Parliament wanting to attempt to mould public opinion outside the confines of the Parliament. There is a tendency for them to limelight, to become television personalities, to accept invitations to appear on programs such as  This Day Tonight, Monday Conference  or  A Current Affair.  I will not include the Willesee show because I think that it has become slapstick and vaudevillian. There is a tendency for members from both sides of the Parliament to want to appear on the  AM  and  PM  shows conducted by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, to the exclusion of their activities within this Parliament. I am not firmly convinced of this, but I think that one answer could be to give more consideration to televising the proceedings of the Parliament- not as a funny show, not as a comedy show and not for the information or the joy of the people who sit up in the gallery, because they are only a very small percentage of the 14 million people who now live in Australia. I believe that we would achieve a far better presentation of parliamentary proceedings and a far more serious attitude towards them if they were televised. 
We saw a very fine example of that when the Joint Sitting of the Parliament, which was unique in the history of the Parliament, was televised. When the parliamentary proceedings were being televised there was constant attendance in the chamber, members of Parliament wore their good suits, they were on their best behaviour, no cheek was offered to  Mr Speaker  and  Mr Speaker  looked very impressive in the chair as usual. I think that if more consideration were given to the televising, not of the whole of the proceedings- I do not think that that should be inflicted on any section of the community- but of a selected portion of the parliamentary proceedings the role of the Parliament in moulding public opinion would become much greater. I put a case for televising not only the proceedings of the Parliament but also the proceedings of some of the committees of the Parliament. 
I am certain that the people who sit in the public galleries to watch the proceedings ask themselves: 'What do politicians do? Where are they? Are they in the bar again?' I can assure the members of the public who are present here today that politicians spend very little time in the bar. Let me cite a statistic that is not widely known: It takes three weeks of the parliamentary session for 18 gallons of beer to be drunk in the parliamentary bar, whereas I would say that at one good party it would take only an hour and a bit to knock over 1 8 gallons. That gives some indication of how little drinking goes on within the confines of the Parliament. 
Before I came to this Parliament I heard it said- not in fun in many cases- that it was the best and highest paid club in Australia. I can assure people that it is not the best club and it is not the highest paid club. I often wonder what it is that drives a person to want to become a member of the Parliament. It is certainly not the money; it is certainly not the working conditions; and it is certainly not the prestige of the job. If any member of the Parliament thinks that he has prestige, he is not going around his electorate. The standing of the member of Parliament in the community has been denigrated- and I say this quite advisedly- by the media which wants to take over the role of the Parliament to become the moulder of public opinion and the decision maker. It has almost succeeded in achieving that objective. It has set out quite deliberately to make the member of Parliament the butt of cartoons and through the Press to pass on the jibes of the populace. 
Despite what is written I believe that politicians I do not class them politicians as such; I would prefer to call them members of the Parliament- do an honest and honourable job. Despite the jibes of the community and the cartoonists and what is written by members of the Press who sit up in the Press Gallery looking down on us- and I use the term 'looking down on us' advisedly also- I have never seen in the eight or nine years I have spent in this Parliament a more sincere, dedicated, hard working and capable group of people, and that comment applies to members of both sides of the Parliament. 
Prior to entering this Parliament I worked for 34 years in the Commonwealth Public Service where there are also dedicated, hard working and sincere people. I put the member of Parliament in the same category as those dedicated, sincere, hard working and capable public servants. Frankly, members of Parliament are public servants. I am here as a representative of 63,000 people. I am here to do my part to assist them. Obviously 63,000 people from my electorate cannot come up here to govern. Therefore they have sent me and, I might add, they have made a wise choice. I am sure the same can be said of most members of this Parliament. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Prime Minister will recall that in his 1976-77 Budget Speech the Treasurer stated that it would be rash to predict an early reduction in unemployment. The Treasurer, in his recent Budget Speech, omitted to foreshadow any immediate reduction in the rising rate of unemployment. My question to the Prime Minister is this: When can we expect the fulfilment of his pledge of 27 November 1975 that only under a Liberal-Country Party government would there be jobs for all? Will the Government change its policy of deliberately created unemployment and cease using this tragic method of economic control? 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. He will recall that in his electorate talk last Sunday he acknowledged that inflation is commonly measured by an index of consumer prices. I ask the Prime Minister Did the Treasurer claim in his 1976-77 Budget Speech that inflation would be reduced to single digit figures by the beginning of this financial year? Has not the Consumer Price Index for the last three quarters represented annual inflation rates of 14.4 per cent, 13.6 per cent and 13.4 per cent respectively? How can he assert that the Government is beating inflation when double digit inflation still prevails? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is supplementary to that asked by the Leader of the Opposition. Is the action of the First Secretary of the Australian High Commission in Papua New Guinea in approaching Professor Brian Brogan, who had previously been a member of the staff of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, a true reflection of the capacity and capabilities of the Joint Intelligence Organisation? For how much longer will bumbling activities such as this be tolerated? 
-On 2 June 1977 I raised in this Parliament an immigration fee racket which was being practiced by a Sydney solicitor, a  Mr D.  P. Khoury who practices under the name of Benjamin and Khoury at 184 Victoria Street, Potts Point. The amount involved was $1,100 which he extracted from a  Mr Sums  Pal Narayan, a Fijian of Indian origin. No mention was made of this matter in the Australian Press. No mention was made of the racket being practised by this rapacious solicitor. Fortunately the Fiji  Times  of 15 June 1977 gave it front page treatment. So that our parliamentary record may be complete I ask for leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the matters which I raised in the Parliament on 2 June, namely letters from  Mr D.  P. Khoury, Solicitor, of 1 February 1977 and 10 February 1977, a receipt for $300 dated 16 February 1977, and a letter from  Mr Khoury  to  Mr Narayan  of 20 April 1977 seeking a further $500. I have made all these documents available to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  who has agreed to their being incorporated in  Hansard.  I seek leave to have them incorporated. 
-As a result of my raising the facts in Parliament on 2 June 1 977 the facts relating to other cases have come forward. They indicate the extent of the racket which is being practised by this solicitor. I am informed by reliable sources in the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs that this solicitor has extracted similar amounts of money from more than 600 unfortunate people who are seeking to become residents of Australia and has done absolutely nothing for any of them. Multiply 600 by $ 1 , 000. It comes to a somewhat staggering figure of $600,000. 1 would like to read out some information which I have received subsequent to my speech in this Parliament on 2 June 1977. 1 have statutory declarations. I will read extracts from someof them. I will ask for leave to have them incorporated in  Hansard.  I have a statutory declaration from  Mr Vijay  Chand Dean, who at that stage was living at George Street, Burwood. I shall not quote the exact words. I will seek to have it incorporated in  Hansard.  I will just give the facts. He gave  Mr Khoury  $250 cash on 18 March 1977 - 
He got a receipt that time. It was one of the few that were issued. On 2 1 April 1977 he gave the solicitor another $400.  Mr Khoury  did nothing.  Mr Dean  was picked up by departmental officers and told to leave. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the statutory declarations by  Mr Vijay  Chand Dean and  Mrs Nisha  Dean and letters from  Mr Khoury  to  Mr Dean  of 4 March 1977, 10 March 1977 and 20 April 1977. 
In addition, yesterday I received from Fiji a letter, which I will read out, addressed to me at Parliament House, Canberra. Strangely enough, it is from a  Mr Surus  Narayan- a different person. He is no relation to my original informant. He wrote: 
This is to inform you that I had been cheated by an Australian lawyer- 
He said 'cheated'. He continued: 

 Mr D. P. Khoury. I am sending all the particulars as my proof. After reading the letters you will know everything.  Sir, Mr Khoury  promised that he will refund my money, give my photos and my references back, but you can see what he has done. He has not done it. I have written to the Law Society of New South Wales and am attaching their reply too. 
I have a letter from the Law Society of New South Wales which I will seek later to have incorporated in  Hansard.  It says in so many words that it investigated the matter. It says: 
In this case the information you have furnished does not indicate that the solicitor's conduct is such as to require or enable the Council to deal with him under the Legal Practitioners Act or otherwise and accordingly no further action will be taken on your inquiry. 
In other words, this person who was deprived of his hard-earned money did not get much support from the Law Society of New South Wales. It would appear that the Law Society of New South Wales is intent on protecting rapacious characters such as Khoury, the solicitor. The Law Society of New South Wales in its letter to  Mr Narayan  in Suva gave him some gratuitous advice. It stated: 
However you may think it desirable to take independent legal advice as to whether in the circumstances you have any civil remedy against the solicitor and you are of course perfectly entitled to do so. 
But here is the crunch: 
But the Society is unable to give you any assistance or express any opinion in this respect. 
In other words, this man from Suva who sought to have the activities of Khoury properly investigated got the rubbish from the Law Society of New South Wales. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a letter from  Mr S.  Narayan to the Law Society of New South Wales, the reply by the Law Society of New South Wales by letter dated 4 May 1977, and letters from Khoury the solicitor to  Mr Narayan  of 28 January 1977 and 29 March 1977. 
I suggest that all of the matters I have raised today should be investigated fully not only by the Law Society of New South Wales but also by the Law Reform Commission which was set up by the New South Wales Government and, if need be, by the Law Reform Commission which was set up by the Australian Government. To me it seems that there is an open and shut case of false pretences against Khoury. I also suggest that the legal aspects be investigated by the New South Wales Police Department with a view to a charge of false pretences being laid against Khoury. 
I raise one other matter.  Mr Khoury  is not alone in the treatment which he hands out to intending migrants who come to Australia. The New Settlers Federation of Australia, the Secretary of which is  Mr Baltinos,  is also in on the racket. It charges $ 150-1 grant anyone that it is cheap by Khoury standards- plus $25 membership fee for doing absolutely nothing except exploiting would-be migrants to Australia. In this instance they are mainly Tongans, but Fijians are also included. I know that this matter is in the mind of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  but unfortunately it appears that even he can do very little. In conclusion, I say that people such as these solicitors- Khoury is not the only one- are a disgrace to Australia and a disgrace to their profession. They should be exposed and the full processes of the law should be invoked against them. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, whom I note is wearing a white buttonhole today. Is it a fact that migrants who have been advised by you as Minister that they are eligible are unable to obtain their Australian citizenship for at least another six weeks, the excuse being that there are lengthy waiting periods for private citizenship ceremonies conducted by your Department? Do these long delays mean that many migrants will not be eligible to vote at the Federal election on 10 December because of the closing of the rolls on 10 November? Is this action being deliberately taken by you as Minister to prevent eligible migrants from voting at this election? Was this action taken on your instructions as Minister? Is the Minister also aware that because of staff ceilings imposed by the Government many Commonwealth electoral officers in Sydney are unable to advise migrants from Commonwealth countries of their obligation to be enrolled and to vote on 10 
December? Was this action taken by you as Minister deliberately and with your full knowledge? 

 -Mr Speaker, in rising on this occasion I should like to pass a few remarks about the unsung heroes of this Parliament. They are the attendants around the Parliament. They are at our beck and call if that is the right phrase to use. They mother us; they look after us. They are respectful to us. Quite frankly, I think there are many times when we are not deserving of that respect. My appreciation must go to the Clerks and the whole of the Parliamentary staff, without whose help this place could not function as an efficient institution. I have heard it said- I do not believe it to be completely truethat the Parliament is a charade. If I thought that were true, I would not waste my time fighting to come back here. 
I wish to pay my respects to the retiring members. I will lead off with the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I think he is dedicated. He is dedicated to his own cause. I do not agree with him most of the time- nearly aU the time- but I do not deny him the right to fight for the cause in which he believes in the manner in which he does it Quite frankly, on the Opposition side of the Parliament we do the same thing. We believe in a cause. We fight for that cause in the manner in which we feel it can best be served. 
I pay a tribute also to the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  Honestly, when I compare him with some of the past leaders of the Australian Labor Party, I think he should have been leader. I think that had he been leader we would have got into government much earner than 1972. 1 mean that certainly as no reflection on my present leader- none at aU. In my view, the honourable member for Fremantle has the ability and the clearness of mind to portray the real issues which are resolved in this Parliament. In addition, he is a highly moral man. He fought for the cause of Moral Rearmament. He even made me drink apple cider at various dinners to which he invited me. I must admit that on those occasions I enjoyed the apple cider, even though I probably would rather have had a pale ale. 
I class the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  as my mentor. We both served in a very worthy institution, the Taxation Office. The people who serve there are not beloved by everybody. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports left the Taxation Office in 1945. When I came into this Parliament in 1969 he took me under his wing. I say to him that I ap- preciate it The thing I admire about Frank Crean is his humility. He is a true Christian. He is an elder of the Presbyterian Church and I am a practising Catholic. There was no difference of opinion between us on true Christian principles. He played a leading part in an organisation about which very Utile is known outside this Parliament- the Parliamentary Christian Fellowship. He was a fine example to many people in this Parliament, with his attitude of true Christianity. 
When I speak of his humility I do not have to go back so very long ago to find an example. Frank Crean had served in very high office. He was Deputy Prime Minister of this country. He was Treasurer, and in my view the best Treasurer we had between 1972 and 1975. He did not consider it a lowering of his prestige to serve as a member of the Public Accounts Committee of this Parliament when he was asked to do so. The Public Accounts Committee is one of the lesser recognised but most able bodies that do the work within the Parliament. Frank Crean was most assiduous and most capable, and, to my knowledge, he never missed a meeting and was always on time. 
To you, Frank, on behalf of aU those members of the earlier Public Accounts Committees I say thank you. I note that the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  is sitting in the chamber. He served as a  chairman  of those PubUc Accounts Committees with you. On behalf of the present  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee, the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  I convey our thanks to you for the work you have done not only on that Committee but also on the Standing Committee on Expenditure. I think Frank has had only one disappointment in his parliamentary career. I know that he would have loved to have his son 
Simon follow him here, but that was not to be. However, I have no doubt that in the not too distant future there Will be another Crean in this Parliament doing just as good a job as his father did. 
I should like to pay my own tribute to my  Deputy,  the honourable member for Lyne,  Mr Philip  Lucock, who has been an outstanding  Chairman  of Committees. He has served me immensely well. I take this opportunity to pay a public tribute to him and to all the other deputiesMr Armitage,  Mr Bonnett, Mr Drummond, Mr Giles, Mr Jarman, Dr Jenkins, Mr Martin  and  Mr Ian  Robinson. I pay a tribute to the Leader of the House, for I have occupied that position and know something of its difficulties. I ay a tribute to him for the manner in which he as performed his duties. I pay a tribute to the Manager of Opposition Business without whose co-operation the Leader of the House could not have discharged his duties. 
I often hear complaints that on occasions the Parliament makes noises which people wished they did not hear. I can only say that members are elected here who hold beliefs passionately and when the occasion occurs they express them passionately. This is the place for them to express those beliefs- in the national forum, the fulcrum of parliamentary democracy. If they cannot be expressed here, they will be expressed elsewhere. This is the place for debate, not the streets. 
I hear complaints that we ought to behave better. I have seen parliaments in which everybody behaves perfectly, but it is not a parliamentary democracy. Because people are elected here to speak fearlessly, without nope of favour, without threat, we must expect the Parliament to be what it is- a live organism, an institution of which we can be proud, but which nevertheless needs some institutional reform, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports said. 
I have had occasions in the House when I have wondered just what would happen next. Literacy on all occasions I found that honourable members have understood their position in the Parliament and the dignity which they must lend to it. So any tribute paid to me is really only a tribute paid collectively to all of you. I thank you for the privilege I have had to serve you. That is what a Speaker is for- to serve the members of the Parliament Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the additional amount which has been collected in PA YE income tax instalments since the introduction of the new family allowances scheme and the discontinuance of the tax deduction for dependent children. 
What period does this cover. 
What is the expected expenditure during the year ended 30 June 1 977 under the family allowances scheme. 
What would have been the expected expenditure under the previous rates payable for child endowment 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 19 October 1977: 
1 ) How many persons were registered as unemployed in Commonwealth Employment Service offices covering the electoral divisions of (a) Banks, (b) Riverina, (c) Phillip, (d) Lowe, (e) Eden-Monaro and (f) Calare at the end of (i) August 1975, (ii) August 1976 and (iii) August 1977. 
What percentage of those registered was (a) male, (b) female, (c) under 2 1 years of age and (d) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
-I would like to wish the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  well but I do not know whether congratulations are in order. I think it is most unusual for any person, irrespective of ability, to be elected to the very responsible position of  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker  without having at least fulfilled some time, no matter how short, as a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees. Irrespective of one's ability, when one is in the Chair and is under pressure, it is a very onerous job, as you well know,  Mr Speaker.  We have heard a statement from the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  who has had a long period of service as a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees. Apparently he stood down voluntarily in favour of a person he considered to be superior in ability- the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  I think there is one very disturbing feature, and I say this in no - 
-I congratulate the honourable member for Wide Bay and wish him well but I think it is important that I pay respect to the honourable member for Lyne as well. The honourable member for Lyne has shown his capacity in the Chair, his great knowledge of the Standing Orders and his impartiality. I have not always agreed with him on some matters but to my mind he has been very impartial. I think that one disturbing feature of the whole affair is the rumour which went around the Parliament after the honourable member for Lyne was defeated. Apparently it was an honest vote in the party room but it was rumoured that he had been put aside because he had been too impartial to members of the Opposition. I say advisedly that it is a tragedy if it is so and if pressure had been brought to bear by some Ministers within the party room to replace him. I do not propose to name anybody.  Mr Speaker,  as you said this morning, the person who occupies the Chair is not only the protector of the privileges of this Parliament; he is also there to see that both sides of the Parliament get a fair go. The parliamentary institution puts itself at great risk if there is any feeling that the  Speaker  or the  Deputy Speaker  or the  Chairman  of Committees has to lean to the Government side. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker. 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, concerns his reported statements at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting supporting the Prime Ministers of Malaysia and Singapore in their assessment that there will be no quick recovery in the world economy. If that is still the Prime Minister's belief, will he also concede that the prospects of substantial expansion of our exports in the near future are grim? Will he further agree that a sluggish export performance has grave implications for the growth prospects of the Australian economy? In view of these prospects will the Prime Minister reassess his Government's economic domestic policies to ensure that the Australian economy is not plunged into further recession with disastrous effects for the whole community? 
-May I express through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker  Drummond, my congratulations to the  Speaker  on his reelection to that important position and also to the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  on his election to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. However, I must deprecate the reasons which have been bandied around this Parliament for the displacement of the previous  Chairman  of Committees, the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  who has just resumed his seat. It has been said around the Parliament that he was too fair to members of the Opposition. I have not noticed this in his past actions. But even if he were too fair to the Opposition, he would be only carrying out his proper role as an occupant of the Chair, that is, to be fair to both sides of the Parliament- the Government and the Opposition. There are some Ministers of this Government who see no role for the Opposition in the operations of the Parliament. Noteworthy amongst those who think like this is the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  who is also  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party. The honourable member for Lyne has paid the penalty for attempting to prevent the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party riding rough-shod over the Opposition. 
It is said in the Bible- the honourable member for Lyne has occasionally read the Bible, particularly during his years of ministry in the Presbyterian Church- that those who live by the sword will die by the sword. The destroyers of the honourable member for Lyne, including the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party, will live to regret their actions. The honourable member for Lyne gave many years of dedicated service to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. The Parliament will be poorer for the fact that he no longer occupies that position. 
This Government stands condemned for the blight which is prevalent in this country todaythe blight of unemployment. There was barely a word in the Governor-General's Speech about it. He must have blushed when he read his Speech because, as I say, it contained barely a word about that section of the population- the 7.5 per cent  VS1 LI1V  population  II 11U U1V r,  obtain employment. Some 445,300 person were employed as at 31 January 1978 and that number is still rising and will rise further. In my electorate of Banks nearly 50 per cent of the people who are unemployed are under 2 1 years of age. Australia has the unenviable honour of having one of the highest ratios of youth unemployment rates to adult unemployment rates in the Western world. A recent survey conducted by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development shows that Australia ranked equal third in 1976 with Great Britain on this basis. Australia and Britain were third only to Spain and Italy in this ratio. What a tragedy it is to realise that that is the position. 
How hopeless the outlook must be for those young people who after many years of schooling find themselves in a situation in which they cannot obtain employment. This Government must bear the blame for this tragic situation. No longer can it hide behind the subterfuge of blaming the previous Labor Government. This Government has been in power for over two years. Whilst it carries out its existing policies, unemployment will continue to rise. This Government has placed over-emphasis on the reduction of inflation. But at what a cost? It has resulted in misery and despair for a large section of our population. There is a widespread attitude that the unemployed are out of a job largely because of an unwillingness to work. What hypocritical cant it is to claim that. It is simply not true that, at the present time, there is a job for everyone who wants to work. It is the responsibility of society, and we are part of that society, to provide employment opportunities for all the members of society. This is a responsibility which has to be borne equally by all governments, both State and Federal, employers, trade unions and all of the people who are working together or who should be working together. 
In my view, it is absolutely immoral for people willing to work but unable to obtain employment to be forced to live on an unemployment benefit which presently is below the poverty line. I urge this Government to raise the unemployment benefit to a more realistic level so that those who are receiving it as their sole source of income may be lifted above the level of poverty. I also call on the Government to expand its present programs for the training of young people in employable skills and to raise the quality of technical education facilities. It could well be that our system of education needs a complete rethinking. I know that education is a holy cow. If one criticises our education planners and our educators, it is almost classed as heresy. In my view, there is a greater need for vocational training at school and for a greater emphasis to be placed on trade training. 
Every child cannot be an academic. Someone has to do the ordinary tasks which enable society to function. Somebody actually has to do the work, a thought that does not pop into the minds of many of the academics. I have found that there is nothing more frustrating than to be within the portals of a university speaking to academics. They live in their own little dream world. They never get beyond their own portals. Until such time as we can get some of these academics out into the real world- the world in which we must battle for something- I cannot believe that we will have any change in our education systems. The minds of academics are stereotyped. They think along one line and one line only- that we must be educating people to think. I maintain that people can think. Everybody is born with the ability to think. If a person does not have the capacity to think no type of education will ever make that person think. In many cases, in my view, education is absolutely wasted. 
I believe it to be a great waste of resources to push a child or a person through 12 years of schooling, six years of which are at high school, cramming the brain with subjects that are of absolutely no use in a chosen vocation until at the age of 1 8 the person commences training possibly for a trade, possibly for an office job or possibly for an academic career. To my mind, this is a great waste of resources. It could well be that our present apprenticeship system needs to be changed. It is also a holy cow. But this would need the co-operation not only of the trade union movement; it would need also the co-operation of employers and governments. I honestly feel that we parents must also take our share of the blame in regard to education. Community attitudes are difficult to change. Parents of my age group who went through wars and depressions possibly pushed their children into academic careers feeling that these children would receive a greater monetary recompense. But I feel that too many parents for personal snob value- not snob value for the child but snob value for themselvespush little Johnny or Mary into educational pursuits which are beyond their mental capacity. I feel that this is a great danger to the child. 
I have seen children- young men and young ladies- who have completed a course of education to obtain the higher school certificates. They have completed 12 years of schooling, six at the secondary level. But they received the greatest kick in the tail when the examination results were published because they did not have the intellectual capacity to do a course of education that their parents had pushed them into. That is a tragedy for the child. I would like to see an in depth study of our present educational system to see whether in the end result society is receiving value for its education dollar. It seems to me that there must be changes in our education system itself and that government moneys must and should be spent for the benefit of the nation -for the benefit of our children certainly- but not as it seems apparent today for the benefit of school teachers- a group which is treated as another holy cow. 
I was very disappointed to note that the Governor-General's Speech made no mention of any aid to developing countries, particularly developing countries in our region. By world standards we in Australia are living in an affluent society- even under a very conservative government. We have bountiful supplies of natural resources. We have the facility to become the natural granary of the Asian region. We have surpluses of most primary products. We have cattle in abundance, so much so that we shoot them rather than give them to countries with millions of starving people. 
According to the results of a recent survey that I read, a total of 12.5 million people in the Philippines do not know from where their next meal will come and live a life of extreme deprivation. These 12.5 million people constitute 30 per cent of the Philippines national population of 43 million. How many people in Australia know even that the Philippines exists? We live here in our little enclave, and it takes a trip overseas to make us realise that in the world economy and in the world scheme of things we are non-existent. Fourteen million people live in Australia. London has more than 14 million people; so has Mexico City and so has Tokyo. Australia is just a drop in the international bucket. We are a sitting duck in the Pacific for any country that wants to knock us off. 
On 23 March 1977 I spoke in this Parliament about the drastic situation of the people in Bangladesh. If we asked the average Australian 'Where is Bangladesh?', he would say that it was a race track somewhere up in the country. I spoke about the fact that each day many thousands of children in that country starve to death because they have no milk to drink. At that time tens of thousands of good productive cows in this country were being shot because there was no market for our cattle. That shooting is still taking place. What a tragedy- in a world in which we are living in comparative affluence and so many hundreds of millions of people do not know from where their next meal will come. 
When I spoke of the tragedy of Bangladesh it did not create even a ripple in our national Press. We were too worried about whether Rocky Gattellari would fight next week, whether a horse had broken down or whether Pure Steel would win at the trots next Saturday night. We are living in a fool's paradise in Australia, and one of these days we will regret that we have not played the role that we should play in world affairs. Maybe our reason for this is that basically we are all selfish. We were born selfish. Australians are probably more selfish than most other people, I think because we are very interested in clubs. In fact Australia has the largest membership of the biggest club in the world; that is the Jack Club. I could use a crudity, but I will not do so. The motto of the Jack Club is 'Blow you, Jack; I am all right '. 
Let me say this quite seriously: If we do not use the natural resources of this country for the benefit of all mankind, we do not deserve to keep the country. If we do not populate this country as we should, we will not keep it and we will not deserve to keep it. If we will not populate it ourselves, or through migration, we do not deserve to have it. Through lack of population Australia is perishing little by little. Perhaps it is imperceptible, but it is real. Australia is an aging, dying country. It is young in years, but population-wise it is dying. Our birth rate is pathetically low. Our intake of new settlers is minimal. Over the last seven years enrolments in primary schools have decreased by 1 1 per cent. Indicative of this position is the number of school teachers who are unemployed today. The reason they are unemployed is not that we have produced too many school teachers but that we have not produced enough children. 
There was a word of sense in what was attributed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  recently, when he was reported to have said that more women should stay in the homes and produce children. But he denied making that statement, because today it is not popular to produce children; we have to give women their place in life, and that is out in the work force. How can a so-called Christian country such as Australia tolerate the mass slaughter of innocent unborn children that takes place today? I am referring to abortion. How hypocritical are those people who create a fear of the danger to life and limb in the future from the mining of uranium and yet do nothing about the preservation of the innocent unborn life. This century could well go down as the century of the double standard. Today the two-child family is the standard, and that is insufficient even to maintain our present population. The cry 'populate or perish' which was made many years ago in Australia is more urgent today than it ever was. 
I now return to more mundane but no less important matters. A member of parliament has many disappointments, not so much with the electorate which is invariably right and deserves the government it gets- and the electorate deserves this Government. Members of parliament reflect the morality of the general electorate, the people who elect them. We cannot have any better member parliament than the person in the community. By all standards the standard of the member parliament in this country is fairly high. When I speak of disappointment, I refer to the disappointment I felt when it became known to me that a former Treasurer in this Parliament, the right honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  was practising tax avoidance schemes for his own benefit when he should have been introducing legislation to prevent these rackets. Of course, this Government - 
Does the Prime Minister have any recollection of receiving a letter dated 2 December 1977 from  Mr A.  G. Moyes of IBM Australia Ltd in regard to what has now become known as the infamous computer affair? Did that letter say in part: 
It is a project of immense national value; it is a viable project; but in certain circumstances it becomes a high risk project. 
What did the Prime Minister take  Mr Moyes  to mean when referring to 'certain circumstances'? Does the Prime Minister think that  Mr Moyes  was giving him a friendly warning? Is this whole infamous affair another example of the way in which the IBM company - 
-I call the honourable member for Frankin. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Cohen's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
-I was very interested to hear the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  speaking of the responsibilities which are thrust upon the Liberal Party to protect the rule of law. I suggest that he probably would have made that statement in a better fashion had he said 'to protect the existing establishment'. After all, the role of the Liberal Party is to protect the establishment. As everybody knows, the establishment is comprised of those who have got it and who intend to hang on to it, irrespective of what happens. That is the role of the Liberal Party and of the present Government. The right honourable gentleman's role as Treasurer was noteworthy for the fact that during the whole time he held that office, not one piece of legislation was introduced, to my knowledge, which attacked the very people the Liberal Party represents- the establishment. 
I turn now to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill 1978. I remind honourable members that the Bill was introduced on 7 April 1978. It seeks to counter a series of tax avoidance schemes, as well as to introduce certain necessary technical amendments. 
The main tax avoidance scheme which this Bill seeks to counter is what is commonly called the Curran scheme whereby share traders seek artificially to create a tax deductible loss, thereby reducing their normal taxable income. I emphasise that it is an artificial device. It is the artificial creation of a loss but no actual loss is incurred at all. There is no loss in the accepted sense. It is purely an artificial device utilised for the purpose of avoiding or evading income tax. This Bill seeks also to backdate the amendments countering this scheme to 16 August 1977, the date of the introduction of the Budget when the Treasurer announced, in rather vague terms, that the Government's intention was to counter certain tax avoidance schemes, without specifically mentioning them. 
This decision to take retrospective action has caused a great deal of furore in the Press, a great deal of controversy and a great deal of letter writing by people who class themselves as protectors of the rule of law, notably the people who prepare these tax avoidance schemes and therefore have a vested interest in them. They now cry out and throw their hands in the air and say that the Government seeks to destroy a lucrative source of income that they have hitherto enjoyed. That is how it seems to me. I suggest that most of these legal theorists have a personal axe to grind because tax avoidance is not only lucrative for tax avoiders but also for tax planners. They get more cheeky as time goes on. They take a deep interest in tax avoidance schemes and call themselves tax planners. They have absolutely no morality at all in seeking to transfer to some other person the obligation of an income earner to pay tax. That is basically what they are doing. 
Before dealing with the specific matters in this Bill I think it opportune to say a few words on the morality of tax avoidance. Since taxation was introduced there has been a constant battle between the taxpayer and the tax collector. In biblical times the tax collector was the most despised of men though I would suggest that it was only because the taxes being collected by him were for the conquering nation, which in those days was the Roman Empire. In fact St Matthew was the first of the known tax collectors and he is their patron saint. At least there has been a saint amongst tax collectors. I do not think the same sort of attitude of despising tax collectors applies in present times. If anyone should be despised it is not the tax collector but the tax avoider because that person seeks to transfer to someone else his obligation to contribute towards the costs of government. 
On previous occasions I have used harsh words about tax avoiders and have said that they are bludging on the rest of the community. Indeed, that is what they are doing. The tax avoider is completely lacking in any morality because the additional tax burden is invariably thrust upon some other person who is financially less capable of carrying that burden. Unfortunately the question of financial morality never seems to receive due consideration by the courts which seem to be concerned only with a legalistic approach. The courts seek to put a blessing on tax avoidance as distinct from tax evasion. The dictum of Lord Tomlin is often quoted in support of that distinction. In the case  Inland Revenue 

 Commissioner v.  Duke of Westminster  Lord Tomlin said: 
Every man is entitled if he can to order his affairs so that the tax attaching under the appropriate Acts is less than it otherwise would be. If he succeeds in ordering them so as to secure this result then however unappreciative his fellow taxpayers may be of his ingenuity, he cannot be compelled to pay the increased tax. 
To my mind that is putting a blessing on tax avoidance. It certainly does not class tax avoidance in the eyes of the learned justice as something that should be frowned upon, nor does it suggest that the person who does avoid tax should be frowned upon for making someone else carry his burden. The learned justice called it an ingenious trick and said, 'however unappreciative his fellow taxpayers may be of his ingenuity. ' In other words, he is saying that it is an ingenious trick and he sort of compliments him for it. While ever we have this attitude in the judiciary it does not lend a serious example to the rest of the community as to where obligations should lie. Unfortunately, from various High Court cases I have read in recent times the same attitude seems to have crept into the Australian High Court of treating as ingenious these acts and devices which are practised by people to force someone else to pay their share of the tax. 
Maybe the tax avoider cannot be compelled to pay increased tax but surely there is a question of morality in this whole issue. To my mind there is no difference between tax avoidance and tax evasion, other than legalistic difference. They are both morally wrong and destroy any equity in the payment of taxation. If I may use a simple illustration, it is the same as a homicidal maniac saying, 'I did not murder the man, I only put him out of his misery', and then seeking to justify his murderous action in that way. I put the same distinction between the act of a homicidal maniac and the act of a tax evader. 
With regard to the retrospective action which this Government proposes to take to combat the Curran scheme, namely, by backdating it to 16 August 1977, the Opposition does not consider that this goes far enough. It considers that the amendment should be retrospective to at least the beginning of the financial year, 1 July 1977. An amendment will be moved at the Committee stage of this Bill to apply not only to the Curran scheme but also to all the other tax avoidance schemes mentioned in this Bill. I say this advisedly, that in fact a case may be put for making the Curran scheme amendments retrospective not to 1 July 1977 but to 1 December 1974. It was on that date that the then Treasurer, the Honourable Frank Crean, announced that the Labor Government would introduce legislation effective from that date to combat the tax avoidance schemes practised by Curran. However, the legislation was not introduced as from that date as other events interposed, and I do not need to go into the basis of them. They culminated in a change in government in December 1975. However, since then the present Government has had plenty of time to bring down the necessary legislation to close off the Curran scheme but it has chosen to make this amendment effective only from 16 August 1977 and introduced the legislation only last month. 
This Bill seeks also to counter other tax avoidance schemes such as those which exploit the gift provisions under section 78 and those in respect of dividend stripping arrangements. I note that legislation to counter dividend stripping arrangements was first brought in by a Labor government but apparently it was ineffective and additional provisions are included in this Bill. The Bill seeks also to counter manufactured or artificial losses from certain trading stock which includes shares and debentures by ensuring that for tax assessment purposes such trading stock is valued at commercially realistic values. I commend the Government for doing that. 
The measure will counter the exploitation of the primary producer averaging provisions, a device used quite widely in the community. The Opposition agrees with these amendments in principle and in practice but believes that the date of operation should be 1 July 1977 and not 7 April 1 978, the date on which it was introduced into this House. At the Committee stage the Opposition will move amendments which will have the effect of backdating the legislation to 1 July 1977. By taking this action the Opposition is putting tax avoidance planners on notice that when Labor returns to government- which will not be too far in the future- tax avoiders will receive no sympathy at all from the Labor government. 
I listened to the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  who earlier in this debate spoke of various tax avoidance devices which were used by some prominent members of the Government- I hesitate to say that they included the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the former Treasurer - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member would be well advised to hesitate in continuing to do so. 
I wonder how sincere the Government is in its statements regarding its attempts to close off the various tax avoidance devices which are in existence. Of course, the main supporters of this Government are those people who have a vested interest in tax avoidance schemes or in tax evasion. They are the only ones with sufficiently high earnings to make it profitable for them to engage in these tax avoidance schemes. Honourable members will notice that these tax avoidance schemes are not practised by the ordinary working man- the man on wages. He does not have the opportunity to practise these schemes. I think he has a higher morality than the person with money. The ordinary person has no way of getting out of paying his fair share of tax. The men and women with money and the big companies who practise these devices pass their share of taxation on to the person who can least afford to pay it. 
I know the pressures not to close off the loopholes that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  must be under from members within his Party and from Liberal Party supporters. I only hope that the present Treasurer- I limit myself to him- is stronger than his predecessors in LiberalNational Country Party governments who succumbed to pressures not to close off these various tax avoidance loopholes. Between 1969 and 1972 in this Parliament I pressured the then Government to bring in legislation to close off the tax avoidance loopholes which were costing hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue. Absolutely no action was taken in that period. We had to wait until a Labor government came into power in 1972 for the necessary legislation to be introduced to close off a series of tax avoidance loopholes. I realise that it is a never-ending battle. 
I know how hard it is for the senior officers of the Australian Taxation Office constantly to keep up with these smart alec lawyers and smart alec accountants who should display a greater morality. There are such people as doctors who take the Hippocratic- sometimes called the 'hypocritic'- oath. I often wonder whether people in the legal profession acknowledge the fact that they have a responsibility to the community as well as to their clients. We are the community and we, as members of the community, are responsible to pay for the upkeep of government. We are living under a democratic system. One of the few responsibilities we have under a democratic system is to pay for that system. Without that democratic system the society in which we live would crumble. As I have said, between 1972 and 1975 the Labor Government did introduce legislation  to close the  taxation loopholes. It has taken a long time since 1975 for any other legislation to close tax loopholes to be introduced. 
As mentioned by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who led for the Opposition in the debate on this Bill, it is not much use the Taxation Office attempting to close off each and every loophole as it is brought to its notice. It is my considered opinion and the considered opinion of the Opposition that effective action should be taken to redraft section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act to make it operative. In recent years the High Court has placed a very restrictive interpretation on that section. This has led to the situation where at the present time section 260 is pretty well inoperative. Well known cases such as the Slutzkin case really reduced that section to mediocrity. 
If section 260 is not operative to combat these schemes, I suggest quite seriously that the Government should take action to bring in effective legislation to close off these schemes at their source instead of introducing individual pieces of legislation each and every time a fresh scheme is utilised by smart taxation planners. It should not be necessary for this type of legislation to be brought in each and every time a loophole is found. I commend to the Government a scheme of discussing this matter with its advisers. I know that its advisers in the Taxation Office and the Department of the Treasury would be only too happy to bring forward proper legislation which would close off these schemes at their source. Not only would this protect the revenue; it would also lead to much better government. 
Is the Minister for Health aware of the great hardship being experienced by elderly pensioners, particularly those in convalescent homes, due to the decision of the National Acoustic Laboratory in Sydney to discontinue home visits for the purpose of testing and subsequent fitting of hearing aids? Will the Minister investigate this matter and issue instructions to re-introduce this necessary service to this disadvantaged section of the community? 

Does the Deputy Leader of the Opposition claim to have been misrepresented? 
-I do not think it is an offence under the Standing Orders. 
Gellibrand tonight became their accomplice when he said, and I think I can quote him almost verbatim, that the present Fraser Government is trying to get the States into such a situation of poverty that they will have to impose their own tax surcharge. What a lot of nonsense! I refer the honourable member for Gellibrand, for whom I have great respect, to page 15 of the Budget Speech. The factual situation is that rather than there being a state of poverty, which he endeavoured to indicate was the case, the Budget Speech reveals a different situation. The following statement appears on page 1 5 of that Speech: 
In line with the offer made by the Prime Minister at the Premiers' Conference in July, provision has been made for the States to receive $4,336. lm under the tax sharing arrangements in respect of 1 977-78. 
I note that this is over $90m more than the estimate of what the States would have been entitled to under iiic tax sharing legislation. 
A little later the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  who was then the Treasurer, said: 
The Commonwealth 's offer represents a net increase - 
Not a gross increase-  of $62 lm, or 16.8 per cent, in States' tax sharing payments in 1977-78. 
Unlike the honourable member for Gellibrand I was in a State House during the reign of the Gorton Government and the McMahon Government and part of the reign of the Whitlam Government. I simply want to say that people who stand up today and say that the States are being bled dry by the Commonwealth are talking through their hats. The States have never been better off financially. The honourable member, no matter how experienced he is in the art of sophistry, cannot conceal the fact that last financial year every State government in Australia finished with a Budget surplus. That in simple terms means thai they could not spend the money they received from Canberra. 
There have been changes of Premiers in that time. It is interesting if one looks back- the honourable member for Gellibrand did not do this- to find that the original agreement reached in April 1976 was made by six State Premiers, one of whom was  Sir Eric  Willis. But at the next Premiers Conference which was held in June 1976 there was a new New South Wales Premier-  Mr Wran.  If one likes to check the transcript one will find that not only did  Mr Wran  not ask for any of the agreements of April 1976 to be altered but also he expressed his concurrence with the deal that had been made for New South Wales by  Sir Eric  Willis. 
What a Jeremiah! He did not make the point that included in our federalism policy is a golden guarantee that the States will not receive one cent less than they would have received under the discredited Whitlam formula. 
In the time remaining to me I would like to direct my remarks to one or two other matters. One thing that the Labor Party did not praise- I can understand why it would not- was the Commonwealth Grants Commission Amendment Bill which seeks to extend the size of the Commission for the purpose of carrying out the 1 98 1 relativity review. In that Bill the Government provides for an extension in the size of the Grants Commission to give true recognition to its federalism commitment. The Government proposes to appoint three associate commissioners. Unlike the Labor Party, which would appoint all commissioners from Canberra, the government intends to appoint three commissioners, one of whom will be selected by New South Wales and Victoria and the other two will be selected by the four smaller States. That must really hurt the centralists in this Parliament. It must absolutely make them writhe in agony to know that the four smaller States will get two associate commissioners on the extended Grants Commission for the purpose of a relativity review. 
I repeat the challenge I made in Tasmania to the Labor Party in that State: If members of the State Government seriously contend it is not getting a fair share, go to the Commonwealth Grants Commission and put a case before it. Is it not incredible that although the Commonwealth Grants Commission was basically set up to look after Tasmania and Western Australia, we find that in 1978 Tasmania and Western Australia are not claimant States, nor are South Australia, New South Wales or Victoria. But what do you know, Queensland bobs up as a claimant State and gets $20m. It is just like going to a piggybank. I repeat that if Tasmania, or any other State, contends it has been robbed under the federalism policy the acid test is to go to the Grants Commission and to put the books on the table. The Treasurer of Tasmania would not be game to put the Tasmanian books on the table under independent scrutiny because, I repeat, we have never been better off financially. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether the Government of Sri Lanka presently is deporting large numbers of Tamils from Sri Lanka to southern India and whether the number of Tamil refugees exceeds 400,000. 
Is he also able to say whether the Indian Government is attempting to help these refugees; if so, by what means. 
What steps is the Australian Government taking to assist the Indian Government with this tragic refugee problem by providing technical, monetary or any other form of assistance. 
If no steps are being taken, why are they not being taken. 
Is the Government prepared to accept any of these refugees in Australia; if not, why not. 
Is the Government prepared to use its influence with the Sri Lankan Government to stop this deportation program; if so, what steps does the Government propose to take. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The July 1 crude oil price increase in the context of the Government's failure to establish a secondary taxing mechanism on oil production profits. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-The purpose of this Bill, which the Opposition supports, is to amend the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act to provide some new exemptions and to change some existing exemptions for imported goods. Honourable members will recollect that in a joint announcement the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on 30 March 1978 indicated that sunscreen preparations that provide effective protection from damaging ultra-violet rays would be exempted from sales tax. The present rate of sales tax applicable to these preparations can be as high as  27  Vi  per cent where the preparation is classed as a cosmetic, and if it is not classed as a cosmetic the rate is 15 per cent. As honourable members are or should be aware, drugs and medicines are already exempt from sales tax and it is proposed that these sunscreen preparations should also be exempted because of their importance as a preventive health measure against skin cancer, sunburn and general skin damage. 
I was interested to note that to qualify for the new exemption a preparation will need to meet two requirements. It will have to be put up and sold for use as a substance to be applied to the skin for the purpose of screening out solar ultraviolet rays. I was also interested to note in the Schedule to the Bill the expression that the preparation has to be 'put up'. I do not know what that means or what is the intention of it, and it is something that I would like the Treasurer to explain to the House when he replies to the second reading debate. There is some queer terminology in a lot of the income tax and sales tax Acts but I have never heard that expression before. A further worthwhile provision in the Bill is that a certificate must be given by the Director-General of Health certifying that the product is a preparation that provides an acceptable level of protection from solar ultra-violet rays. I emphasise the words 'an acceptable level of protection'. Available in the community today there are many hundreds of preparations which allegedly have value in providing screening from the sun but so many of them are purely useless cosmetics which serve no real purpose. 
I take the opportunity provided by the debate on this Bill to highlight the dangers of skin cancer. I commend the Government for the steps it has taken to exempt certain preparations from sales tax providing certain criteria are met. I do not suppose that it is a magnificent gesture to eliminate the present sales tax rate of 1 5 per cent, but it is a step in the right direction. It gives the imprimatur of the Government to action taken to reduce the prevalence of skin cancer. It is sad but true that Australia has one of the highest rates of self-induced skin cancer in the world. In medieval times the people worshipped the sun god. I am afraid that in Australia, even though the sun is not out today, there is a cult surrounding the worshipper of the sun god. It is also true that there is much deceptive advertising of certain preparations which are alleged to be of value in deactivating the effects of the rays of the sun. The life-giving rays that stream through our atmosphere from the sun are the principal cause of skin cancer which afflicts many thousands of people in Australia today. The relationship of sunshine to skin cancer is a graphic example of people getting too much of a good thing. Too much sunshine can be very harmful. 
The sun's energy spectrum contains rays that damage the skin and destroy its elastic fibres causing wrinkling, permanent brown patches, scaling and, what is well known to nearly everyone, sunburn. Doctors who practice in the warmer parts of Australia, particularly in northern Queensland, are very familiar with the wrinkled prune look. Looking around this House, some of the northern Queensland members have almost that wrinkled prune look themselves. It is an effect of the climate of the area of Australia to the north of the Tropic of Capricorn. The people who have that wrinkled prune look appear to have the prematurely aged skin which we often see among chronic sunbathers 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security aware that the means test for eligibility to receive the benefits of the pensioner medical service and other ancillary benefits has not altered since 1960? Is the Minister also aware of the severe hardship suffered by pensioners who, when they receive a small increase in other income, are disqualified from receiving the benefits of the pensioner medical service? Will the Minister consider up-dating this means test in line with inflation which has taken place since 1960? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 13 measures? I will allow that course to be followed. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry is in relation to plant breeders' rights, now known as plant variety protection. Is it a fact that Austalian plant breeders have been attempting since 197 1 to get the Commonwealth Government to introduce legislation to provide for plant variety protection? Has the Australian Government received legal advice that it is within its constitutional power to introduce such legislation? Did the Australian Agricultural Council, at its meeting in August 1977, give support to the proposed legislation? In view of the benefits which will flow to Australian agricultural and horticultural industries, will the Government bring down the necessary legislation in the forthcoming Budget session? 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 4- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 5 (entitlement to medical benefits). 
-I would not like to let pass the occasion of the retirement from this House of the former honourable member for Werriwa, the former Prime Minister of this country and the person whose memory has been revered by the people in Australia, particularly for the measures which he introduced for the period between 1972 and 1975. Unfortunately, the Honourable E. G. Whitlam, Q.C, did not return to the Parliament for the commencement of this parliamentary sitting. So the opportunity has not presented itself to speak of the good work which the previous honourable member for Werriwa performed in this House. It is to the credit of  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, Q.C, that by diligence, by forthrightness and by good government during the period that he was Prime Minister he placed many measures on the statute books of this country which will possibly be better recognised after he has died and is gone. I think it is true to say that history has shown that the worth of a person is seldom realised during his lifetime. I compare the Honourable E. G. Whitlam with such mighty Prime Ministers as John Curtin, the Labor Prime Minister who led Australia during the period of the last World War, and Joseph Benedict Chifley who was revered by the Australian people but who was roundly criticised by the Press during the period that he was Prime Minister of this country. He was recognised only after he had died. It is amazing to me that the Press of this country can pillory such good men as John Curtin, Joseph Benedict Chifley and Edward Gough Whitlam. 
I know that Edward Gough Whitlam was Prime Minister of this country in a time of great controversy. I also know that during those periods of controversy he stuck to his principles, the principles which he had fought for and believed in over a period of many years in the Labor movement. I revere his memory and the things which he has done in this House. I am certain that the people of Australia, when they have time to think about the great benefits which were conferred on them during the period that he was Prime Minister, will revere him also. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Does the Treasurer remember saying earlier this year that the Government adheres to the general view that retrospective legislation is normally against the public interest? If so, will he explain to the House why he now proposes to introduce retrospective income tax legislation which will tax in full a lump sum payment for accrued annual leave paid on retirement, which is presently subject to income tax on only 5 per cent of that lump sum payment? Will the Treasurer explain why he also proposes to back date the 1  Vi  per cent income tax surcharge to 1 July 1978? Can the Treasurer reconcile his present actions with the statements he made earlier this year? 
-I pose the following questions to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser):  Is it a fact that on 1 5 May 1 978  Mr Pearson,  the Chief Australian Electoral Officer, gave evidence before the Royal Commission of Inquiry of a phone call from  Senator Withers  to himself in September 1 977 in regard to the change of name of the proposed division of Gold Coast to that of McPherson? On what date was this evidence of  Mr Pearson  drawn to the Prime Minister's attention? Why did the Prime Minister delay until 30 May 1978 before bringing this evidence and other material facts within his knowledge to the attention of Cabinet? Is it a fact that on 30 May 1978 Cabinet decided to have widened the terms of reference of the Royal Commission of Inquiry into the electoral redistribution of Queensland in 1977 so that the Royal Commission could make a finding on whether any breach of the law of the Commonwealth or any impropriety had occurred on the part of any person in the course of the division of McPherson redistribution? 
Is it a fact that the Prime Minister departed from Australia on 31 May 1978-1 think in the morning- and, if not, on what date did he depart from Australia? Is it a fact that the Royal Commission of Inquiry completed the taking of evidence on 7 June 1978 and, if not, on  what date  did the Royal Commission of Inquiry complete the taking of evidence? Is it a fact that the Prime Minister returned to Australia on 19 June 1978 and, if not, on what date did he return? Is there any significance in the fact that the Cabinet decision to widen the terms of reference of the Royal Commission of Inquiry was made on 30 May 1978, which was the day before the Prime Minister departed from Australia- I think in the morning- and was this decision delayed so that the Prime Minister could be absent from Australia during the taking of vital evidence pertaining to the further widened terms of reference? 
On what date was the Prime Minister made aware of the fact that  Mr Justice  McGregor had completed the taking of evidence? Is there any significance in the fact that the Prime Minister returned to Australia after  Mr Justice  McGregor had completed the taking of evidence? Did the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  inform the Prime Minister on 16 April 1978 of the telephone conversations between  Senator Withers  and  Mr Pearson  and between  Mr Pearson  and  Mr Coleman,  who was one of the electoral commissioners? Did the Prime Minister give any consideration to the possibility that he might be called to give evidence before the Royal Commission of Inquiry? In view of his knowledge on 1 6 April 1 978 that there had been telephone conversations between  Senator Withers  and  Mr Pearson  and between  Mr Pearson  and  Mr Coleman,  did the Prime Minister give consideration at any stage to the point that he had a duty to give evidence in regard to this matter to the Royal Commission of Inquiry? If the answer to the previous question is 'no', what were his reasons for not wishing to give evidence to the Royal Commission of Inquiry? Is it also a fact that the Prime Minister was the only person present at the meeting in his room on 17 January 1978 who was not called to give evidence before the Royal Commission? 
I pose these questions to the Prime Minister and also announce my intention to place them on notice so that I shall get a reply from him. I realise that if I had merely asked these questions in the House in the adjournment debate the Prime Minister could have chosen not to answer them if he so desired. I think that he does desire not to answer them. The only way in which I can get an answer to each of these specific questions is to raise them in the House, thereby putting the Prime Minister on notice that it is my intention to put them on the Notice Paper. The Prime Minister then will have to reply to them. There has been a tremendous amount of hesitation, if I may use that word, in the answers which he has given to the Parliament in respect of certain matters. 
As the honourable member for Parramatta said, on occasions he appears to be evading the issue. The only way in which a member of the Parliament can get specific answers to specific questions is to put them on notice. That is the only avenue we have. We cannot demand an answer to a question merely by asking it as a question without notice. This is a grave matter. The Prime Minister has a responsibility to this country to answer the questions which I have posed tonight and which I intend to place on the Notice Paper so that he is forced to reply. 
-The discussion is now concluded. 
-Does the right honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-The Committee is considering the estimates for the Parliament. I wish to raise several matters in regard to the estimates which are presented to this Parliament under Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1978-79. The first matter to which I draw attention is the actual cost of running the Parliament itself. By that I mean the cost of the Senate, the House of Representatives, the Parliamentary Reporting Staff, the Parliamentary Library, the Joint House Department, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. In looking at this Appropriation Bill one finds to one's surprise that the total expenditure for the year 1977-78 for all of those departments- that is, the whole cost of the national Parliament- amounted to a miserly $14,218,786. The population of Australia happens to be more than 14 million. In other words, last year the cost of the national Parliament to the people of Australia was less than $1 per person per year. 
It is less than $ 1 per person per year. One would never think by reading the denigration put out by the media, that that is what it costs the Austraiian taxpayers. Any time that something happens concerning the Parliament itself it is highlighted as though parliamentarians are a bunch of bludgers, if I may use that term, and we are in here for what we can get out of it. There is a general denigration by the media of the parliamentary system as such. That is one of the matters to which I want to refer tonight. As I see it, the system that is gradually coming to Australia- I think it is fairly world-wide- is one whereby the media itself is seeking to usurp the power of the Parliament; the media itself is seeking to be the influencer of public opinion and to be the decision maker. 
We as parliamentarians should be consciously looking at the role of the parliamentarians. What is our real role? During the week commencing 28 August this year I had the privilege of attending the Fifth Conference of Commonwealth Speakers and Presiding Officers which was hosted by Australia. I was present for three of the five days of the conference. The role of the parliamentarian was one matter to which the Presiding Officers and Speakers of Commonwealth countries addressed themselves. Another matter which was discussed was the pecuniary interests of members of parliament. Much time was devoted to that discussion. Another matter was whether the role of the legislature is being submerged by the executive government. The paper on that topic was prepared by our own  Speaker,  the Right Honourable  Sir Billy  Snedden. I must commend  Mr Speaker  on the paper that he presented. He pointed out in fairly definite terms that we as members of parliament have to ensure that we are not submerged by the Executive; that we as members of parliament do have a role to play and we should be playing that role. It is something that has crept in in recent times and it is an offence which I think has been committed by governments of all political parties. Parliament has reached the stage that in the minds of many people it has become just a charade. I do not believe that the Parliament should ever be allowed to become a charade. 
The Westminster system, even though it is not a perfect system, is still the best parliamentary system that I have seen. The Westminster system is something that we should cherish. Certainly the Westminster system is much more desirable than some of the systems which operate in oneparty parliaments and which are so common in many countries, particularly some of the African and other developing countries where there is a one-party system and the country is still called a democracy. We have a democracy in Australia We have a democracy under the Westminster system. I think we should be very careful to ensure that we are never submerged by the Executive. We should ensure that Parliament itself does not become merely the instrument of the executive arm of government. That is something that we should be watching continually. 
Another matter discussed during that conference of Commonwealth Speakers and Presiding Officers was the role of the media, particularly in the televising of parliamentary proceedings. It was interesting to note that in Canada the telecast selected part of the parliamentary proceedings, which is controlled by the Parliament itself, has the top rating among the television productions shown at night. The proceedings are telecast at night as a re-run. The production beats all the top shows. I do not know their names, but they include American shows; and this show, if I can call it a show- the proceedings of the Canadian Parliament- is the top rating production in Canada. In my view, the standard of the members of the Australian Parliament is very high. I suppose I am being fairly modest when I say that. When one looks around the Parliament one sees that the calibre of the members of the Australian Parliament, on both sides, is very high. I think it is something of which Australians should be proud; but they are never told this because, as I said earlier, the Press and the other sections of the media seek to denigrate the Parliament without suggesting some other method to replace the parliamentary system. There is too much of a tendency nowadays to pull down an institution without ever replacing it. In my view when we get to that stage we have a system of anarchy coming in. 
I would like to deviate from that a little to throw in a few questions at which I think we all should be looking. One of them is: How effective is the organisation of the Parliament itself? By that I mean the organisation of the parliamentary departments. For example, should there be one parliamentary department to control the whole of the administrative functions of the Par.liament itself? Why should there be a separate Department of the Senate? Why should there be a separate Department of the House of Representatives? Why should there be a separate Department of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff? Why should there be a separate Department of the Parliamentary Library? Certainly, why should there be a separate Joint House Department? 
Of course, the Joint House Department has been somewhat in the news of late. It is interesting to note how it grew up. I happened to do a little research on this matter and I found out that prior to 1902 it was a Joint House Committee. By Act No. 5 of 1902 it was created a Joint House Department. From then on it has had rather a chequered history. I will not mention names but I think the story is fairly well told that there were two competitors in the field for a certain position: If my memory serves me right it was for the position of  Clerk  of the Senate. One of the competitors who happened to be senior got duck-shoved into the position of Secretary to the Joint House Department to allow the more aspiring one to become the  Clerk  of the Senate. From then on there has always been a Secretary to the Joint House Department. Whether or not that is necessary, I think it is about time that we as parliamentarians had a look at that situation. 
I would Uke to commend the  Speaker  for what he did as far as the House of Representatives Department is concerned in calling in management consultants to review the organisation of the 
House of Representatives. Arising from that, there is now a special officer- I think he is called an operations manager- who looks after the administration of the House of Representatives itself. I think that was a very good move and  Mr Speaker  is to be commended for it. Some action similar to that should be taken with regard to the whole parliamentary administrative structure because I think we are getting to be a little top heavy as far as the functions of each department are concerned. There is a permanent head for each department, each with his own little enclave and each with his own little empire. Honourable members know the story of Parkinson's law: You start with one man and end up with a department. I finish on that note on the basis that we, as parliamentarians, should be more watchful to see that the system we cherish is not broken down. 
Is the Minister for Health aware that medical research authorities in some overseas countries claim that the excessive use of salt is a contributory cause of heart disorder and the main cause of severe arthritic conditions? Will the Minister take action to have inquiries made by Australian medical research authorities to verify the validity of these claims? If the claims are correct, will the Minister initiate action in conjunction with State authorities to prevent the excessive use of salt, particularly in baby food preparations, and to warn the Australian people that too much salt is a health hazard? 
-At the outset of this debate on the Estimates there is just one point I would like to raise. It seems somewhat farcical to me, when we in the chamber debate the Estimates and make our contributions in which we put forward various propositions both for and against the various sums which have been allocated in the Estimates, that the appropriate Minister is not present. I think that the very least that honourable members of this chamber could expect is that the Minister responsible for the particular department be present in the chamber at the time when the 
Estimates are discussed. The discussion of the Estimates is one of the functions of the Estimates committees in the other place, commonly called the Senate. However, when we make a serious contribution towards the Estimates of this Parliament I think that at the very least the Minister concerned could be present. Not only should he be present but also he should make a contribution to the various remarks put forward by the various honourable members. 
Having said that, I must say that I sympathised with the honourable members for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  when he recounted the somewhat horrendous problems of his secretary in trying to perform, through the Department of Administrative Services, such a large task as the replacement of a broken-down typewriter. I could recount in a similar vein the procedures through which I had to go a couple of weeks ago when I moved from my old electorate office to another office about ISO yards further down the road. I think I could write not only a chapter but also a whole book which would be a better seller than some of Fred Daly's books. My secretary and I went through horrendous adventures in trying to get such simple things as a set of curtains or a sign. From the day I ordered it, it took 8Vi weeks to get a sign to announce to the populace in my electorate that I had moved to a new office. It took 8Vi weeks to get that sign to announce the fact that I was actually in existence at that new office. 
As for the set of curtains, I was almost at the stage of getting my wife to buy the curtain material and to make them up herself because it took seven weeks and four days to get the set of curtains put into my office. The purpose of the curtains was not to block out the sunlight but to give my constituents a certain amount of privacy. I do not know whether the reason given to me by the officers of the Department as to why they could not get me a new set of curtains but only a second hand set of curtains which had to be dry cleaned and altered is true, but I accept it as true because they were fairly senior officers of the Department. They told me that no money has been allocated this year for such things as office equipment and curtains for the offices of members of Parliament other than for those honourable members who have their offices in the capital cities. That seems ridiculous to me but apparently it is so. This is something I would like the Minister to have a look at because it seems absolutely ridiculous to me. If no money is allowed in this Budget for repairs and general maintenance in the offices of members of parliament, equipment and such things as curtains, tables and chairs will go to rack and ruin. Not only will they not be repaired but they will also collapse. 
I remember one occasion which brought about a form of temper on my part. About 18 months ago I was interviewing a constituent and in my office was a chair which I had tried for eight weeks to get picked up and repaired. The constituent sat on the chair and it almost collapsed. I am afraid that my patience gave way and after the constituent had walked out the next thing that my secretary heard was a great amount of rumbling and noise coming from my office. It was me jumping on that chair and finally making sure that it was absolutely useless for any constituent to sit on in the future. She thought that I had gone berserk. Possibly I had but it was an example of the frustration I had felt at not being able even to get a chair picked up and repaired through the Department of Administrative Services. 
Let me deal with another matter on a very serious vein in regard to the Department's estimates. I notice that the appropriation in 1978-79 for rent, office and other accommodation of Government departments amounts to the huge sum of $60,190,000. The expenditure on this item last year- in 1977-78- amounted to $51,082,651. The appropriation this year represents a substantial increase of some $9m over the expenditure last year. The thought surely must come into everybody's mind: Why is the Australian Government paying out such a large amount of money in rent when it could be and should be building its own office accommodation particularly in the outer suburban areas of Sydney? I noted that the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  mentioned the city of Townsville also. I can see no reason why all the Government departments should not be centralised in one building in the outer suburban area of Sydney. It would not be a huge complex but it would be one large building. 
I cite as an example the Hurstville area represented by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly).  It is also portion of my electorate. I cite the growth centres of Bankstown, Parramatta and Campbelltown. Would it not be more intelligent for the convenience of the residents of the area to have the departments centralised in one building? I include all the Commonwealth departments and preferably all the State government departments. It would be a huge complex but not necessarily as large or as ornate as the Russell defence headquarters which manages the defence of this nation. I understand that there are about three people at Russell for every man in the defence forces. Yesterday I quoted Parkinson's Law. We start off with one man and next thing we know we have a department. I seriously suggest that active consideration should be given to the centralising of all government departments, not only the Australian Government departments but also the State government departments. 
How much more convenient would it be for the people of Australia if this were done? After all, our constituents are the people who pay our salaries. The taxpayers- they are our constituents- put us here to represent them. How much more convenient would it be for them to be able to go into one building and find in that building the offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, the Department of Social Security, the Federal members' rooms, the divisional returning officer and Telecom. When a constituent was dissatisfied with the results he has received from any of those departments, he could just march straight in to the Federal member's rooms. He would not have to go marching down the street to some other building. Quite frankly, this is one of the roles of the Federal member of parliament. I say this advisedly as a person who has spent 34 years in the Commonwealth Public Service: It is extremely difficult for a person to break through that front counter. Even now, as a member of parliament, I would hate to have to go to that front counter of many of the Government departments and try to break through. I find it difficult enough as a member of parliament when speaking on the telephone to break through to the parliamentary liaison officer. I well remember telephoning one of the government departments. I have always said, 'My name is Vince Martin, M.P.'. The girl answering the telephone said, 'M.P.- what are you- a military policeman?' I said, 'No, love; I happen to be a member of parliament'. She said, Oh, a member of parliament'. I did not get very much further even when she said that. For that reason, I say it is most important that we should try to centralise all the Government departments in one building. Arrangements could be made and should be made with the State government departments so that we assist the people of Australia- our constituents- with the problems that they have. Surely we can do that by having the departments centralised in one building. 
I wish to speak briefly about the conveyance of members of parliament and others, the appropriation for which is set out in division 140.3 of the Estimates in the Appropriation Bill (No. 1). The appropriation for this division in 1978-79 is $4,300,000 with an amount of $4,1 19,000 being spent last year. I suggest that the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  look at the blatant overcharging which is taking place, particularly by hire car drivers, in the charges they are making for the conveyance of members of Parliament and others. I raised this matter with the previous Minister for Administrative Service. He threw the responsibility back to the member of Parliament who was using the vehicle. It is not our responsibility to either spy or check on over what period the charges are incurred. I feel that the Department itself has a responsibility to see that blatant overcharging is not taking place, particularly by hire car drivers. This is not the responsibility of members of Parliament. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The five Bills before the House are the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978, the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill 1 978, the Income Tax (Individuals) Bill 1978, the Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Bill 1978 and the Health Insurance Levy Bill 1978. 1 am afraid that the only Bill in that bevy of five which the Opposition can wholeheartedly support is the Health Insurance Levy Bill, which in fact abolishes the levy previously imposed for health insurance. At the outset may I join with the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who led for the Opposition, in decrying the attitude of the Government. It introduced these Bills into the Parliament on 28 September, which was the Thursday before the House rose, and on the first day on which the House resumes it has brought them on for debate. That does not provide an opportunity for either the Government party meeting or the Opposition party meeting to discuss in depth the Bills now before the Parliament, and I think it is to be decried that the Government is adopting such an attitude. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  spoke with tongue in cheek or with a forked tongue, if I can call it that, when he said that he was opposing certain aspects of these Bills. When we come to a vote I will be most interested to see whether the honourable member either abstains from voting or crosses the floor. It is all right for an honourable member in this Parliament to oppose Bills, but the only real test of a person's sincerity is when he puts his vote where his mouth is. If the honourable member for Denison chooses not to vote against his own Government on these issues then I think he has been speaking with his tongue in his cheek or with a forked tongue, as I said before. 
The main Bill with which the Opposition takes very great issue is the Bill altering the tax rates for the coming year. At the time of the last election I well remember the attitude of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He had been foisted into that job. At that stage he was not the Prime Minister of choice. He was Prime Minister not by choice of the electorate but by choice of the then Governor-General. As members of this Parliament and the Australian populace will remember, the democratically elected government was tossed out on 11 November 1975 by the choice of the then Governor-General. The then appointed Prime Minister of Australia, as he was prior to the December 1975 election, and my memory is very clear on this, indicated that at no stage would there be an increase in the income tax rate then applying in Australia. I have no real criticism of the present Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  because I think he has done an exceptionally good job in many areas, particularly in the area of tax avoidance. 
The Treasurer has implemented a lot of the policies which I think would have been recommended to him by the Commissioner of Taxation, and I think it is to his credit that he has done so. It is not often that I speak kindly of a Treasurer of the opposite party, but in all conscience I must give credit where credit is due, and I give him credit to that extent. At least he has taken positive steps to try to prevent some of the tax avoidance schemes which have been rampant in this country for many long years. There is only one scheme about which I wish the Treasurer would do something, and I refer to the matter of family trusts. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  has been most outspoken about the lack of action by the Government in respect of family trusts, particularly as they relate to some members of this Parliament. When the matter was raised during Question Time in the House not so very long ago the Prime Minister sought to condone the actions he had taken. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  I ask the honourable member for Banks to address his remarks to the Bills before the House. 
I am addressing them to those Bills to the extent that I am drawing attention to the fact that the Treasurer pointed out in his second reading speech that legislation had been brought down covering certain tax avoidance schemes, and he itemised them. I am pointing out that so far legislation has not been brought down on one particular tax avoidance scheme. However, I will not push that to any great degree because I know it is a rather touchy subject. I ask the Treasurer to give consideration at an early date to doing something about the family trust legislation. I could understand why taxpayers sought to prevent their estates from being cut to pieces when there was such a thing as probate legislation, when there were such things as estate duty and gift duty, but the stage has been reached when estate duty and gift duty are certainly on the way out so far as the Federal Parliament is concerned even if they are not on the way out in all the States. The need does not exist at the present time for the setting up of family trusts if the reason given for doing so is that a taxpayer wants to make sure that his estate is not dissipated. When a situation exists where there is no estate duty, then there is not the necessity for family trusts to be incorporated. I suggest that the Treasurer might give consideration to the introduction of legislation to prevent the racket, and it is a racket, of family trusts being instituted. 
As I mentioned earlier, the Prime Minister promised, in fact pledged, that his Government would not increase income tax. In citing the actual figures I refer the House to the Budget Papers which show the estimates of receipts and expenditure. I refer in particular to the figures in respect of pay-as-you-earn taxation, that is, income tax which is collected from salary and wage earners. The collections from that source during the year 1976-77 amounted to $8,528.9m. The collections from that source during 1977-78- this was in the regime of the present Government- amounted to $9,638.8m. That represented an increase of $1,1 10m. The Budget Papers presented to the Parliament on 1 5 August show that the collections from salary and wage earners in respect of PA YE tax for the year commencing on 1 July 1978 and ending on 30 June 1979 are estimated to be $10,341m, which represents an increase of $702m over the receipts from that source for the previous year, 1977-78. So it is the intention of the Government to increase its income tax collections from ordinary salary and wage earners by $1,8 12m between 1976 and 1979. That is not an inconsiderable sum. 
I have some quarrel with the honourable member for Denison who suggested that a discretion should be given to the Commissioner of Taxation in regard to the change in the legislation with respect to the taxation of long service leave and/or holiday leave, if that is what we like to call it. In the Public Service it is called recreation leave. I do not know why in the Public Service it is specifically called recreation leave. In private enterprise, in the cold outside world, it is called holidays. There must be some difference in terminology because in the Public Service one goes on recreation leave and in private enterprise in the outside world one goes on holidays. There must be a difference between holidays and recreation. I have never yet found that difference myself. To me any holiday is recreation and any recreation is a holiday. 
I say again that this Government has hoodwinked the Australian public by promising to reduce taxation. In its very first Budget after being re-elected it has increased personal income tax by a minimum of 1.5 percent. The Government has acted dishonestly. I do not say that any individual person has acted dishonestly but I say that the Government has acted dishonestly in promising to reduce income tax when in fact it has not done so. The figures which I cited earlier in my speech show that the Government acted dishonestly by promising to reduce income tax when the figures show that in fact there has been not a reduction but a very marked increase. I say also- I say this quite advisedly- that the Australian voting public are very perceptive people. There was a time when sons and daughters would vote as Mum and Dad voted, when wives voted as their husbands did. That day has gone. The present Australian voting public is very discerning. They have shown that in two ways in very recent times. They showed it, first of all, in the Werriwa by-election when there was a marked swing against the Government. Swings are against governments and not necessarily for oppositions. There was a very marked swing in the Werriwa by-election which resulted in the entry into this Parliament of an extremely good man who was previously a member of this Parliament. I refer to the present member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin).  I am most pleased to see him back in the chamber. He is a person who will add a great deal to the discussions which take place in this Parliament. The people of the Werriwa electorate showed that they are not prepared to put up with the dishonesty of any government. There was at least a 10 per cent swing against the Government in the Werriwa by-election. 
I do not need to go back further than last Saturday to make my second point. Even though Wran was the man in New South Wales, I feel that the result of the New South Wales State election was a demonstration by the people of New South Wales that they were dissatisfied with the performance of this Government, in particular with the Budget it brought down and more particularly with the matters which we are discussing at the present time. There is no more sensitive nerve in a person's body than the hip pocket nerve. Possibly the greatest Prime Minister Australia has ever had, Ben Chifley, said that what brought him undone was his attack on the hip pocket nerve. That is what will bring this Government undone if it keeps attacking the hip pocket nerve. I hope it comes undone, even though I do not want to see the hip pocket nerve of the average Australian being attacked to an excessive degree. 
I think an examination of the figures will reveal that even though the subject of the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill which is before the House is the 1 .5 per cent across-the-board tax increase, the amount of increase for the average and middle income group works out at much higher than that 1.5 per cent. I have seen figures which show that the 1.5 per cent increase in tax results in an average income earner receiving $10,000 a year paying an extra $200 a year in tax. In actual fact that works out to be an increase of 8.5 per cent in tax. It is blatant dishonesty on the part of the Government, in seeking to establish a 1.5 per cent increase in tax, in actual fact to increase it by 8.5 per cent. 
At this stage I wish to say something in regard to tax avoidance schemes because it is a subject mentioned by the Treasurer in his second reading speech on the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 [No. 2]. He in fact claims credit- I think rightly so- for the foreshadowing of legislation which deals with many of the tax avoidance practices. In his second reading speech he lists the various schemes in relation to which he has either foreshadowed legislation or has brought down legislation for the purpose of stopping these illegal tax avoidance practices. I suggest to the Treasurer that he also give serious consideration to altering section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. If my memory serves me correctly, that section has been in that Act since before 1936. It should be remembered that income tax was introduced in 1918 only as a temporary measure. It has been with us from 1918 to 1978, a period of some 60 years, but it was introduced only as a temporary measure in 1918 to finance the First World War. I think we have to live with that because I do not see the day ever corning when income tax will cease to exist. 
In drawing attention to these tax avoidance schemes which are very rampant in the community at the present time, I think it would be true to say that there is something radically wrong with a society which seeks to avoid by any means within its power its taxation liability. I think that leads to another question which we can ask ourselves: Is the society in which we live really sick? Is it a sick society? I am inclined to the view that it is a sick society. I say that having in mind that a certain section of the community is seeking, by fair means or foul, to pass its taxation responsibilities on to another section of the community which is in a worse position to bear those responsibilities. 
The taxpayers concerned are not the only ones at fault. There is also something wrong with the profession. I can recall another honourable member today drawing attention to the matter. He was a practitioner in the accounting profession. I was on the other side of the fence before I came into this House in that I worked in the Taxation Office. I believe that there is something wrong with the taxation profession when it holds seminars and when it seeks to induce people to try to escape from their taxation liability. But is there something wrong with the ethics of the people concerned with taxation, whether they be in the accounting profession or whether they be in the legal profession? I think there has been a severe decline in the ethics of such people. The methods employed by the practitioners- I call them that for want of a better name- are certainly parasitical. They are encouraging parasites in the community. On occasions I have called them bludgers but I think 'parasites' is a much nicer word. At least a parasite is an insect. I do not know what a bludger is. It has some connotation but I am not certain what it is. I call them parasites because an insect is an insect and the legal practitioners and practitioners in the accounting profession are encouraging these parasites- that is what they are- to enforce and to transfer their just liability onto other people who are in a less fortunate position to bear that responsibility. 
I think it is axiomatic that in any government there is a certain amount of revenue which has to be collected and it has to be collected proportionately over the section of population which can afford to pay that proportion of taxation. If somebody else has to bear that unfair proportion it means that the person who is forcing that other person to do it is a parasite. I think that the Act is in very great need of redrafting. I think that has come out of all the legislation that has been before this House. The Income Tax Assessment Act was simplified in 1936, is now four times as big, and it has been simplified ever since. I think what is needed is a real look at the Income Tax Assessment Act; it needs to be redrafted. I well remember the words of Chief Justice Dixon many years ago in a High Court case when he was asked to define income. He said: 'If I was asked to define income I would say income is what comes in'. I think if that was a definition in the Income Tax Assessment Act we would not have any of the problems we have today. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the Minister seeking leave to incorporate the letter in  Hansard? 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 3 February 77 
DearMrUren, 
In Parliament on 9 December 1976 you asked a Question about British experiments at Maralinga in the late 1950s and early 1960s. I promised to make inquiries and respond to you before Parliament resumed. 
This important matter, which is essentially one of longterm environmental management, has become confused and distorted by several unfounded allegations, in particular that an unexploded nuclear weapon is buried at Maralinga; that radioactive waste was brought from British nuclear power stations and buried at Maralinga; and that about 800 tonnes of nuclear waste material, including plutonium, is buried at Maralinga, which is what the South Australian Minister for Mines and Energy was reported on 20 December 1976 to have said. 
Thorough investigations of all the records and evidence taken from Australian officials who held responsible positions at the time have revealed no evidence at all supporting or in any way substantiating these allegations. 
The radioactive debris at Maralinga is derived from three sources- British nuclear tests and experiments carried out in that area some fifteen to twenty-five years ago; washings from British service aircraft which participated in the nuclear tests at Christmas Island in 1957-58 and which later flew to Edinburgh airfield for cleaning and maintenance, and nuclear medical waste from the University of Adelaide. 
This debris was disposed of in various ways, including storage in steel and lead boxes, burial in pits, covering with massive concrete slabs, ploughing in, and fencing and area control. While it is true that some 800 tonnes of rubble are buried in 21 pits, this contains some 20 kilograms of plutonium and it is a mistake to describe it all as 'nuclear waste material'. 
These arrangements were incorporated in a report by the British Government so that residual radioactivity at sites of their tests would be recorded for posterity. This report, issued in 1968, is held by both the Commonwealth and South Australian Governments. 
Surveys of the Maralinga area were undertaken in 1967 and 1 972 by the Atomic Weapons Test Safety Committee. In December last year Professor H. J. deBruin of Flinders University accompanied a party of South Australian Department of Health officials on a survey in and around the Maralinga township. He reported 'that no trace of radioactivity in excess of natural background radiation was detectable on or near the dump '. 
These past surveys have not to date established a requirement for any Government to institute additional or different control and safety measures. But the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council recently recommended- in December 1976- that a further survey be made and the Government is taking steps to arrange this. 
Should a need for any new measures become apparent this Government, and I have no doubt its successors, will take appropriate action. I know that you will agree that this matter must be kept under regular review and brought regularly to the attention of the Government of the day by AIRAC or its successors in the future. 
You referred also to the 'moratorium' during which the British Government, along with the U.S. and Soviet Governments, accepted a self-imposed obligation to refrain from the testing of nuclear weapons. This lasted from September 1958 until September 1961, when, you will recall, the Soviet Government resumed testing of nuclear weapons. During this period the then British Government conducted various experiments at Maralinga. The details of these experiments were, and remain classified. The British Government has advised that: 
No atomic devices were exploded during the moratorium on nuclear weapons testing between 1958 and 1 96 1 , and no unexploded nuclear device was buried. ' 
I do not consider that a Royal Commission is required into these matters or could serve any useful purpose now. The forthcoming environmental survey should add further data assisting governmental decisions about the continuing secure management of the material at Maralinga. As I say, it will be important to keep under regular review the adequacy of the protective and control measures in the Maralinga area. 
Yours sincerely, 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering each of these measures? That being so, I will allow that course to be followed. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report describing orthomolecular megavitamin treatment on page 12 of the Sydney  Sun  on 2 1 August 1 978. - 
If so, does the writer claim that a psychiatrist monitoring blood levels of vitamins A, B group, and C has found enormous doses are required to maintain normal levels in some patients, especially with chronic psychosis. 
Has this treatment achieved a dramatic drop in average stay from between 6 and 12 months to between 3 and 5 weeks with a tenfold increase in bed turnover in a 60-bed chronic psychiatric ward. 
What action has been taken by the National Health and Medical Research Council or other authorities or professional organisations, to confirm these claims and to facilitate the blood vitamin assays involved. 
-The Committee has before it the estimates for the Department of Education for the financial year 1 978-79. It is expected that $492,632,000 will be spent this year on education generally. That figure represents the Commonwealth's share of the cost of education. When we add to that cost the amount expended on education by the States, we find that the education vote for the whole of Australia represents a tremendously large part of the money expended by both the Commonwealth and the State governments. I often wonder whether or not the funds we appropriate to education are spent wisely. In this modern day there seems to be a tendency for various bodies and organisations to get in for their share of the cake. I often wonder whether in these times education gets more than its fair share of the cake. I realise that in saying this I am treading somewhat on the corns of educationists because education has become a holy cow and anybody who speaks against it is looked upon as almost a pariah in the community. I think we have to be realistic in regard to the amount of money we provide for education. We have to look at areas of expenditure other than education. Also we have to have a decent, hard look at whether the funds being allocated to education are being spent wisely. 
Not everybody has the capacity to attend a college of advanced education or a tertiary institution. But if a person has the academic ability to be able at least to try to further his education by attending a college of advanced education, a technical college or a tertiary institution, he should have the opportunity to do so. As against that, one often wonders whether the funds that are allocated for education are being spent too much on teachers and not enough on children. I know that it is not really popular nowadays even to talk along those lines but I often wonder whether teachers themselves realise that after all education is provided for children and not of necessity only for teachers. Whether children are getting their fair share of the funds that are allocated for education is a matter for discussion, I think, and it is a matter to which we as members of parliament should give a great deal of thought. Education is for children. I think that if we have a decent look at the amount of money which is made available for education, we should also have a decent look as to how that money is allocated. 
I have felt for many years that in the area of education far too much money is spent on what is called 'pure' education and an insufficient amount is spent on technical education. I know that it is very difficult to arrive at a mean. At what stage does one cut off from general education and at what stage does one try to train people for a job in life? I think we have gone to extremes. In the United States of America there is an overemphasis on tertiary education and there are doctors of philosophy by the thousands who cannot get a position because they are overeducated. There is also a tendency for people in my age group- I left school at 14 and educated myself later in my own time- who were reared during the Depression years when the opportunity for a complete education was not available, to go overboard where their children are concerned. It has become a matter somewhat of snob value, not so much to children as to parents, to be able to say that 'my little Johnnie' or 'my little Mary' is going to university even though little Johnnie or little Mary will probably never finish university because they were pushed there by their mothers or fathers. 
I think that is a tremendous waste of monetary resources. Educationists will say- they have said to me- that, even though a person fails, he has been educated. I cannot see that point. I feel that financial resources in any system are limited and we have to make the most of what we have. Having said something on education generally, I feel that we have to look very closelyparticularly the unions and the employers together- at the field of technical education. We have an apprenticeship system which has become somewhat of a holy cow. Employers are finding it extremely difficult financially to employ apprentices. The ordinary employer in private industry is finding it so financially difficult that, despite inducements offered by various governments, he is not taking his fair share of the number of apprenticeships that should be made available to the community. Consequently, the responsibility for the education of apprentices is left largely to government enterprises. I think it is about time that unions, employers and employer organisations got down and had a very hard look at whether technical training or a method for people to go into the work force is best served by our system of apprenticeships. 
I have my doubts as to whether the apprenticeship system is the be all and end all as the best method of training people to come into the work force. To my mind, it would be a far better system to have the prospective students who want to go into the technical field streamed off at a much earlier age than at present. At present it is normal for a young man or young lady who wants to go into the technical field, preferably through an apprenticeship, to do the school certificate at 16 years of age. In most cases their subjects do not cover any of the particular lines of education which would fit them for their later life in the apprenticeship or trade in which they will seek to be employed. I think it is about time that we had a good, cold, hard look at our education system, particularly with the idea of streaming off boys and girls at a much earlier age and putting them through courses which would fit them for the employment for which they have some bent. 
In the last couple of months I have come back from a tour to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I saw many good things and many things with which I was not particularly impressed. One thing with which I was impressed was the education system. If the Soviet education system has a fault, I think it is that there is a tendency for the children at present to be over-educated. Whilst I criticise our system in Australia for overeducation, I think I have seen a greater measure of it in the Soviet Union. In the education system there at present every child must be educated through the full high school system and must do all the academic subjects up to the equivalent of year 12. It is only at 18 years of age that they find their way into the work force or further levels of tertiary or trade education. I think the Soviet Union system is probably showing the benefit of that over-emphasis on education because at present it appears to be the leader in the scientific field. Australia is a much smaller nation and I think we have to husband our resources much more than we have done in the past. We must use the money that is available to its best value. I am not certain that our funds are being used in that way now. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware that the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney Committee Study Information Bulletin on the feasible development options for Bankstown Airport indicates that it would be possible for jet aircraft up to a Boeing 727 size to land and take off at Bankstown Airport? In view of the grave inconvenience already caused to people resident in areas adjacent to Bankstown Airport by aircraft noise, can the Minister give an assurance that there is no possibility that the present role of this airport will be changed to allow intrastate, interstate or international aircraft to use Bankstown Airport either now or in the foreseeable future? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 27 September 1 978: 
1 ) Has he asked each of his Ministers (a) to declare his or her pecuniary interests and (b) whether or not he or she has a family trust. 
If the answer to part (1 ) (b) is in the affirmative, will he advise which of his Ministers have a family trust. 
-I am sure that the correction will be made. 
-The discussion has now concluded. 
-Because the Opposition and the Government are in agreement on the need for the measures before the House, I shall not speak at great length upon, them. The support by the Opposition is very reluctantly given. It does not feel that the Government is facing up to the real problems of the motor vehicle industry. I would like to trace briefly the history of the Sales Tax Amendment Bills, which number nine in all. Their purpose is to reduce from 27!6 per cent to 15 per cent the rate of sales tax on passenger motor vehicles. Primarily, those reductions will have application to sedan motor vehicles, station wagons and taxi cabs. It is remarkable that nine Bills should be necessary to introduce such a change, but unfortunately Australia suffers from a Constitution, not physical but political, that was worked out in the horse and buggy days of 1901. We are still suffering from it just as we suffered from it in 1 975. We have been suffering from it since 1 90 1 . It is necessary to bring in nine different Bills because a sales tax must be introduced in respect of each class of transaction. The separation is necessary in order to meet the constitutional requirement that an Act which imposes taxation shall deal with only one subject thereof. 
It is interesting to note that since September 1975 only three sales tax rates have applied in Australia. The lowest rate,  2lh  per cent, applies to goods which are normally used for household purposes. There is also what is called commonly the general rate of 15 per cent. Then there is the higher rate, of  21 Vi  per cent, which is considered to be a special rate covering non-essential goods. There was a time when a motor vehicle was considered to be non-essential just as a razor blade once was. What is almost a luxury rate of 27V4 per cent has applied to things such as cosmetics for our female counterparts. Without those cosmetics, our female counterparts would not look as good as they do. It is interesting to speculate as to the reason why there should have been a tax rate of 27VS per cent applying to motor vehicles in the first place. The Government I think for good reasons which it announced in the Budget has decided that it will be reducing the rate applying to motor vehicles from 27!/i per cent to 15 per cent. As I said earlier, we do not oppose the Bill. While we support it, we do not consider that it provides the solution to the problems which confront the motor vehicle industry. It is interesting to note that on 8 May 1978, some three months only before the Budget was brought down, the Opposition raised for discussion as a matter of public importance: 
The Fraser Government's failure to respond to the crisis in the Australian motor vehicle manufacturing industry, with appropriate policies to improve consumer demand and provide a viable future with resulting employment security. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who has just resumed his seat, led for the Opposition on that particular occasion. 
He did make a very good speech. I took the opportunity tonight to read that speech which he made on 8 May 1978. Amongst other things, he had this to say: 
The Whitlam Labor Government commenced the long and difficult task of providing Australians with manpower programs, with job training, retraining, relocation and income maintenance schemes. 
He made that statement and it has never been as true as it is today. He said: 
For all intents and purposes these progressive measures have been dismantled by a Fraser Government . . . 
How true that is. We see today tax that the motor vehicle industry is only one of the many industries in Australia which are suffering from the machinations of the Fraser Government. The first action that it has taken to try to repair the harm which has been caused to the motor vehicle industry is to introduce this Budget measure of reducing sales tax from  21 n  per cent to 15 per cent. The honourable member for Adelaide also had this to say: 
Firstly, we must have a growing consumer demand for these cars. 
The honourable member for Adelaide is a prophet in his own country. He had that to say on 8 May 1978, three months before the Budget was brought down. The present Budget came down on 15 August. The Government obviously agreed with him because it introduced all these sales tax measures, which reduced the rate of sales tax from  21Vi  per cent to 15 per cent. The honourable member for Adelaide also had this to say: 
The only way of getting that growing demand - 
He was talking about motor vehicles: 
. is by the national government improving consumer demand immediately by reducing sales tax. 
He was followed by one of the leading speakers for the Government, the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr McPhee)  who is the Minister for Productivity and whose area of expertise encompasses or should encompass the motor vehicle industry. Notwithstanding the very fine words of wisdom of the honourable member for Adelaide about the reduction of sales tax, the Minister for Productivity said that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  had said that the cost of the reduction in sales tax could easily be managed. He said: 
Another example of the Opposition's failure to learn from its experience in government can be seen from this remark. Is  this $250m  - 
He was referring to the loss of revenue caused by a reduction in sales tax: 
. to be an additional cost to the inflationary Budget deficit? If not, where would the Opposition raise this $2 50m? 
He also said: 
To mislead consumers into believing that sales tax is going to be cut is to damage consumers themselves. It will damage the health of the industry and the health of all those about whom the Opposition purports to be concerned. It will damage the morale and the security of employment of the people in the work force, because the more the Opposition talks about the prospect of a sales tax cut, the more people will refrain from buying a car in case the price is going to be reduced. 
Some three months later the Government brought in a measure to reduce the sales tax from 27W per cent to 1 5 per cent. I say in all seriousness that the reduction in sales tax is still only a palliative. It is not a solution to the problems of the car manufacturing industry. It is not the real answer to the problems. What is needed is a proper policy package to be worked out to deal with the real problems which affect the motor vehicle industry itself. There are real problems in the motor vehicle industry. Do members of this Parliament realise that we have more car manufacturers in Australia for a population of a mere 14 million people than there are car manufacturers in the whole of the United States of America which has a population of 260 million people? Let me emphasise that point: We have more manufacturers in Australia for 14 million people than has the United States of America for 260 million people. The simple answer is, of course- everyone knows what the simple answer is- that we have far too many companies in 
Australia manufacturing motor vehicles. But the problem arises as to which motor vehicle manufacturing company has to go; which motor vehicle manufacturing industry has to move out of one State. Certain States of Australia and certain areas within those States are over dependent on particular types of industry and in particular the motor vehicle industry and the component parts industry associated therewith. This situation applies particularly in the State of South Australia and to a lesser extent in the State of Victoria. It does not apply so much in the larger manufacturing State of New South Wales. 
The Government has to get down to its task as the previous Labor Government was doing at the stage when it was summarily dismissed from office on 1 1 November 1975. We have only three days to go to the anniversary of that dastardly deed. This Government has to get down to its task and face up to the cold hard realities of deciding which of the particular manufacturers in the motor vehicle industry have not so much to go to the wall but have to cease manufacturing because the economy of this country cannot stand the number of car manufacturers that we have today. 
Whilst the Opposition reluctantly agrees with the measure before the House- we do not oppose it; we support it- I say that it is only a token support to the extent that it is only a palliative. It is not the real answer to the problem. It is only a short term measure to try to allow the motor vehicle industry to pull out of the mess that it is in at present. It is in a real mess. Until such time as the Government gets down to the cold hard task of deciding which of the particular companies have to cease manufacturing, the motor vehicle manufacturing industry in Australia will not achieve any firm basis at all and it will not reach a stage where a company can manufacture with confidence knowing that it can dispose of the vehicles that it is producing. Until the Government faces up to that reality, we will have a stop start situation applying to the motor vehicle manufacturing industry which is not good for not only the people employed in the industry but also for the industry itself. The Government is in power; it has to exercise that power. It is absolutely no good just sitting by and saying: 'We will just adopt a stop start attitude; we will just adopt short term policies'. It has to look to the long term future of the motor vehicle manufacturing industry. 
We need a healthy and very progressive motor vehicle industry in Australia but we certainly do not need the number of changes in motor vehicles models which are made in Australia. We do not need a different motor vehicle every year. We do not need a whole series of new models and new types to appeal to the fads of people. The expense of maintaining even the spare parts in an industry such as this is well beyond the population of 14 million which we have in Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time. 
-The Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 has a simple and clear-cut purpose. The Bill is designed to amend the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 193S to provide exemption for goods for official use and not for sale by the Government of the Northern Territory. The first schedule of the principal Act of 193 5 sets out the various categories of goods that are exempt from sales tax. At the present time, item 74 of the first schedule provides exemption for goods for official use and not for sale only for Commonwealth and State government departments and Commonwealth and State government authorities which are completely controlled by and the expenditure of which is exclusively borne by those governments. 
The Government of the Northern Territory was formed on 1 July 1978. Prior to that date goods for official use and not for sale by Commonwealth Government departments and authorities in the Northern Territory qualified for exemption under this provision. However, item 74 does not extend at present to goods for official use and not for sale by the Government of the Northern Territory which came into being on 1 July 1978. This Bill proposes to amend item 74 to bring the Government of the Northern Territory within its scope. The amendment to item 74 proposed by clause 3 of this Bill is designed to ensure that exemption will also apply under that item to goods for official use and not for sale by departments of the Goverment of the Northern 
Territory and authorities which are completely controlled by and the expenditure of which is exclusively borne by that Government. This will place the Northern Territory Government's departments and authorities in the same position as regards sales tax as Commonwealth and State government departments and authorities at the present time. The Opposition does not oppose this measure. It commends the Bill to the House. 
-Five taxation Bills which are now before the House are being discussed, two of them being income tax assessment Bills. I will direct my remarks primarily to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978. When the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  introduced this Bill on 8 June 1978 he said: 
The Bill . . . contains further measures to counter tax avoidance and to improve the equity and balance of the income tax system. 
I am pleased to note that this Bill contains provisions to encourage investment in Australian films. It deals with current year losses and rebates on dividends that are received as part of a dividend stripping operation so as to counter tax avoidance situations. It also contains provisions to impose a branch profits tax. To the extent that this Bill sets out to counter tax avoidance schemes, the Opposition does not quarrel with it and it certainly does not oppose the legislation. It also does not oppose the provisions of the Bill which set out to encourage investment in Australian films. This is a very worthwhile effort that is being taken by the Government and I only hope that it succeeds in its objectives. 
In recent years there has been a great upsurge in the Australian film making industry. I might claim credit for the Whitlam Government which, after it came to office in December 1972, set out to introduce measures to encourage the Australian film making industry. Some States have followed the example of the Whitlam Government. The Labor Government in South Australia is particularly noteworthy for the efforts that it has made to encourage the industry. Films of the calibre of  Picnic at Hanging Rock  are evidence of the types of films which can be made quite successfully in Australia by the Australian film making industry, provided of course that sufficient encouragement is given to produce worthwhile films and not muck. I am pleased to see that the bulk of the films which have been produced in Australia have been worthwhile.  Picnic at Hanging Rock  is a particular example. It is a very worthwhile film and many other films that have been produced subsequently have received almost rave notices from the international film industry. 
As the honourable member for Macarthur points out,  Caddie  is an extremely good film. It goes to show that provided sufficient incentives are given to people in the industry and provided they can get a reasonable financial return from money invested, capital can and wil be made available. History has shown that there are sufficient good actors and actresses in Australia to provide worthwhile Austraiian films. We also have sufficient producers, directors, cameramen and supporting staff in the industry. I well remember discussing in early 1972 with an old friend who was in the film industry the possibility of encouraging a worthwhile film industry in Australia. This old friend of mine was somewhat of a cynic. He was Chips Rafferty, who was rather a Jack Blunt as well as being cynical. He was very blunt and very cynical of politicians. He made the statement that politicians, for many years, had held out hopes for incentives to be provided and assistance to be given to the Australian film industry but nothing worth while had been done. This was before the Whitlam Government was elected in December 1972. 
I discussed this matter with Chips Rafferty one day when he was wearing a sarong and hosing the front garden. He was my daughter's landlord. On a rather warm summer day in December at Vaucluse Chips had a long sarong around his paunchy stomach which had been built up with the best Australian brew- I think Tooths KB Lager had built him up into the fine figure that he was. Chips was out there hosing the garden and ranting and raving about what a bunch of bludgers Australian politicians were. That was before he found out that I was a politician. But that did not change his ranting and raving. He still ranted that the Australian film industry had been led up the garden path by politicians for many many years and that neither I nor a Whitlam Government, if it ever got into office, would be able to do anything about it. But Chips was made to eat his words in later years and he helped to assist in building up the Australian film industry. 
He had been in the Australian industry for many many years before the Australian Film Commission was created by the Whitlam Government. Even when that was created, he still had his doubts about anything happening. But he lived to see the day when the Australian film industry did become a worthwhile project. Fortunately he did live long enough to see that industry make worthwhile developments. He also played a useful part in those developments. As I said before, the early upsurge in the industry came after the Australian Film Commission was set up by the Whitlam Labor Government. If the measures introduced by this Bill have a similar effect, then I say quite advisedly that they will be most worth while. 
This Government claims to be lending significant support to the Austraiian film industry and to all those people who are engaged in it by the measures it is introducing in this Bill. Briefly, these measures will allow capital investment in Australian film rights to be written off over a two-year period, instead of, as at present, over a much longer period of up to 25 years. This should, and hopefully will, encourage a greater investment and participation by Australians in the production of Austraiian films. An Australian film, by definition, is one which has been made or is to be made wholly or substantially in Australia, and has a significant Australian content. I congratulate the Government for inserting such a provision in this Bill because I do not believe that we should be assisting overseas film industries to develop films in Australia if they are to be the ones to gain the advantages from those films. We have to encourage the Australian film industry to do its own development work, its own spade work, in developing the Australian film industry. The Australian film industry has come a long way in the last five years. With the assistance that is provided in this Bill, hopefully it will go a lot further in the next five years. 
However, it is noteworthy that any time steps are taken to grant a tax benefit to any section of any industry it becomes necessary to guard against misuse of that benefit for tax avoidance purposes. I am pleased to see that this Bill has taken steps to prevent misuse, for tax avoidance purposes, of the measures which are being introduced to grant assistance to the Australian film industry. One would think that it should not be necessary to take steps to prevent tax avoidance, even with a concession of this nature, but unfortunately it is necessary. I say that it is symptomatic of the tax avoidance minds of skilled advisers who would do anything for a fee. That applies to some accountants, some lawyers and some other tax avoidance experts. They will do anything for a fee. It is necessary for the great bulk of people to be protected from having to share additional tax which has been thrust upon them by the machinations of such tax advisers. 
Even in recent times, despite the measures which this Government has taken, advertisements on how to avoid tax have still appeared constantly in the Press. It is not called 'evasion'; it is called 'avoidance'. I have often wondered what is the difference between 'evasion' and avoidance'. 
'Evasion' is not in accordance with the law and 'avoidance' is the nice way of saying that it is not evasion. But to my mind avoidance' still carries the same stigma. It still carries the same benefit to those people who shirk their responsibilities for the amount of tax they avoid paying. In the  Australian Financial Review  of 12 September this year, a half-page advertisement appeared advising of a one-day conference on special incentives and tax shelters. 
It referred to 'New Horizons on Tax and Investment Planning'. One of the statements in that half-page advertisement was as follows: 
A realistic future orientated assessment of tax and investment planning in Australia cannot be complete without a working knowledge of the scope for legitimate tax minimization and the potential of tax sheltered investments. 
Among the subjects for discussion by skilled barristers at law were: 
Tax Shelters and Special Incentives in Australian Income Tax Law: Opening Pandora's Box. 
Presumably Pandora is a female because she has a box. Obviously Pandora's Box has been opened many times, if one takes into account the number of Bills that have been introduced in this House to close that box, in other words, to close off tax avoidance schemes. Another topic for discussion, as mentioned in the advertisement, was: 
Variations on a Tax Shelter Theme: 
Forestry Operations, Macadamia Nut Plantations, Wheat Pooling, Bulbs, Wineries, Indoor Plants, et cetera. 
So apparently nothing is sacred. Not even Macadamia nuts or indoor plants are sacred. They all come within the realm of the tax planner, the taxminimiser. I notice that on page 39 of today's  Australian Financial Review,  the following advertisement appears: 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
Did  Mr Pearson,  the Chief Australian Electoral Officer, give evidence before the Royal Commission of Inquiry into matters in relation to the 1977 electoral redistribution in Queensland, on 15 May 1978, of a telephone call from  Senator Withers  to himself in September 1977 regarding the change of name of the proposed Electoral Division of Gold Coast to McPherson. 
If so, on what date was this evidence of  Mr Pearson  drawn to his attention. 
Did he delay until 30 May 1978 before bringing this evidence and other material facts within his knowledge to the attention of the Cabinet. If so, why. 
Did Cabinet decide on 30 May 1978 to have the terms of reference of the Royal Commission of Inquiry widened so that the Royal Commission could make a finding on whether any breach of the law of the Commonwealth or any impropriety had occurred on the pan of any person in the course of the redistribution of the electoral division of McPherson. 
Did he depart from Australia on 31 May 1978. If not, on what date did he depart from Australia. 
Did the Royal Commission of Inquiry complete the taking of evidence on 7 June 1 978. If not, on what date did it complete the taking of evidence. 
Did he return to Australia on 19 June 1978. If not, on what date did he return. 
Is there any significance in the fact that the Cabinet decision to widen the terms of reference of the Royal Commission of Inquiry was made on 30 May 1978, which was the day before he departed from Australia, and was this decision delayed so that he could be absent from Australia during the taking of vital evidence pertaining to the further widened terms of reference. 
On what date was he made aware of the fact that  Mr Justice  McGregor had completed the taking of evidence. 
10) Is there any significance in the fact that he returned to Australia after  Mr Justice  McGregor had completed the taking of evidence. 
Did the Attorney-General inform him on 16 April 1978 of the telephone conversations between  Senator Withers  and  Mr Pearson  and between  Mr Pearson  and  Mr Coleman  who was one of the Distribution Commissioners. 
Did the Prime Minister give any consideration to the possibility that he might be called to give evidence before the Royal Commission of Inquiry. 
13) In view of his knowledge on 16 April 1978 that there had been telephone conversations between  Senator Withers  and  Mr Pearson  and between  Mr Pearson  and  Mr Coleman,  did he consider at any stage that he had a duty to give evidence in regard to this matter to the Royal Commission of Inquiry. 
14) If not, what were his reasons for not wishing to give evidence to the Royal Commission of Inquiry. 
15) Is it a fact that he was the only person present at the meeting in his room on 17 January 1978 who was not called to give evidence before the Royal Commission. 

 -Mr Speaker has received letters from the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Ewen Cameron)  and the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107,  Mr Speaker  has selected one matter; that is, that proposed by the honourable member for Shortland, namely: 
The Government's failure to introduce lower international airfares. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-I refer to the reasons for disagreement which the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has announced to the House and ask whether he could expand a little on his statement that the Joint Committee of Public Accounts is now accepted as having the right to demand this information. As I understand it, there was a divergence of opinion as to whether the Committee did in fact have that right. Honourable members on this side would be pleased to have the Minister's comments on that aspect. 
-The Commonwealth Public Service peak union organisations are very concerned with the particular aspect about which the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  spoke. Very strong representations have been made to the Opposition in regard to this matter, mainly on the point that the rights of the officers are not being protected. As the honourable member for Grayndler pointed out, it could be inefficiency at top level which has caused the adverse comments which are made by the Auditor-General following his efficiency audit. The peak union organisations feel that it is only just that before an officer is blamed for what may appear to be an inefficiency he should have the opportunity to put before the permanent head his view as to what may have activated the inefficiency upon which the Auditor-General is reporting. In the 34 years which I spent in the Commonwealth Public Service I saw cases where an officer could have been blamed as a cover-up by his immediate superior, who was not necessarily the permanent head. 
If the Auditor-General does comment adversely to, say, the permanent head of department A and that permanent head passes the comment down to the head of the section concerned, the section head, who may be the one really responsible, may duck-shove the blame on to someone in the lower echelons, and it is that person who eventually gets a kick in the tail. That is why the peak unions are concerned that matters of this nature be reported back to the officers directly involved before a report is made by the permanent head of department A to the Auditor-General, who would then prepare his efficiency report. We are convinced that there is a very strong case for this and that there should be a far greater degree of co-operation, particularly in relation to efficiency audits. Efficiency audits have not yet started officially; no legislation has been passed to allow them to start officially. 
I urge the Minister to pass on to the appropriate permanent heads the feelings of the peak organisations, because it is a matter which could cause unnecessary friction at departmental level. In the interests of the good working relationship which we hope exists between governments from both sides and their very dedicated public servants, we want to avoid at all costs any friction which may arise from an adverse report by the Auditor-General. 
-The Opposition has looked at this matter very closely. In some ways we quarrel with parts of the proposals and in others we do not. I shall give a brief run down as to what caused the real interest in what is commonly known as the surcharge provisions. It has been set out in the explanations to the original Audit Amendment Bill which were circulated in the Chamber. I quote from the explanations. I think it should be put into the record. The explanations state: 
Section 42 (2)- 
Of the Audit Act-  requires the Auditor-General to surcharge the person responsible for the loss of public moneys or stores or damage to stores caused by the fraud, mistake, default, neglect or error of that person, or for other reasons set out in the Section to be repealed. The Auditor-General 's Office has found that, because of difficulties associated with establishing default or neglect it has been almost impossible to invoke the surcharge provisions. 
I do not think I am telling any tales out of school when I say that members of the Public Accounts Committee when they found out that it was originally intended to delete the surcharge provisions held up their hands in great horror. The surcharge provisions are one of the only methods left for some penalty to be imposed on careless public servants who have a direct responsibility for the proper management of money or stores or whatever. The surcharge provisions were the only measure by which some retribution- if you like to call it that- or justice could be meted out. But when we questioned the application of the surcharge provisions, as to whether they had ever been applied, we saw that the explanations to the original Bill state: 
Recent legal advice indicated that the existence of the surcharge provisions precludes the Government in certain situations from availing itself of common law remedies. 
This was just the mere existence of them, not the application of them. In the explanations to the original Bill it is also stated: 
The surcharge provisions place a responsibility on the Auditor-General akin to that of a judge without providing proper means for the person surcharged to give evidence in his defence. 
Certain actions took their course and the surcharge provisions were reintroduced in amendments to the Bill in a certain fashion. 
A large number of members of the legislation committee felt that there was still some deficiency in defining a 'grossly negligent manner' which was the wording in the amendments which were put up by the Government. This can be looked at from two points of view. I do not feel that a member of the Commonwealth Public Service should be penalised on every occasion he makes a mistake because, as Shakespeare once said, there is no person who works who does not make a mistake. We have to reach the stage of finding out what is a 'grossly negligent mistake'. 
I think the Government has come up with a definition which the Opposition accepts. I think I can state at this stage that the Opposition accepts that definition. It reserves its position on the matter to see how it is applied in the future by the permanent head of various departments. It is another case about which the peak public service unions would be very concerned if there were any thought that a type of rough justice were handed out. This would only cause unnecessary friction within a department. I commend to the Minister that, in the early stages of the application of these provisions, a certain amount of discretion be used so that a type of rough justice is not handed out and so that unnecessary friction can be minimised. Generally speaking, the Opposition at this stage agrees with the definition of a 'grossly negligent manner' which has now been inserted in the Bill by the Government. The Opposition reserves its future position in order to find out how it actually works in practice. 
-I think the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  and the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  have forgotten that the 
Commonwealth Public Service Act contains many penal provisions which permit the permanent head of a department to take action against an officer who is inefficient; which allow the Public Service Board, on the recommendation of the permanent head, to retire an officer who is shown to be grossly inefficient or cannot do the job for which he was appointed. The Commonwealth public servant is not in a privileged position, as has been made out by the right honourable member for Lowe and the honourable member for Macarthur. There are many people in other parts of the community who do enjoy a privileged position- and who are dealing not with public service money but with the people's money. 
They are dealing in most cases with little people's money- as we have seen in some of the crashes recently of various companies whose names I will not mention. I repeat, there are already adequate provisions in the Commonwealth Public Service Act to allow action to be taken against officers who do not do their job efficiently. One big penalty is that they stay put in their job and are not promoted. The right honourable member for Lowe and the honourable member for Macarthur may not be aware of it, but in the Third Division of the Commonwealth Public Service all promotion is on efficiency, not seniority. That, in itself, offers a sufficient inducement to officers to perform to the best of their ability. If they show their proficiency they are promoted. You could not have a greater incentive for people to perform efficiently than for the carrot, if I may call it that, of future progression, to be held before them. In addition, as I remind the right honourable member for Lowe and the honourable member for Macarthur, there are other penal provisions in the Act whereby an officer may be charged and fined for a misdemeanour, though not one in the category to which we are referring here. 
The Opposition does not quarrel with this proposition of the Government. We believe that it will prevent capricious actions by a permanent head, in whose realm the power now resides to impose a penalty. It takes that power out of the hands of the Auditor-General and puts it in the hands of the permanent head of the department. By defining 'grossly negligent manner' the capricious element is removed. It will make for good staff morale within the department, so that an officer may go about his job knowing that a permanent head who might have a snout on him will not be in a position to deal with him capriciously and perhaps fine him an inordinate amount of money, which could put him into bankruptcy and ruin his whole family. 
I wish to raise a matter in the House tonight and I have to inform the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  of the matter so he can listen in his room and take appropriate action. The Minister has now arrived and I thank him for attending. I wish to read into  Hansard  a letter from a constituent of mine who lives at Revesby. It reads: 
Further to our conversation of 14 September regarding my parents, Sarokhan Malla my father and Halima my mother coming to Australia to take up residence. When we originally made application for them to come from Lebanon the War had just begun. The approval had been given for my parents- 
I might add that they are both aged- but not for my two sisters, Kadya Malla who is a Dental Student 2 1 years and Maria Malla who is 1 9 years and a school student. The Immigration Department asked us to find Kadya a position to come to, but unfortunately we have been unsuccessful in obtaining a job for her and the situation has become quite impossible for my family in Lebanon. Their home has been bombed and they now live in the rubble of the house and there is no school for Maria. I therefore would like them to join my husband and family here in Australia and live with us at Revesby, until my brother Josef who made the original application can find a home for them. 
Please consider their application again, as I am terribly worried for their safety and my parents cannot leave two young girls in a war on their own. 
On 3 October 1 978 1 wrote a letter to the Minister in the following terms making reference to the representations of  Mr Malla  and quoting the particular reference numbers which I have given to the Minister's secretary: 
In a letter dated 6 September, 197S to the Regional Director, Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, Sydney,  Mr Malla  sought a review of both decisions. 
They are the decisions not to allow these two young people to come to Australia with their aged parents. The letter continues: 
I am informed that approval was given for the migration of the mother and father of the two girls, but naturally they are unwilling to do this and leave their two children in Lebanon. 
In view of the family re-union policy of the Government, and as a matter of humanity, it is requested that consideration be given to allowing the two (2) girls to come to Australia with their parents. 
I attached a copy of that letter and said that a review of the previous unsuccessful application would be appreciated. I did get an early acknowledgment from the Minister dated 12 October saying he would be calling for a report as soon as possible and would contact me again. On 31 October 1978 I had a phone call from an officer of the Parliamentary Liaison Office of the Department of Ethnic Affairs Branch of the Department in Sydney saying he was unaware at that stage that I had written to the Minister but that on the facts available to him and without a work guarantee he would not be recommending admission of the two children to Australia and he would be reporting this to the central office in view of my representations to the Minister. 
I am asking the Minister to do something as an act of Christian charity. These poor people are Moslems. They are living in the rubble of other people's homes. They are living in very straitened circumstances. The war in Lebanon is still going on and looks like going on for a considerable length of time. I have been assured by  Mr Josef  Malla who is one of my constituents, that he has already given guarantees saying that the children will be no charge on the Commonwealth if they are allowed to come here with their aged parents. He is prepared to keep to that guarantee. I ask the Minister as an act of Christian charity and for humanitarian reasons please to give further consideration to this matter because it is amost five months since my first letter and the war is still going on and these people are still suffering grave disadvantages. 
-Does the Minister for Defence accept the Westminster doctrine of ministerial accountability to the Parliament? Does the Minister still stand by his statement during last weekend in regard to ministerial resignations? 
-Block tax avoidance schemes are involved in this particular Income Tax Assessment Bill, the purpose of which is to block tax avoidance schemes such as prepayment schemes, trust incomes derived outside of Australia and trust stripping. The background of this Bill is that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  announced in a Press statement on  19  April  1978  that the first category of schemes involving prepayments would be legislated against, effective from 20 April of that year. These schemes involved the taxpayer obtaining a tax deduction for prepayments of interest on a loan which is artificial in that it is then effectively cancelled by the taxpayer buying back the rights in it. Clause 6 of the Bill inserts a new section in the Act, section  82KJ  so as to disallow any deductions for outgoings incurred as a result of a tax avoidance agreement where the outgoing exceeds the amount that might reasonably be expected to have been incurred at the time in respect of the related benefits, for example, due to prepayment, and when property is acquired by the taxpayer or an associate and the consideration payable for the acquisition of the property is less than what might have been reasonably incurred if the outgoing had no* been incurred. 
Clause 6 of this Bill also inserts new section 82KK. Sub-section 1 specifies certain types of losses or outgoings to which the section applies under arrangements between associated parties for the purposes of securing that one party will obtain a deduction while the other will not bear tax on a matching amount in the same year of income. Sub-sections 2 and 3 will deny a deduction for such outgoings where they were incurred as part of an arrangement for deferring tax on the amount receivable by the associate. 
The second broad category which was covered by a Press statement of 8 June 1978, relates to avoidance of tax on income derived outside Australia through a trust or partnership. Clause 1 1 inserts new sub-section 95 ( 1 ) whereby the net income of a trust estate will be calculated broadly as if the trustee was a resident taxpayer. The effect of this will be to extend its assessable income to include income from outside Australia. There are other clauses, but a particular clause, clause 14 in the Bill, which inserts new subsections 99 (2) and (3) to similarly extend tax to the ex-Australia component of accumulating income in resident trust estates, in respect of which no beneficiary is presently entitled. New subsections 99 (4) and (5) cover non-resident trust estates and will require the taxation only of Australian source income. I would point out that clause 15 makes similar amendments to section 99A which imposes a special tax rate which is 61.5 per cent for 1978-79 on trusts that are involved in tax avoidance arrangements. 
A further category involving trust stripping was covered by the Treasurer's statement of 11 June 1978. Here, the trustee avoids tax by directing income to the trust beneficiary who is presently entitled to a share of the income and not under any legal disability, and where the beneficiary also is tax exempt for some reason, and there is a reimbursement agreement under which the beneficiary redirects the benefit of the trust income to the trustee. Clause 18 inserts new sub-section 100A (1) which provides that, in certain cases involving tax avoidance arrangements which I have referred to, the beneficiary will be regarded as not being presently entitled to the income so that it will be taxed in the hands of the trustee under section 99A instead of as at present section 97. This amendment is to operate from 11 June 1978. Basically, what I have said is the purpose of this Bill. 
I have made statements in this House previously and I will make them again. The statements I have made were very pertinent to the attitude of the present Government towards tax avoidance schemes. I have previously spoken on this matter. I will repeat what I have said so that everybody will know and will have it on the record once again. On 5 May 1978, 1 said: 
On previous occasions I have used harsh words about tax avoiders and have said that they are bludging on the rest of the community. Indeed, that is what they are doing. The tax avoider is completely lacking in any morality because the additional tax burden is invariably thrust upon some other person who is financially less capable of carrying that burden. Unfortunately the question of financial morality never seems to receive due consideration by the courts which seem to be concerned only with a legalistic approach. The courts seek to put a blessing on tax avoidance as distinct from tax evasion. The dictum of Lord Tomlin is often quoted in support of that distinction. In the case  Inland Revenue Commissioner  v.  Duke of Westminster, . . .  which is a United Kingdom case: 
Lord Tomlin said: 
Every man is entitled if he car. to order his affairs so that the tax attaching under the appropriate Acts is less than it otherwise would be. If he succeeds in ordering them so as to secure this result then however unappreciative his fellow taxpayers may be of his ingenuity, he cannot be compelled to pay the increased tax. 
To my mind that is putting a blessing on tax avoidance. It certainly does not class tax avoidance in the eyes of the learned justice as something that should be frowned upon, nor does it suggest that the person who does avoid tax should be frowned upon for making someone else carry his burden. The learned justice called it an ingenious trick, and said, however unappreciative his fellow taxpayers may be of his ingenuity'. In other words, he is saying that it is an ingenious trick and he sort of compliments him for it. 
I say advisedly that while ever we have this attitude in the judiciary it does not lead to a serious example of honesty because it is certainly not an honest practice to expect other people to force someone else to pay their share of the tax burden. 
Perhaps the tax avoider cannot be compelled to pay increased tax, but surely there must be some question of morality in this whole issue. To my mind there is no difference between tax avoidance schemes and tax evasion schemes, other than legalistic difference. They are both morally wrong and destroy any equity in the payment of taxation. I used a simple example when I made reference to tax avoidance in this House on 5 May 1978. 1 think it applies equally today. To my mind it is the same as a homicidal maniac saying: 'I did not murder that man, I only put him out of his misery', and then seeking to justify his murderous action in that way. 
I put the same distinction between the act of a homicidal maniac and the act of a tax evader or tax avoider, whatever we like to call him. I wonder just how sincere the Government is in its statements regarding its attempts to close off the various tax avoidance schemes which are presently in existence. They will undoubtedly be in existence in the future. Of course, the main supporters of the Government are those people who have a vested interest in tax avoidance schemes or in tax evasion. They are the only ones with sufficiently high earnings to be able to engage skilled lawyers and skilled accountants to help them in their nefarious schemes. Honourable members will notice that these tax avoidance schemes are not practised by the ordinary working man- the man on wages. He does not have the opportunity. He might try to chisel a little on some concessional deductions, but that is only peanuts in the general scheme of things. The ones who are robbing this country right and left are those whom I call the big people of the country. 
When the honourable member for St George mentions cash for bricklayers it reminds me of a story which was told in this House today by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi).  It is a very well known maxim and it has application even today: In this world there are very few sheriffs of Nottingham and there are very many Robin Hoods. Experience of past events has shown that the sheriffs of Nottingham were knighted and that the Robin Hoods were hanged. The same applies today. The crooks of this world get knighted and the goodies, the Robin Hoods, unfortunately are caught in the net of the Taxation Commissioner at the behest of this Government. The honourable member for St George mentioned bricklayers avoiding tax. The amount of tax they avoid is peanuts compared to the amount of tax which is avoided by large companies. 
-I am glad that the honourable member for Sydney has reminded me that the lawyers, the professional men, the doctors and certain taxation avoidance accountants are the ones who are getting away with millions of dollars. It is those people whom the Government should be setting out to catch. I compliment the Treasurer on the actions which he has taken. I must admit that I have been criticised in some of my own Australian Labor Party branches for complimenting him on the actions which he has taken. I have been criticised on the basis that there is no such thing as a good Liberal. But there are some good Liberals. I am not saying that the Treasurer is in that class. But there are some good Liberals, the same as there are good Christians and bad Christians. 
In recent times the Treasurer made a statement that he was seeking to flush out the tax avoiders. But I think, if I heard accurately what was said in the House today, it was said that a paper fell off the back of a truck. Many trucks are roaming round Canberra these days with paper falling off them. The paper which fell off the truck contained some fairly confidential information consisting of recommendations from either the Treasury or the Taxation Office- I know not which- to the Government on which tax avoidance schemes and loopholes should be closed off. I think the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  mentioned this in his speech and the honourable member for Chiefly  (Mr Armitage)  followed it up in his speech. The point which was made previously on this issue is equally valid now. Certain recommendations which are made to this Government by the skilled experts in the Taxation Office and the taxation section of the Treasury are not implemented. 
There are reasons for the non-implementation of certain of those recommendations. There are a few guilty consciences not only amongst members of the present Liberal-National Country Party Government but also amongst a few members of the judiciary. I shall not name those with the guilty consciences. I would not reflect on the judiciary in any shape or form because I think members of the judiciary are all honest men. It could be said that certain people, honest men, do take advantage of tax avoidance schemes through family trusts and so on. I would not denigrate the actions which they take. Presumably they are honest men, otherwise they would not be appointed to the judiciary. Be that as it may, it is a fact that people in high places, even within this Parliament, have practiced tax avoidance schemes. 
As the honourable member for Lalor has said, there are people even in this Parliament who practise tax avoidance schemes. 
The honourable member was amazed. To my mind, these schemes are tax evasion measures. I will not name the honourable members in this Parliament who have practised these schemes. The honourable member for Chifley has already dropped the bucket, if I may use that term. The honourable member is often dropping the bucket and there is usually a lot of water in the bucket. But the water seems to drip off the shoulders of the persons to whom he is referring. 
I often wonder why the hands of the Treasurer and the Cabinet apparently are tied and why they are not able to bring forward details of these further tax avoidance schemes which should be stopped but which are not being stopped. Certainly the present Treasurer is making his best endeavours to do so, but he seems to have some restraining influences on him. I do not know whether he is restrained by a tall fellow; he is only a little fellow himself. Maybe he is restrained by a big fellow about six foot two, but I do not know. I admire his integrity. I would not denigrate the Treasurer's integrity in any shape or form because he is a good Christian man and I admire him. I quote again from the Treasurer's second reading speech on the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 [No. 2]. He stated: 
As I said in my Budget Speech 'the time is long passed when governments or the community should tolerate the blatant, artificial and contrived means whereby certain sections of the community seek to pay little or no tax to the detriment of the general body of the taxpayers and the equity of the tax system'. The pressure against tax avoidance will be resolutely maintained this financial year. 
In some part the Treasurer was right. He stated further 
As new forms of tax avoidance are identified, announcements indicating the appropriate legislation to be introduced will be made and that legislation will be effective from the date of such announcements. 
However, there is much more to be done in this field of tax avoidance. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a question and answer which appeared in the Senate  Hansard  of 21 February 1979. The question was asked by  Senator Evans  of  Senator Carrick,  the Minister representing the Treasurer. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Australian Taxation Office: Investigating Officers (Question No. 1119) 

 Senator Evans asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 24 November 1 978: 
1 ) Will the Treasurer provide a table showing, for each financial year from 1973-74 to 1977-78 and from 1 July to 23 November 1978, the average annual employment in the Australian Taxation Office of officers whose main function is to investigate taxation returns. 
Will he, in each case, show, a nearly as can be estimated, the number of officers investigating: (a) returns by pay-as-you-earn taxpayers; (b) returns by companies; (c) returns by business and professional persons, including primary producers; (d) returns involving investment and property income; and (e) returns of trust estates and partnerships. 

 Senator Carrick; The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The following table shows the average number of officers engaged during each year on investigation activities: 

<graphic href="113131197903010_62_0.jpg"></graphic>

The number of officers engaged in investigating different categories of income tax returns is not available. It is estimated that the time spent by Taxation Office staff in relevant years on investigation activities was devoted to companies and other taxpayers in the following proportions: 

<graphic href="113131197903010_62_1.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. I refer to the table contained in the question.  Senator Evans  asked the Minister representing the Treasurer to provide a table showing for each financial year from 1973-74 to 1977-78 and to the end of Nevember 1978, the average annual employment in the Australian Taxation Office of officers whose main function was to investigate taxation returns.  Senator Evans  asked that the Department provide information as to the number of officers investigating taxation returns on pay-as-you-earn taxpayers and returns by companies, business and professional persons including primary producers. There are still vast avenues for alleged Pitt Street farmers to evade taxation and probably there always will be. 

 Senator Evans asked for details of returns, of the time spent by investigators on returns involving investment and property income returns and returns from trust estates and partnerships. Unfortunately for the senator the departmental statistics were not sufficient to enable an answer to all those questions, but a few pertinent points stand out. I shall put them on the record. In 1973-74- our year in government- there were only 545 taxation investigators in the income tax field. In 1974-75 our Government increased the number to 599- certainly not enough. In 1975-76 after much prodding the present Government increased the number to 679. In 1976-77 the number decreased by one. Somebody must have died or got sick of the place and left. In 1977-78 the number was reduced by one. Somebody must have become further disenchanted and dropped out. The Government could not give us up-to-date figures from July 1978 to November 1978. 
But the break-up of the time which has been spent on company investigations is the eye opener. In the period 1974-75, during the Labor Party regime, 23.8 per cent of income tax investigators' time was spent on the investigation of companies and 76.2 per cent of their time was spent on the investigation of the little man. In 1975-76 the percentage of time spent on companies decreased to 23.2 per cent and the percentage of time spent on the little man increased to 76.8 per cent. In 1976-77 the percentage of time spent on companies was 23.2 per cent and the percentage spent on the little man was again 76.8 per cent. In addition to that the Government has appointed what it calls 'field audit officers'. These field audit officers do not touch companies. They concentrate on the little man. In other words, the taxation officers concerned- I do not know whether this is policy but I think it must be- have a clear direction from this Government to concentrate on the little man and let the big man go, whether it is referring to a company or what have you This Government must stand condemned for its attitudes on this matter. 
I address a question to the Minister for Transport and refer to my previous question to him during the last session of Parliament in regard to the possible use of Bankstown Airport by intrastate aircraft and other jet charter aircraft. Is the Minister aware that jet charter aircraft are consistently landing at Bankstown Airport as late as 1 a.m.? Will the Minister take action to prevent this unnecessary worry to the people in my electorate and adjoining electorates? Have there been any developments in the period since my last question to ensure that the people in my electorate of Banks and in the adjoining electorates are not worried by this unnecessary aircraft noise? 
-Having listened to the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  I intend to be very brief on this matter. I agree with the comments made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, and I listened with interest to the remarks made by the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock).  I am pleased to hear that the Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act is looking at these matters with objectivity. Much as one may try to maintain a position of neutrality, if I can call it that, anything connected with family law brings with it a very deep feeling of involvement with all parties, whether it be the petitioning husband or the respondent wife or vice versa. I am pleased to know that the Committee is considering the matter with such objectivity. I am expressing now a personal view on the basis of cases that have come into my office involving heart-rending stories of a spouse, either male or female, where problems have arisen over the custody of children. In my view, it is extremely difficult to get away from that feeling of involvement with both parties, particularly where the welfare of a child is concerned. 
It must be extremely difficult for the courts in their wisdom to decide matters of care and control of children, be it with the mother or the father. Quite obviously, the welfare of the child is the most important issue. It is also extremely difficult when there is discord between the parties and feelings get out of hand. I am pleased that in most of the decisions that have been brought to my attention the judges who have been appointed to this jurisdiction have shown a great degree of objectivity in deciding what is to be done for the welfare of the child. The counselling services that are so ably provided under the Family Law Act seem to have a great bearing on the decisions reached finally by the judges, and in my experience it is only rarely that there are appeals from a decision of a single judge to the Full Court. Those cases generally occur when either party, be it the husband or the wife, maintains an intransigent position. Where that situation arises, the damage done to the children cannot be calculated. In all the circumstances, the review of the existing provisions of the Family Law Act is being made at a time when that is most necessary. If there is any way in which the intransigence of either party can be minimised it should be considered. I hope that the Committee will be looking at that matter because the deleterious effects on children should be uppermost in the minds of both parents. I conclude on that note. I commend to the Committee a study of these matters. There is nothing more heartrending than to see a child's life destroyed by intransigent parents. 
-I wish to make a plea tonight on behalf of that section of the community which already has been bashed heavily enough by this Government. My plea to the Government is in respect of what is happening throughout the whole of Australia at the present time. The computer of the Department of Social Security currently is churning out millions of queries to age pensioners, invalid pensioners and others in regard to the rebate which to date has been granted to them in respect of their telephone rentals. In my view this Government has reached the lowest depths possible. It is bashing the underprivileged once again. 
I agree with the comment of the honourable member for Burke: The Government always does it. The pensioners of this country already have been bashed enough. Why is this Government still bashing them? Is it a government of bashers? I do not know whether this Government wants to be labelled the same as the bashers in Queensland. Surely to God this Government does not want that. I repeat, this Government can reach no lower depths than the depths it has reached already. The iniquitous decision of this Government to reduce from sixmonthly to once-yearly the indexation of pensions- age, invalid and others- was a low enough act. 
It was a shameful act. But what the Government is doing now is more shameful. Does the Government want to take away the only joy that age pensioners have at the moment? They do not have much joy at the present time as a result of the bashing they have received from this Government. The only joy they have is the means of communication with their families by telephone. In my electorate persons of up to 87 years of age are being denied the privilege, if it can be called that- I maintain it is not a privilege but a right which this Government should grant to them- of communicating with their families. These people are too old to get out. Does this Government want to take from them the only right or privilege that they have? What about the invalid pensioners- the paraplegics, those people immobilised at home? Does the Government want to take from the invalid pensioners the right to communicate with their families, with their children. 
-Of course it does. This Government has reached the lowest depth it has ever reached. I make a plea to this Government to reconsider its decision. It is obvious, even to a blind person, that the decision made by the Department of Social Security was approved by this Government. This Government is even bashing the blind people. Who will it bash next? If this Government is not thrown out of office before very long, what other iniquitous measures will it introduce? Further iniquitous legislation has been introduced into this Parliament. I refer to legislation concerning the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Obviously one of my colleagues will raise that issue tonight because the legislation is iniquitous. We will have in ASIO a body that is similar to the Central Intelligence Agency. 
In some respects it is worse than the CIA. It is more secretive even than the CIA. I thought the CIA had reached the lowest depths possible. However, in this country ASIO is reaching much lower depths. The next action that this Government is likely to take is to have ASIO tap the telephones of the pensioners to see what they are talking about with their children. There is nothing that this Government would not do. If the people of Australia do not throw it out very soon it will do even worse things. I finish on that note. 
-I rise to support the motion in regard to the termination of pregnancy. I will be brief in view of the large number of members of the House who have spoken already on this issue. I have listened with care and attention to all the honourable members who have spoken. Consequently, I am supporting the Lusher motion. The real issue is abortion. This Government should be providing the necessary funds to avoid the need for abortions. It is a hypocritical government. It even withdrew the maternity allowance of a mere $30. Like the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart),  I am convinced philosophically, medically and intellectually that human life is continuous from conception. In regard to the scientific evidence, it is not my intention to add to what was said by the honourable member for Grayndler in his speech in this House yesterday. I believe that he has dealt adequately with the scientific evidence that human life commences at conception. 
A large degree of emotionalism has been displayed by some honourable members during this debate. It is an emotive issue. The rights of women are involved. But are not the rights of a father also involved? There are also social implications. It is my intention to be logical rather than emotive. Until such time as scientists can establish that they can create human life with some substance other than the male sperm and the female ovum I will hold firmly to my belief that human life commences at conception. I believe that my reasoning is perfectly logical. 
I would like to cite a few facts in regard to my own family. We have six children. Our first child was born normally and without any complications. Our second child also had a normal birth, but my wife received a blood transfusion which introduced the RH factor into her bloodstream. At that time, in 1 945, nothing was known medically about the RH factor. In 1951 my wife gave birth to a son, our third child. He was severely jaundiced and was not given much chance of living. However, he did live and he is this day a practising barrister. Each of our other three children, including twin boys, was born severely jaundiced with a probability of spasticity. It was a severe mental strain on both my wife and me. Undoubtedly it was a far greater mental strain on my wife as she was carrying the child or children in her womb, but she bore the strain willingly and cheerfully. After our third child was born we were told by our gynaecologist of the high probability of spasticity in any future children. Is there a member of this House of Representatives who would suggest that those three children should have been aborted merely because there was a high probability of spasticity which may have caused us parents a problem? Those three children were not affected and are today normal children, thank God. They have all been to university or are currently attending university. Had these three sons of ours been aborted my family and Australia would have been the losers. 
I can also give examples of parents in my electorate who have mentally handicapped children. One family has three mentally handicapped children. The parents have faced trials and tribulations and borne great financial burdens, but they have accepted those burdens willingly. Would any members of this House suggest that these children should have been aborted? If they do, I suggest that they stand up and say so. I support the original motion. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Defence is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Bradfield. Is the Minister at present receiving sufficient funds from the Government to enable Australian defence forces to defend the thousands of miles of Australian coastline from the 'enemy'? Is the Minister satisfied that funds at present made available to him are being used to the best advantage to defend us from the 'enemy'? Which country does the Minister see as a threat to Australia and how real is that threat? What action is the Minister taking to defend our shores from the 'enemy'? 

 -Mr Speaker, I crave your indulgence.  Mr Speaker  you were present, as was I, at the dinner for Prince Charles today. You are aware that intoxicating liquor as well as non-intoxicating liquor, to wit, orange juice, was served. I drank only orange juice today. There was a clear implication by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  in reply to a question which I put to him, that I had over-indulged. I am therefore craving your indulgence,  Sir, so  that it can be put on the parliamentary record that I did not drink any intoxicating liquor as I am a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees and as I am in the Chair between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. today. I drank only orange juice. 

Order! The Minister, by speaking now, is closing the debate. Does the Minister wish to close the debate? 
-I call the honourable member for Hindmarsh. 
I wish to express my concern about the siting of the HIFAR atomic reactor at Lucas Heights. I am extremely concerned about the discharge into the Woronora River of effluent from that reactor. I am equally concerned about the possibility of seepage from the Lucas Heights establishment directly into the Georges River from creeks which run into the Georges River. I point out that the Georges River forms the southern boundary of my electorate of Banks. My residence is approximately 4 miles across country from the Lucas Heights establishment. Approximately 30,000 people in the electorate of Banks live within a 5-mile radius of the Lucas Heights reactor. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  has given assurances, as have previous Ministers responsible for minerals and energy, about the safety precautions which are taken in regard to this establishment; but what are those assurances worth, in view of the recent catastrophe in the United States of America? 
The present Minister for National Development said today in this Parliament that there should be no public concern about the safety of the Atomic Energy Commission's research reactor at Lucas Heights in Sydney. He also said that the safety of the Lucas Heights reactor had never been compromised. He went on to state: 
Safety receives the highest priority of all the matters that are under consideration by the authorities who run the reactor. ... no member of the public should be worried about the operations of the reactor. 
Let me assure the public and the Minister that people are worried. People in my electorate are worried and people in adjoining electorates are worried. Why should they not be worried? As I have mentioned previously, within a 5-mile radius of this atomic reactor in the electorate of Banks 30,000 people could be directly affected if we had a catastrophe similar to that which occurred in the United States. In response to a question which was asked in the House, the present Minister for National Development stated at approximately 5 p.m. today: 
. the Australian Atomic Energy Commission has been authorised to commence a design cost study for a new reactor. 
That is at Lucas Heights. He continued:  . . consideration of possible sites . . . will be included in the design cost study. 
I would like the Minister for National Development to give me certain assurances. The assurances I seek are these: In regard to the consideration of possible sites to be included in this design cost study, can the Minister assure me and this House that the replacement for the HIFAR reactor will not be sited at Lucas Heights? The dangers of siting it there are immense. 
At the time the reactor was built- some 20 years ago- the Lucas Heights area was almost a jungle. Today it is surrounded by Menai on the southern side of the Georges River and by Lugarno, Padstow Heights, Panania, East Hills and Revesby on the northern side, all of which are very populous areas. The people who live in my area are directly concerned, and they have reason for concern. I ask the Minister to come into this House tonight and to give honourable members an assurance that when the Government sites the new atomic reactor- it has announced that there will be a new one- it will site it in some area in the wastelands of Australia and not within the densely populated regions of the Sydney metropolitan area. Also, what will happen to the old reactor? How will it be disposed of? People are concerned, and rightly so. I ask the Minister to allay the concern, if he can. 
-I would like to join the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and all other speakers in paying a tribute to the late Frank Stewart. Frank Stewart was my friend. Not only that, he had a multitude of friends outside this Parliament and I think that that really is the test of how good a person is. Political life is a strange life. It is almost a passing phase, quite frankly, and it is often said that the worth of a member of this Parliament is not fully recognised until such time as he dies. I do not think that that can be said of Frank Stewart because the worth of Frank Stewart to the community was recognised long before he passed from this earth. Deep down Frank Stewart was a very human man. On the outside he had a veneer- I think one could call it that- of toughness. But when one got below the surface one found that Frank was very human. I think I can say quite honestly that he was very soft beneath that tough exterior. 
He fought for what some people might say were lost causes, mainly moral issues. But it did not stop the tenacity with which he fought for those causes. He earned the respect of all people whether or not they believed in the causes for which Frank fought. There was many a tussle in our party meetings as happens at all meetings of all parties. But I think it can be truly said that whilst many harsh words were sometimes spoken, people respected Frank for what he said. He was justifiably proud of his family. Possibly he did not always express outwardly the pride which I know he deeply felt for his family. Members of parliament on both sides might not always have agreed with some of his views or indeed with many of his views but they respected him for putting them forward. He earned the respect of everybody. 
As has been said by previous speakers, he was a man of absolute integrity. He was part of a family commonly known in the green belt around Belmore- as the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  has often said- as the Stewart clan. My brother married Frank's sister and I was classed as part of the Stewart dynasty, something of which I was proud and of which I still am proud. The Stewart family is a very close-knit family. It includes not only Maureen, the six children, each of the six brothers and sisters who are alive today but also Frank's lovely old mother, aged 84, still battling on and commonly known amongst the Stewart clan as Mama. One sees a wonderful respect displayed from the members of the Stewart family and the grandchildren not only to their own mothers but also to the mother of the Stewart clan. I pass on my sincere condolences to Maureen and her family and also to the other members of the Stewart family, including the six remaining brothers and sisters and Mama. 
Frank left his mark on Australia. The mark will still be there in generations to come. I feel honoured to have known him. To me he was more than a colleague; he was a friend. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 3 April 1979: 
1 ) Are sufficient funds being received by his Department to enable the Australian defence forces to defend the Australian coastline. 
What is the length of the Australian coastline. 
Are funds presently available to his Department being used to the best advantage for the defence of Australia. 
Can he say which country or countries are considered a threat to Australia. 
How real is the threat referred to in part (4). 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the rate of growth in the money supply was 14 per cent or thereabouts for the March quarter of this year? What steps does the Government intend to take to remove liquidity from the monetary system to bring money supply growth into line with the Government 's new target, which is reported to be in the range of 9 to 10 per cent? In particular, what measures will be taken by the Government to remove the potentially volatile impact of surplus liquidity which will arise from the maturity of the unusually high levels of treasury notes held by the community as well as the Wheat Board commercial bills? Finally, will the Treasurer make a statement on the terms of the May loan before the Victorian elections next Saturday? 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-I have received a letter from the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The spiralling and inequitable costs of health care for the average family, caused by the Government's erratic and illconsidered policies. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-I would suggest to the honourable member for Darling Downs that if he has been referring to Utah he might try to keep that part of the debate relevant. 
I would like to compliment the Minister on several initiatives he has undertaken in the area of miscellaneous health care, the special arrangements for people in hospitals, and the Royal Flying Doctor Service. Of course the Labor Party would not be interested in drugs being supplied to the Royal Flying Doctor Service. The Labor Party's responsibility to Australia begins and ends in the metropolitan areas. We are interested in the totality of Australia. The Labor Party did not mention the fact that part of the money being made available goes to people in the outback of Australia. 
I refer to supporting parents and their dependants. The Opposition, during its three-year period of government, did not seek to give pharmaceutical benefits to this most deserving sector of the community. In this situation I would hope that the approach of offering congratulations to the Minister for Health would act as a further incentive to him to help to overcome what is a very serious problem indeed. The gist of the legislation is that there has been an increase in costs. In an endeavour to cover those costs, the Minister has sought to increase the amount of patient contribution by a further 25c. It is quite a reasonable increase. Above all, it is appropriate to remind the House that the total amount to be spent on the pharmaceutical services and benefits section this financial year will be $345. lm, an increase of $29.5m over expenditure for the previous year. I think the Government deserves congratulations on this legislation. I support the Bill and totally reject the amendment. 
My question to the Treasurer refers to his announcement in the Budget Speech concerning the limitation on the value of motor cars for depreciation and leasing purposes. In view of the widespread use of leasing arrangements to generate tax-free capital gains in other areas such as expensive office furniture, paintings, exotic breeds of cattle, nut plantations, et cetera, will the Treasurer give consideration to extending his announced Budget measures to cover tax avoidance under all forms of leasing arrangements? 
-That is not a point of order; it is a point for debate. 
To support energy research and development, the Australian Government made available almost $ 15.5m for commitment in 1978-79, additional to that provided through normal funding for such activity to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and other bodies. In 1978-79 180 projects were approved. Support included $4.5m for production of synthetic fuels from coal, biomass, oil-shale and wastes, and $3.1m for studies aimed at improving the efficiency of coal mining, handling and transportation. In this year's Budget the Government has made provision for expenditure on energy research and development of $9m, and that compares with $4m in 1978-79. Expenditure from the Coal Research Trust Account in 1979-80 is estimated to be about $5m, making a total of $14m for overall expenditure. In addition, $6m is being provided for forward expenditure in the year following the one in front of us and $3m for the year after that. That makes $23m in all. That program is one which did not exist before. It is one that has been running for just over a year. It is a substantial one and a good one. 
I turn now to energy conservation. Realistic pricing of oil is basic to any approach to petroleum conservation. In the past petroleum products have been priced at levels which have encouraged wasteful and inefficient use of this premium transport fuel and discouraged its substitution by more plentiful alternatives. Pricing on its own, however, is not enough to bring about prompt changes in consumption habits or to develop improved social responsibility towards energy use in the community at large. But the Opposition spokesman on energy matters said a moment ago that the implementation of a pricing policy must be regulated, kept quiet, and done slowly. The substitution effects that we are now seeing would not have occurred but for our policy. It is sheer nonsense for the honourable member to come up with his sort of airy-fairy, breezy generalisation, which is unsubstantiated by facts. The fact is that because of that pricing policy, substitution is taking place, and taking place at a very impressive rate. The honourable member for Blaxland knows that in the very Sydney metropolitan area in which he lives the demand for natural gas has risen by 80 per cent this year. That is a saving of furnace oils and industrial diesel oils, and it constitutes a one per cent increase in the available oils that can be used for other purposes. That is the effect of energy conservation and interfuel substitution. I have described in brief what the Government's energy policies are. They are important policies, they are comprehensive policies, and they are working. If I had another 20 minutes or so I could demonstrate how they are working. I have given only some examples today. 
The hypocrisy of the Labor Opposition to come in here and talk about confusion and energy policies is the height of folly in the first case and absurd in the second case. If ever we had an illustration of confusion, it was exhibited by the Labor Party in Question Time today. Members of the Labor Party here in the Parliament say Don't mine uranium' and Labor Party supporters say 'Don't mine uranium', yet we have it very clearly on the record that the Australian Council of Trade Unions disagrees with that policy. Here we have a fundamental issue: Whether to mine uranium to meet the demands for energy around the world, to gain earnings for this country through exports. The Labor Party has no policy on this issue at all. Its policy is a shamble. 
Central to any policy is pricing; it is absolutely key. I have demonstrated during the course of this speech that there is utter confusion in the mind of the honourable member for Blaxland, but it goes much further than that. As I illustrated during the last sitting week at Question Time,  Mr Mulock,  the New South Wales Minister for Mineral Resources, sees proper pricing as leading to increased exploration. I remind the honourable member of what  Mr Mulock  said. He said: 
The higher the price of imported oil, the greater the incentive for exploration at home. 
What he means is that parity pricing means greater incentive for exploration at home. 

 Senator Walsh, who is one of the great critics of the policy, let the cat out of the bag in Tasmania, of all places, a couple of weeks ago.  Senator Walsh  sees proper pricing as leading to the substitution for oil of alternative fuels- one of the things that we have been arguing for over and over again. Recently  Senator Walsh  said, and I could quote him to some large degree except that time is against me: 
At present oil prices, an ethanol extender is close to breaking even . . . 
I just finish on this note: I would have thought that everyone's recollection of the problems with which the nation had to contend in 1972-75 would be still fresh, still raw and still painful. Quite frankly, a number of important development propects just did not get under way because of the way in which people adopted rather dogmatic attitudes. The programs were held up. That is bad for the country and politically it is bad too. Whom am I quoting? I am quoting the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  at the Adelaide conference. The nation would do well to remember his words. 
-The honourable member now has one minute and 35 seconds left. 
I am looking forward to the results of the South Australian election, which will be announced on Sunday. The Labor Party in South Australia also is campaigning on the 1979 Federal Budget. I know that what the present Ministry and this side of the House put to the people of Australia in August 1979 in a fair and responsible Budget will be reflected in the way people vote next Saturday. I am delighted to be part of a team that has given a responsible Budget to the 
Australian people in 1979. 1 look forward to the fulfilment of those policies. They have already started to have dramatic effect, as reflected in the increase in trading on all stock exchanges around Australia. 
-The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  said that this Budget has been widely acclaimed. I hate to disillusion him and I hate to disillusion the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  but this Budget is a catastrophe. It is a typical big business Budget and it stands condemned by all the thinking people of Australia. It is just another example of the broken promises of the Prime Minister  (Mr 
Malcolm Fraser). We all remember the slogan of the Prime Minister during the December 1975 election campaign. It went something like this: Turn on the lights'. It reminds me of some of the words of a song that I used to hear in my younger days, towards the end of the 1939-45 War- if my memory serves me right, it was sung by Dame Vera Lynn- 'the lights are going on again all over the world'. I would like to remind the members of the Government in particular that economically that is true today in almost every country except Australia. The reason the lights are not going on in Australia is that it is this Government which is attempting to run the country. If the lights have gone on at all, they are very dim. Australia has been brought to its knees by this Government. 
I have no quarrel with the Treasurer. He has done his best. 
I say this to his credit that in some ways he has been a good Treasurer. I must commend him on the extent to which he has developed schemes to prevent tax avoidance but I will go no further than that. Thai is his forte. It has been my forte since I came into this Parliament to try to prevent these devious schemes of tax avoidance. I will say this for this Treasurer: To his credit, he had brought in schemes to try to prevent tax avoidance. But the Treasurer has a hard job to try to sell this Budget. He and Government supporters are trying to sell this Budget on the basis of the alleged tax cuts flowing from the removal of the tax surcharge, although this will not have any effect until 1 December this year. But already, and the Budget Speech was made only a little over a fortnight ago, the Prime Minister has had to concede that in terms of disposable income, wage earners will be no better off at the end of this year. This Government has perpetrated and perpetuated the greatest tax hoax that this country has ever seen. 
It is worth noting what has happened to this tax surcharge since its introduction by this Government in 1978. It was introduced as a 1.5 per cent tax increase but became 2.5 per cent tax increase because a full year's revenue was collected in seven months. In May of this year, the Government announced that the surcharge would not be lifted on 30 June this year, as it had promised- once again, another broken promise- but would continue unchanged at the higher rate for the time being. In the Budget Speech the Treasurer announced that the surcharge would be removed from 1 December this year. The effect of a 2.57 per cent surcharge applying for five months is that it is a 1.07 per cent rate for the whole year. In the course of 12 months, the surcharge has gone from 1.5 per cent to 2.57 per cent, and now it is back to 1.07 per cent. 
The history of tax indexation is equally illuminating. The Prime Minister was so convinced of his capacity to keep the Government an honest tax collector that in 1976 he introduced full indexation at the stroke of a pen instead of phasing it in over three years as originally planned. Almost from the outset this Government has been retreating from tax indexation. So-called full indexation was discounted to allow for government-induced inflation, but half indexation eventually reduced it to an effective rate of about 30 per cent. Indexation has now been suspended indefinitely, with the vague statement that it may be introduced next year provided wage restraint is exercised and the economic climate is right. Once again the Government is seeking a way out to completely and absolutely renege on another of its promises. Instead of tax indexation being phased in over three years it has been phased out over three years. Government claims that income taxes will be reduced 

<graphic href="115131197909125_61_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197909125_61_6.jpg"></graphic>

I will give just a few illustrations from these tables. They show that in the 1978-79 tax year, based on a 9 per cent estimated income increase for that year, the tax payable on the income of a single taxpayer on this financial year are also wrong. Despite the proposed tax cuts which will apply from 1 December, total tax collections from wage and salary earners or the pay-as-you-earn taxpayers will increase by a massive 15 per cent this year compared with an increase of only 8 per cent last year. This is due in no small measure to the Government's failure to honour its promises to remove the surcharge and to implement full tax indexation as from 30 June. These broken commitments mean that this year the Government will collect an extra $ 1,552m in tax from individuals, the salary and wage earners- an increase of 15 per cent, mind you. In this case, all taxpayers will be paying substantially more tax during 1979-80. The low income earners especially face increases of up to 65 per cent in their tax. 
I would like to quote from some tax tables which show the total increase in tax payments at various income levels between 1978-79 and 1979-80. 1 have already shown these tables to a Minister and I seek leave to have them incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909125_61_5.jpg"></graphic>

$4,500 a year would have been $203.34. Based on an estimated increase due to inflation, in the forthcoming year the tax is increased to $334.66- an increase of 64.6 per cent, mark you. If we consider on a similar basis an income of $5,000 a year, the tax increase amounts to $144.05 or 38.9 per cent. Yet the higher up the income scale a person is the less is the percentage increase in his tax. On an income of $15,000 in 1978-79, with an estimated 9 per cent increase, the tax increase is only 10.7 per cent. That is for the single taxpayer. Compare that increase with the increase of 64.6 per cent in the tax payable by someone with an income of $4,500. This is just another example of this Government giving preference to the higher income earner. The taxpayer with a dependent wife and an income of 

<graphic href="115131197909125_61_5.jpg"></graphic>

$6,000 in 1978-79 paid $108.84 in tax. With a 9 per cent increase in income caused by inflation in the current financial year on his resulting income of $6540 the tax increase will be 245.9 per cent. Yet the taxation increase for a taxpayer with dependents who earned $20,000 in 1978-79 will be 14.8 per cent in this financial year. This is just another example of feathering the nests of those who have and taking from those who have not. 
This Budget, taken with the May preliminary Budget is the most extraordinary Budget introduced in this Parliament in the last 30 years. Anyone who thinks that this Budget is not highly contractionary should look again at the severity of the projected cut in the domestic deficit- from $2,258m to $875m. Assuming that the target will be achieved- it is a very large assumption based on the performance of this Government in the previous two years- I suggest that the total deficit as a percentage of gross domestic product will have been reduced from 3.4 per cent to an estimated 1.9 per cent. Compared with the deficits of other member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, this is not only a big cut- the result would represent a miniscule proportion of gross domestic product. 
I cannot let this occasion pass without highlighting a few facts about what is now known as the 'Fraser petrol tax'. This Government has doubled the price of petrol since it came to power in 1975. The Budget figures reveal the massive rip-off of the Australian motorist by this Fraser Government. Since 1976, the wholesale price of petrol has increased from 60c a gallon to more than $1.20 a gallon- or approximately $7.20 extra a tankfull for the average family car. The rise in petrol prices in Australia has nothing to do with the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries oil price increases as Australia imports only 30 per cent of its crude oil requirements and is 90 per cent self sufficient in petrol from its own oil fields. This Government has raised the price of petrol for no other reason than to raise additional revenue. The Fraser petrol tax is a selective and disguised tax which operates behind the cover of OPEC increases and seeks to lay the blame at OPEC's door. This Government is planning further rises for petrol later this year. Mark my words. See how right I am. During this current financial year the Government will collect a minimum of $2,023m from its crude oil levy alone. It will also get $956m from excise on refined petroleum products. In total, this Fraser petrol tax represents about 10 per cent of all taxation receipts. 
Yet the Government will hand back only a miserable amount through the lifting of the income tax surcharge. 
I want to make a few remarks in regard to this Budget about one of the groups in the community which will be affected most savagely by the cuts in living standards caused by measures announced in the Budget. None will be worse affected than those who most require government assistance, that is, the unemployed. This Government has clearly abandoned any pretence of concern for the unemployed and their families. No department has fared worse than the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs. No section of the community has fared worse than those people who are under the care of that Department. The pitiful schemes which the Government had in operation previously have been further emasculated. There has been a 69 per cent cut in the Special Youth Employment Training scheme, the only scheme which gives a direct subsidy for employing young people who have been out of work for four months. There has been a 44 per cent cut in real terms in the National Employment and Training scheme. That is the only scheme which has been attempting to assist disadvantaged sections of the work force to upgrade their work skills and their employment opportunities. There has been a 13 per cent cut in the Community Youth Support scheme. Many projects will be forced to close and staff will be dismissed. Enlightened countries in the Western industrialised world have set in train big job creation projects, training and retraining programs, as unemployment has risen. The ideological whims of the Prime Minister will ensure that Australia will remain out of step with the rest of the world. 
Since 1976 the extent and duration of unemployment have reached crisis levels, yet this Government continues to persecute the unemployed through restrictive work tests and a subsistence level unemployment benefit. Even now the unemployed have been denied access to training and retraining opportunities. Perhaps the most objectionable feature of the Budget is that, like the Government's three earlier efforts, it scarcely pays lip service to the problem of unemployment and is silent about the plight of the jobless. The Treasurer freely admitted that the outlook for unemployment remains grim- he mentioned this in his Budget Speech- yet offered nothing, even of a palliative nature, to ease the problem. The unavoidably contractionary effect of the Budget was not acknowledged. Spending cuts again were heavily concentrated in the most labour intensive area of government expenditure- capital works. Tax cuts were preferred to a job creation program. Indeed, spending on job retraining and special youth employment schemes has been slashed. 
If there is one area in which this Government can at least claim to be consistent in its policies, it is in its disregard for the welfare of those who are unable to obtain employment. It is consistent in its inconsistencies. Unemployed persons without dependants will still not receive automatic cost of living adjustments and their benefit payments will not rise at all this year. Their unemployment benefit will be held Stil at $5 1.45 a week. There are 261,510 persons receiving the unemployment benefit. They represent 77.7 per cent of unemployed beneficiaries. They will have no compensation for price rises which have taken place since May 1978. Many of these persons are old or single people put out of work by technological change and unable to find other jobs. The young unemployed under 18 years- that section of the community which has been completely ignored by this Government- were given no rise in their unemployment benefit payments at all. The amount has remained at $36 a week since April 1975 and has lost almost 60 per cent of its value in that time. 
This Government has no real concern for the average Australians-  Mr and Mrs Australia.  It has even less concern for the single income family unit. The family allowance scheme, introduced by this Government, was another hoax which it perpetrated. If the old child endowment scheme had been kept and tax deductions allowed for dependent children, the average Australian family would have been dollars a week better off than under the family allowance scheme. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  in his speech earlier tonight gave many examples of win the average Australian would have been far better off under the old scheme than under the present Government's scheme. Notwithstanding the hoax which the Government has perpetrated, the amounts payable under the family allowance scheme have remained unchanged despite the fall caused by inflation in the value of money. This Government cannot control inflation which on its own admission will go into double figures again in the coming year. 
An aspect of education spending announced in this Budget for which the Government deserves condemnation is the decision to introduce tuition fees for private students from other countries who are receiving tertiary education in Australia. It is an example of pointless penny pinching with no regard for the cost in terms of international relations or the obligations of a wealthy nation to assist its poorer neighbours. The imposition of these fees will promote a 'new isolationism' reminiscent of the days of the 'White Australia' policy. 
Let me sum up this Government's record- the Liberal-Country Party record. Medibank has been wrecked; petrol prices have doubled; taxes have increased sharply; unemployment is at record levels; interest rates are increasing again; and the cost of living is almost twice what the Prime Minister a year ago promised it would be. This is not what the Prime Minister promised the Australian people when he came to office. The record of this Government is the reason that public confidence in it has been wrecked and public trust in this Prime Minister has been destroyed. The Australian people are entitled to expect the Prime Minister of this country or any country to keep his word. They are entitled to expect they can believe what he says. The Prime Minister cannot blame other people for his mistakes. He cannot claim that his Government has not been given a fair go. He has been in office as Prime Minister for longer than any other Prime Minister in the last 34 years, with the exception of the late  Sir Robert  Menzies.  His  Government has served for longer than the Chifley Government, the Holt Government, the Gorton Government, the McMahon Government and the Whitlam Government. The Prime Minister promised full economic prosperity in three years. He has brought hardship, suffering, record unemployment and economic recession in four years. When the next election is held, this Government will be removed from office and deservedly so. 
-Notwithstanding the time taken to answer the last question I direct this question also to the Prime Minister. I refer to the Prime Minister's speech on the Budget on 11 September in which he said: 
. profitability is up, but it can be improved even more. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether his attention has been drawn to the statement in the national survey on unemployment issued by the Catholic Bishops of Australia which states:   . . unions cannot be required to accept wage restraints unless those restraints are applied for the benefit of the whole community . . . excessive company profits provide no justification for union restraint. 
Does the Prime Minister repudiate this statement by the Catholic Bishops of Australia? If so, does his Government intend to continue bashing the ordinary wage earner to accept lower and lower living standards as the price of unjust and incompetent economic management? 
-I point out that it is open for any member of the House to call a quorum and use the forms of the House as he deems fit. 
Secondly, I refer to real household disposable income, which is the money that Australian families have to spend. The Leader of the Opposition during Question Time lately has seemed bent on trying to say quite mendaciously that real household disposable income in Australia has been dropping. I point out that on page 70 of the Budget Papers it is clear that real household disposable income has been regularly rising in recent years, although, of course, it had an almost zero increase in the last year of the Whitlam Government. During the year just completed, 1978-79, it went up by 4.8 per cent. That part of the Budget Papers puts to rest the comments being made by the Leader of the Opposition in that context. 
Thirdly, I briefly mention the labour market. Of all the factors that have been presented in the Budget Papers it would appear that in the labour market there is some reason for optimism. I do not have time to go into the reasoning for that statement. But even given the higher productivity of labour that we presently have and the high net additions to the work force because of the large number of people coming out of school, the fact that we have less excess capacity in industry and may be running into ceilings with overtime, does mean that the number of new full-time jobs in the community will increase. 
What worries me most about the debate on the Budget so far is that the Opposition has shown that it is clearly anti-capitalist. The word 'capitalist' is from time to time seen by people as a dirty word. I have no understanding why that should be. I think it is quite obvious that capitalism has proved to be the most important economic gain, certainly in the last 1,000 years. Industrial capitalism is in fact the system which has created freedom more than any other social system that has ever been devised. It has created freedom because people are free to sell their labour, free to be mobile and, what is more, they are free with the incomes that capitalism produces to buy the items that they could not otherwise have afforded. To talk about egalitarianism as being the ultimate aim of our society, is just stupid. In the extreme, that sort of system will take away our freedom. That needs to be said. What we need in this country, what we are heading towards with this Government and what we are getting is compassionate capitalism. It is a system that can look after the disadvantaged people. It is a system that can produce the goods and produce the profits to afford those goods. 
Finally, I need to say that, in future, government intervention needs to be pointed in only two directions: First, to the help of the genuinely disadvantaged people and, secondly, to ensuring that capitalism has a go. That is what intervention is required for. The essential purpose of planning should not be to remedy any failures that capitalist growth has brought, but rather to direct and at the roots to protect the very possibility of such growth. I believe that that growth will be reinforced in this Budget. The runs are now on the board. People are realising- they certainly are in my electorate of Eden-Monaro- that the job is being done. The polls that we see at present show that it is being done. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-! doubt whether the honourable member for Lilley needs the support of the honourable member for Barton. He seems to be going quite well. 
What I am saying is this: As with bonds on issue and the public debt interest per capita, we cannot compartmentalise one year from the next. It ought to be remembered that a one per cent movement in the number of bonds on issue which mature within a year means a debt of $ 1,600m or $ 1,700m. That debt has to be met from one source or another. Whatever a deficit is designed to do, it ought not to be negotiated in an economy which will destroy confidence and cause people to want to cash in their paper. That was one of the great problems in 1973-74 and 1 974-75. The amount involved in redemptions of domestic borrowings in previous years was of the order of a couple of hundred million dollars. In 1973- 74 redemptions were over $800m. In 1974- 75 they were over $600m. That was one of the factors which caused the Government at that time to- increase its tax take so enormously. We are not able either to compartmentalise one part of the economy from another or to insulate one year from another. If people redeem their bonds the debt has to be met from one source or another. If interest rates are permitted to increase in a lax and unstable economy, that is precisely what will happen. 
I will summarise what the honourable member for Gellibrand said. He said that the interest debt per person had risen. I acknowledge that it has risen in real terms. It has done so now because of the debt which was negotiated, the paper which people bought, at extraordinarily high interest rates during 1974-75. That debt still has to be met. If interest rates are encouraged to drop and stabilise we will not have the enormous redemptions that we had during the two years to which I have referred. But the honourable member for Gellibrand ignores all this. 
May I return once again to the taxation issue, which is important. The past will have its way, and the past cannot be ignored. During the three years in which the party of the honourable member for Gellibrand was in government, Australia led the world in its rate of increase in taxation. Some of that taxation was raised for debt purposes; some of it was raised for quite worthy purposes; a lot of it was raised for quite unworthy and permissive purposes. Of the 24 market industrialised countries in the world, Australia traditionally had one of the lowest rates of increase in taxation. In 1972, for example, of the 24 industrialised countries in the world that are officially measured, Australia was twenty-first or twenty-second in its rate of increase in taxation. In the following year Australia went to the top, and in the next two years it was fifth and second respectively, in the rate of increase in taxation which the Australian Government obtained. In other words, for those three years Australia led the world in the rate of increase in tax take for which the Commonwealth Government was responsible. 
Despite those circumstances, the honourable member for Gellibrand accused us of being unconcerned about interest rates, about deficits, or about taxation. What he said is just not correct. Any policy which seeks to reduce the deficit and is a part of that reduction, and which seeks to reduce interest rates, has to be a long term policy and a long term proposition. It has to look at 1983 and 1984 as well as looking at next year. It is rather a long term policy. As a car manufacturer once put it, it is like making love to an elephant. If you are successful, there is no result for years. If you are not successful, you get trampled in the rush. Interest rate policy embraces that kind of proposition. 
I return to the Bill. Traditionally the Loan Bill is a mechanical Bill that has to do with the nature of funding of the Consolidated Revenue Fund that is carried on so that the normal services of government can be developed during a particular year. If the Loan Fund were not funded in this way early in the year, it is quite likely that the Revenue Fund would run into deficit. If the Revenue Fund were to run into deficit, those payments from it, whether to other governments, to persons on social security, or for administrative purposes, would all fall short. So the measure that the Government is undertaking now is an important one. It is a safety measure and it needs to be considered. The way in which the Government has looked at this measure is to try to secure, at the same time as the reduction in the deficit is to be funded, all the circumstances that will cause a reduction in interest rates. 
Let me end where I began- on interest rates. Unless interest rates are reduced, little flexibility will be allowed or possible in terms of overall fiscal policy. If interest rates were allowed to increase willy-nilly in any circumstances whatsoever, we would have the kind of fiscal policy we had under the previous Government- taxation increases of 32 per cent and more a year. If ever we are to have a capital works program, if ever we are to have expenditure for purposes which will increase economic growth by 4 per cent, 5 per cent or 6 per cent a year, we have to have low interest rates. If interest rates are high we will have insufficient flexibility in terms of overall economic management to be able to engineer those circumstances. For those reasons, this Bill deserves to be supported. Its very substance deserves to be supported. The nature of the deficit to which the Bill is directed needs to be supported because it deals not only with the economy this year but also with the burdens which will lie upon the Australian people in the mid-1980s. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-Is leave granted? 
-I have to report that Estimates Committee B has examined the proposed expenditures contained in Schedule 2 of Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1979-80 which were referred to it, and has agreed to a resolution and an expression of opinion in relation to certain of them. Copies of the Committee's report have been circulated. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  agreed to: 
That consideration of the report be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
I refer the Minister for Defence to his admission in this House on 20 September this year that the prototype naval patrol boat and possibly the first three naval patrol boats to be built in Australia would be approximately 20 tonnes overweight. What measures have been taken to reduce this overweight? Will it be necessary to strip the hulls of these boats? If so, what impact would this have on the electronic wiring of the boats? If it is not possible to correct the overweight, will it mean that up to four of the patrol boats will be of limited effectiveness in Australia's difficult reef and coastal waters? 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that there is in existence in the Department of Defence, at the Russell Hill headquarters in Canberra, a very complex electronic data processing system which services the defence forces throughout Australia and overseas? Is it a fact that the electronic data processing system, amongst other vital purposes, is also used to document the strategic planning to be implemented in the event of a threat situation arising  to Australia"?  If anything should happen to immobilise the costly equipment and this electronic data processing system, what effect would this have on the defence of Australia? In view of the importance of this matter will the Minister give consideration to locating the EDP system underground for better security, as is done in the Department of Foreign Affairs? 

Order! The discussion is now concluded. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr UREN (Reid)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Seeing that remark in the daily  Hansard,  I immediately corrected it. The daily  Hansard  is a rough proof whereas the weekly  Hansard  is the accepted record. The weekly  Hansard  of 8 March 1978 records: 
I have the confidential document here. It is a Cabinet submission of the present Government under the signature of Kevin Newman and dated 31 October 1977. To prove my bona fides, I do not mind including that confidential Cabinet submission in  Hansard. 
I state at the outset that the Opposition does not oppose the Public Accounts Committee Amendment Bill 1979. The Bill has the unanimous support of members of the Public Accounts Committee from both sides of Parliament. Some honourable members know and some may not know that the Joint Committee of Public Accounts is made up of members from both Houses of the Parliament. It is one of the oldest committees of the Parliament. The Joint Committee of Public Accountswhich consists of seven members of the House of Representatives and three members of the Senate- was established under the Public Accounts Committee Act 195 1. This is one of the first occasions on which there have been substantial amendments to the Act since the Committee was established. There had been a Public Accounts Committee since the early 1900s. As an economy measure during the Depression years the government of the day decided that it would abolish the Public Accounts Committee, and the Public Accounts Committee Act was repealed. 
The Committee was again established in 1 95 1 under the chairmanship of Professor Bland, who is the father of  Mr Harry  Bland, who was the permanent head of the Department of Defence, amongst other departments. I can well remember that when I was a young serving officer of the New South Wales Public Service, which I entered at the tender age of 15 years, it was necessary to pass what were called grade examinations. One of the subjects to be studied for the New South Wales Public Service grade examinations was a textbook on budget control written by Professor Bland. When he was elected to this Parliament he sought to introduce to its activities measures and controls which he felt should be introduced to control the expenditure of the Public Service. He felt that there should be a fairly extensive measure of control. It was mainly through his activities that the Public Accounts Committee, when it was re-established, assumed a type of aura, if I can use that expression. 
Frankly, it saddens me somewhat that amongst the members of the Parliament there is so little known about the activities of the Joint 
Committee of Public Accounts. It is one of the more worthwhile committees of the Parliament. I have been a member of that Committee since 1 March 1973- for 6'A years. I have been ViceChairman of it for four years. It does a tremendously good job. It is sad to think that on occasions, when reports of the Committee are brought down in this Parliament so little debate occurs. I see my colleague, the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly).  Many famous people have used public accounts committees, primarily in England, as vehicles for advancement within the parliamentary system. Unfortunately this does not of necessity follow in Australia. I well remember reading a book on the life of Harold Wilson- who subsequently became the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom- which was written not by him but by his private secretary. This book mentions that when Harold Wilson set out to become the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom he used both the United Kingdom Public Accounts Committee and the chairmanship of that Committee as vehicles. He was successful in achieving his ambition of becoming the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom through the medium of the Public Accounts Committee. 
I dare say that quite a few people in this Parliament who have served on the Joint Committee of Public Accounts- I could name them, but I shall not- have advanced to ministerial rank and to some of the high offices of the land by showing their wares on the Public Accounts Committee. I advance that information to any of our younger members of Parliament who have high ambitions. I can say this as an old stager who is leaving the Parliament at the end of this term. 
I thank the honourable member for Burke for that remark. If some of the younger members of the Parliament really want to learn how the economy of the country functions and want to learn about the expenditure of the Public Service- which in a lot of cases is misspent- they could do no great harm to their careers by serving on the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. It is one of the more worthwhile committees of the Parliament. I realise that I am deviating slightly from the Bill, but I am extolling the virtues of the Committee. 
The honourable member for Werriwa had an illustrious predecessor in this Parliament who became Prime Minister. The honourable member for Werriwa is now a member of the Committee and, who knows, he may even end up as a Prime Minister of this country because of the work he puts in on this Committee. This Committee is charged with examining the accounts of receipts and expenditure for the whole of the Commonwealth and reporting on such matters to this Parliament. This is the only method that I am aware of by which the Parliament is able to scrutinise the Executive and the activities of government, and to do it in a fashion which is worth while. This Bill proposes to extend the duties of the Committee in order to strengthen its role. As the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay)  said in his second reading speech, the amendments are part of a continuing process in broadening parliamentary scrutiny of public expenditure. They follow on from the establishment of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure which was formed in April 1976. 
There is a difference between the roles of the two committees. The Public Accounts Committee has been and still is entrusted with overseeing expenditure that has already taken place. The role of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure is different. The establishment of that Committee was an attempt to go forward to ascertain the facts on expenditure before it is actually made. At present the duties of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts are limited in the Committee's examination- this is prior to this amending Bill- of statutory authorities. Members of parliament may or may not be aware that statutory authorities have grown out of all proportion compared with Public Service departments. At present there are over 250 separate statutory Commonwealth authorities, compared with some 31 Federal Government departments. It is something that I think the Parliament has to make note of and take care about because I do not think that an overgrowth of statutory authorities is beneficial to the proper oversight of expenditure. This is one area in which the Public Accounts Committee has not been able to exercise the oversight that it is entitled to exercise, and should exercise, in order properly to carry out its functions. That is one of the reasons why these amendments are being made to the Public Accounts Committee Act. That is the purpose of the Bill. 
One of the main amendments is designed to grant to the Public Accounts Committee the right to examine the expenditure of not only government departments- the Public Accounts Committee already has that right- but also all government instrumentalities and authorities, commonly called statutory authorities. Up to the present the only way in which the affairs of these statutory authorities could be examined by the Joint Committee of Public Accounts was if the Auditor-General in his report to this Parliament made some mention of these authorities. At times huge amounts of expenditure were made by these statutory authorities, often without any proper parliamentary oversight. If the AuditorGeneral made some criticism of the spending activities of these statutory authorities it left the way open for the Joint Committee of Public Accounts to investigate their activities. That was the only way in which it could be done. It was a subterfuge which the Auditor-General would often use- I think I can say this advisedly- to assist us in our activities. There has been a fair amount of liaison between the Government and the Joint Committee of Public Accounts on this mater. The Government has decided, I think with some pressure from the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, to extend the activities of the Committee to allow the Committee of its own volition to investigate the affairs of any Commonwealth statutory authority. I think it is a good move. The Opposition agrees with the amendments which are being made. 
There is one matter about which I am concerned. I express only my own opinion on this matter. A tendency has developed within some of the committees of the Parliament, particularly some of the Senate committees, to try to gather unto themselves a little domain- if I may call it that- or area where they can conduct certain investigations in the economic field. There is a tendency to have a duplication of effort by some of these Senate committees in areas which normally and by statute are covered by the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. I remind members of this House that there is no necessity for such duplication because the Public Accounts Committee is a joint committee. The Senate is represented on the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, as is the House of Representatives. It is a tendency which I think is growing. Maybe it is a follow-on of Parkinson's law, of trying to build up activities for ourselves. Before we know where we are, we have a department. I think it is a tendency which should be frowned upon. I am raising the issue tonight on a personal basis, not on behalf of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. I am voicing my concern that there is a tendency for some- only some- committees of the Senate to seek to move into areas which, quite frankly, are not their domain. I am not saying that the Senate does not have the right to do it, but I am saying that its facilities and resources could be better used by moving into other areas rather than by trying to duplicate the efforts of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
I do not say this as a means of trying to preserve our own domain or something which we have. I think this tendency can only lead to confusion with the Commonwealth Public Service. The Commonwealth Public Service has a healthy respect for the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. In fact, I have seen very senior officers in the Service coming before our Committee with the Joe Blakes, as we say- the shakes. That is something which has surprised me. They have been called before the Joint Committee of Public Accounts to account for their stewardship. That is something that no department in the Commonwealth Public Service looks forward to. The Joint Committee of Public Accounts has a good name. It is respected and I suppose to a certain extent we could say it is somewhat feared. I counsel caution to some people in authority in the other place who are trying to gather unto themselves a new little domain at the expense of what I consider to be a proper and good organisation of the inquiry processes of both Houses of the Parliament. 
Just as a matter of interest, I would like to mention that even though this amending Bill, amongst other things, grants the right to the Committee to examine and investigate the activities of all statutory authorities- some 250 of them- the Committee has not been remiss in the past. I would like it to be included in the record that since 1966 the Public Accounts Committee has examined the activities of the National Capital Development Commission; the Norfolk Island Administration; the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission; the Commonwealth Fire Board; the Australian Egg Board; the War Service Homes Insurance Trust Accounts; the Australian Broadcasting Commission; the Commonwealth Advertising Bureau, as it was at one stage; the Australian Dairy Produce Board; the Canberra Community Hospital; the National Library of Australia; the Australian Broadcasting Control Board; the Australian Wool Board; the Australian Tourist Commission; even that holy of holies, the Public Service Board; the office of the Australian Development Assistance Agency; the Commonwealth Railways; the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal; the Australian Wheat Board; the Darwin Community College- may I say, as one who was in Darwin, that it was a real botch; and the Superannuation Fund. It is currently conducting an investigation into the affairs of the Canberra 
Commercial Development Authority. They are just a few of the statutory authorities which the Joint Committee of Public Accounts has investigated or is currently investigating. In addition to that, it has investigated on a regular basis most of the departments within the Commonwealth Public Service. There is hardly a government department which has not had its affairs investigated by the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
One old faithful which has received a lot of attention from the Joint Committee of Public Accounts is the Department of Defence. I am sorry that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  is not in the chamber, because I know that he is concerned and has been concerned at the number of occasions on which the Joint Committee of Public Accounts has found it necessary to investigate the affairs of the Department of Defence. I would like just to instance a couple of incidents that occurred in the investigations of the Department of Defence. During the time of the Vietnam war the Department of Defence, through the then Department of the Army, decided that for the better care of the troops in Vietnam, who were doing a good job, it needed such equipment as transportable refrigerators. So it placed an order. After a lot of work the experts in the Department of Defence and other authorities drew up the design plans for these transportable refrigerators, which were to be used primarily in Vietnam. 
Everything went well, except for the fact that they did not get off the production line until after the Vietnam war was over. They were designed so that they could be transported by the Royal Australian Air Force on its Caribou aircraft. When the officers concerned got to the stage of trying to fit one of these transportable refrigerators into a Caribou aircraft they found that it did not fit. They could not get into the aeroplane. There was no other way of transporting it. For many moons, those transportable refrigeratorswhich turned out not to be transportable because we could not get them in the aircraft- lay not collecting dust, but I think in the ordnance depot at Holsworthy Army camp. Millions of dollars were involved. It was not just chicken feed involved in this type of exercise. That was one matter which was originally brought up by the Auditor-General in his report and was subsequently investigated by the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
There is another matter which again happens to concern the Department of Defence, and the Army authorities. There were such things as demountable trailers. I think that these demountable trailers were to be used for carting stores and ammunition. There was a design study made for these trailers and they were manufactured by outside manufacturers to design specifications. The trailers were to be attached to the backs of trucks and were to be capable of being towed at a fair speed. Everything went along beautifully until such time as it was found that the trucks could not tow them and that they would detach from the trucks. 
I have instanced these two cases which were investigated by the Joint Committee of Public Accounts concerning the Department of Defence. Arising from the investigations and the severe criticism which the Joint Committee of Public Accounts made in its report to this Parliament, we hope that design mistakes of that type will not occur again, because in one case the amount involved was over $2m and in the other case it was well over Sim. Quite frankly, that was an absolute waste of public money. I instance those two cases to show some of the matters which the Joint Committee of Public Accounts does investigate. The  Chairman  of our Joint Committee of Public Accounts will be speaking after me. I am certain that he will have a lot more to add to what I have said. In the time remaining to me, I say, on behalf of the Opposition, that we agree with the amendments which the Government seeks to make to the Act. The Bill will lead to a better service from the Joint Committee of Public Accounts and that can be only of benefit to the Parliament and to the nation. 
-I meant to say: ' The ' 'noes "have it '. 
