
 -Mr Speaker, it may surprise you to know that in addition to supporting the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply I, unlike some people opposite, intend actually to speak to it. I offer you congratulations. I trunk I do so on behalf of everybody in Western Australia. You are the first Western Australian born  Speaker  of this House. You may not even be aware of that fact but the Library will verify it. The important thing is that Western Australians must stick together. I am not asking for any favours. Indeed, earlier in the day you had occasion to remonstrate with me very mildly for interjecting before I had made my first speech. I promise you it will never happen again. You and I tramped around Victoria Park, a leading shopping area in my electorate. This was before any of us knew the lofty and eminent office to which you would be appointed. I think it will be difficult for me to be on the same terms with you again. However, I hope to comport myself with suitable humility in this House. My colleague who sits beside me, the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter),  and I, unlike yourself,  Mr Speaker,  were not born in Western Australia. We went there to seek our fortune. I think we may have found at least some of it 
The electorate which I represent, as you well know, is located alongside a beautiful river. Unfortunately, I suppose, the electorate contains a large amount of undeveloped land which is not very pretty but which I hope to be able to encourage local authority, with suitable assistance, to develop. The electorate has a large factory area and, unfortunately, some unemployment at the moment. In spite of what the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said, most of it is due almost entirely to the policies of the previous Government.  Mr Speaker,  the people of Swan when I spoke to them during the long election campaign were much more concerned about the long term effects of faulty economic policies than they were about the immediate effects of unemployment. They could see that the situation that had been created was not just to do with world affairs but was almost deliberately created by economic stupidity, by going against all the known economic canons. That is perhaps somewhat abstruse for the people of Swan to put into economic terms but their instinct at least told them that the problems that we have will not be solved quickly. 
The electorate of Swan is what some people might describe as a working people 's electorate and the people of Swan have reposed their confidence in me because they know that the policies of this Government are the only policies which in the long term can rectify the situation. They know that it will not be sorted out quickly. That was the answer that I had from the people of Swan as I moved around the electorate. They decisively rejected the hand-out policies of the previous Government. It is easy for those on the Opposition benches to talk of the wonderful social changes that they claim they brought to this country, but the truth is that we have all been so heavily taxed- that includes the electors of Swan- for things that we really did not want and in fact did not need. I can say to you,  Mr Speaker,  in all sincerity that the people of Swan want the opportunities of employment and they want the opportunities to make their own security, but they do not want governments to make their security for them. 
The women of Swan particularly were severe on the policies of the previous Government. They could not see, for instance, why so much money had to be wasted on what some of them described to me as a circus- that dreadful event known as International Women's Year. I am not criticising any women, any women's organisations, the Women's Electoral Lobby or anybody else. I am reporting to you faithfully only what the people of Swan, particularly the women, had to say about this matter. They have not stopped talking about it yet. 
I think it is fair to say that I thank the voters of Swan for the confidence that they have reposed in me. I owe them a great deal. I owe a great deal also to loyal helpers. I do not think it would be inappropriate for me to mention to the House some of the people who have previously held this seat. I do not think there would be very many in this House now- there may be a few- who would remember the Honourable William Leonard Grayden. He came into this place in 1949 and resigned the seat in 1954. 1 do not think he would object to my conveying his regards to anyone who may still remember him. He was succeeded by  Mr Richard  Cleaver who held this seat from 1954 until 1969- quite a long period. That is a precedent that I hope to repeat and I have some confidence, now that the people of Swan have made a definite decision on such basically philosophical grounds, that they will stick with it. Even though the seat at the moment appears to be marginal-with respect to some of my colleagues it is not the most marginal seat in Australia but it is one of the marginal seats- I have every confidence. At this stage I think I can mention my immediate predecessor,  Mr Adrian  Bennett. I have every confidence that if I apply myself as diligently as he did and pay the same attention to the electors of Swan as he did- I pay him this tribute even though he is from the other side- I will probably be here for a long time. In any case that is my expectation even though it may not be the expectation of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  who I see seems to be amused by what I am saying. There will be a time when I might be able to give him some curry too. 
The next matter about which I wish to speak is something that I think you,  Mr Speaker,-  will understand. I am something of an old war-horse politically. I wish I were as youthful and as good looking as some of my colleagues who come into this Parliament with me. But as most honourable members know, I have been around for a fair time. In fact I think some of my journalistic friends most charitably describe me as having had a chequered career. I am an old war-horse and I tend always to move to the rumble of the guns. If the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  were here this evening he would say that the guns I am moving to are pretty muted popguns. 
But as things are I think it is incumbent on me, having sat here now for a couple of days listening to the vilest attacks I have ever heard on constitutional government, on the person of the Governor-General and on everything that we regard as important in this country, to say that I have not yet heard anything solid apart from the remarks of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who in answer to a question rebutted the attacks. I have no doubt that my colleagues are storing up much which will give the lie direct to some of the things that have been said in this place. 
With few exceptions- I think the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  is one- Opposition members have mounted a calculated and deliberate attack on constitutional authority. I sincerely hope that members and senators who have mounted attacks in this place and the other place are not in league or in concert with the people who organised that disgraceful demonstration a few days ago outside this House against the person of the Governor-General. I sincerely hope that no Opposition member would ever be involved with such a disgraceful charade. I saw the demonstration and heard some of the remarks that were uttered against the person of the Governor-General. I submit to you,  Mr Speaker,  that it was one of the most shameful things I have ever seen. Honourable members who have been here for a lot longer than I have probably seen a lot worse. Some of the publicity I have seen in the West about demonstrations that have been conducted outside this place has given me considerable fright. 
If I recollect correctly the only evidence so far adduced that there was a conspiracy was offered by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  What sort of evidence was this? The honourable member alluded to a publication which I think he called  Village Voice.  I am certain that this must be a most distinguished publication. I am certain it must be a real authority. But I have never heard of it. I have made diligent inquiries of other people in this House and not one of them has ever heard of this publication calling itself  Village Voice.  What is the meaning of this transparently dishonest fabrication which has been going on in both Houses of Parliament? To me it is the simple application of the technique known as the big lie. It is completely in the Soviet style. What the Opposition hopes to do, of course, is to divert attention from its many failures. It hopes that the constant repetition of these untruthful allegations in both Houses of this Parliament will create a story which then will be taken up by favourable academics, journalists and broadcasters and that the allegations will be repeated everywhere until this dreadful story, this dreadful fabrication of the last couple of days, almost becomes the official version. I think that members on this side of the House are well aware of this technique. We know what the Opposition is trying to do. 
We believe that the truth of the events of last year is already well known to the Australian public. I think the proof of that is in the election result. It has been well said before that you can fool some of the people all of the time but you cannot fool all of the people all of the time. This was the verdict of the Australian people. Honourable members opposite cannot put over a story like the one they have been telling. I do not believe that they will get away with it. I believe that before we have finished with them they will regret that they ever started this tack. 
It is faintly amusing to me, with my particular memories, to hear the death bed attachment of the Opposition to constitutional forms of Government. Have we not heard talk over recent years from certain people on the other side of the chamber of going into the streets? This has been common talk. I heard it for years myself in parliamentary broadcasts. I know where some of the corpses are buried on the other side. I recollect that in 1955 the interference of the then Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party in the  affairs of the Victorian branch of the Labor Party was responsible for tearing up the rule book and the constitution of the Australian Labor Party. When it did that perhaps it did not know that it would finish with the decimation that we see tonight on the Opposition benches. The destruction begun then is almost complete. It proceeded apace for years with just a short aberration in the extent of that destruction of only 3 years. I suggest to honourable members opposite that until they get rid of the endemic disease of procommunism of one kind or another which has been with them since 1955 they will never be trusted for any long terms of office by the Australian people. 
It is now my pleasure to support the GovernorGeneral's Speech, the fundamental point of which, as far as I am concerned, is that government governs best when it governs least. I could hot have been more delighted to see such a fundamental point in the Governor-General's Speech. It seems to me that for many years, even perhaps on this side of the House, government tends to interfere too much in the supply and demand cycle. I think this interference has been often alluded to by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and, from memory, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  I suppose that previous Liberal-National Country Party governments have not been immune from this failing from time to time. It seems to have been a trend in the 20th century to move away from the virtues of self-help, selfreliance and dependence on your own abilities. There seems to have been a greater and greater tendency for governments to interfere not only in people's personal lives but also in the whole of the economic structure. My own view is that this tendency is fundamentally bad. It leads to a situation which the people of the electorate of Swan understand and which they quite happily rejected. You sometimes need a difficult situation to bring you back to the fundamental principle of standing on your own 2 feet; that nobody can do it for you. 
I believe that the success of a number of members in this House is an example of how people prepared to take their courage in both hands, not to rely on handouts, but to rely on their own abilities and come forward can succeed. I think this is the fundamental implication of the Governor-General's Speech. It implies that we are all going to stand on our own 2 feet and we are all going to do a lot more for ourselves and, I hope, by doing that, a lot more for each other. I have had my difficulties from time to time and philosophical arguments, even with people on this side of the House, and I am glad to see that we are now following the doctrine of helping ourselves, believing that we govern best when we govern least. It is particularly important to me as a Western Australian to note the following passage from the Governor-General's Speech which I think is worth quoting: 
Historic reforms will be made to reverse the concentration of power in the Federal Government and increase the autonomy and responsibilities of Local and State Governments. 
I know that we have excellent representatives from Western Australia, who, in the past, have made this House aware of the particular difficulties that we have in the State of Western Australia, which is so far away from the seat of Federal Government. Sometimes people on this side of the continent do not understand the feeling that Western Australians have for wanting to run their own affairs. I think all honourable members must be aware that from time to time a feeling for what is known as secession breaks out in Western Australia. Do not misunderstand it and do not denigrate it too much. It is the desire of people who live a long way from the seat of government and who feel sometimes that federation has failed. It is their desire to want to run their own affairs. Please do understand it. Remember that Perth is the most isolated capital in the world. Remember, for instance, the size of the electorate of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter).  It is approximately onethird of the area of this country. He has tremendous difficulties which no doubt he will acquaint the House with when his turn comes to speak. The problems we have in Western Australia are problems that I think honourable members in this place must never forget. Sometimes we get the feeling that you do forget us. 
It is now important for me, I suppose, to draw attention to something else in the GovernorGeneral's Speech and that is the prime objective of the Government's national resources policy which to us is so important that I think it is worth quoting. It reads:  ... to return resource development to its proper role in the nation's economy and to restore overseas users' confidence in the Australian mining industry's long term reliability. 
In the last couple of years we have had a situation largely induced by people on the other side of the House. 
It is interesting to listen to the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  I am reliably informed that the honourable member for Newcastle for years- years before he became a Ministeroffered in this House all sorts of advice to the then Government about what it ought to do. Then when he finally got his chance, when he finally became a Minister, what did he do? 
Well, he did do something; he bought ships from overseas while three of Australia's six shipping yards were closed. He has almost ruined the domestic airlines. The other thing that the honourable member for Newcastle did when he was a Minister was to throw into complete chaos all the domestic airlines, including Trans-Australia Airlines, by means of his airline cost recovery program. How the former Minister can still offer advice to this Government, I do not know. However, he has got his own conscience to live with. 
I hope to wake up the honourable member before I am through. In supporting the Loans (Qantas Airways Ltd) BUI 1976 and the Loans (Australian National Airlines Commission) BUI 1976 1 must say that it is a pleasure to find that the Opposition feels much the same way as we do about the Bills. I think it has indicated that it does not really oppose the Bills. I am reminded of something else that the honourable member for Newcastle had to say the other day about these things. He accused us, I think, of not wanting to get on with the job. I suppose we could have got through the business of the House a little more quickly if honourable members opposite had not insisted on speaking. 
I will when my time has expired. The honourable member has made his speech. He should give me a chance. He has been here a lot longer than I have. There is no way in which the proposals contained in these Bills can be made to support the Opposition philosophy that public enterprise is better than private enterprise. We heard earlier the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who is sitting at the table. He could not forgo the opportunityquite understandably, I suppose- of putting in a word to support his philosophy. I noted at the same time, though, that he expressed support for private enterprise. He said that he supported Ansett Airlines of Australia and that he thought it was doing a good job, and that he also supports other private industry. I found that quite an interesting comment. However, I am quite sure that his socialist colleagues will be even more delighted than I am to hear these sentiments. I am told that in the last financial year Ansett 's profit was in excess of $4m. Yet the profit of TAA was only in excess of $lm. TAA has far more staff than has Ansett, but Ansett has a higher load factor on major routes than does TAA. So I think that gives some sort of an example of private enterprise versus the public sector. 
I could not help but be delighted with the wonderment of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  that machines which are heavier than air can rise in to the clouds and fly. I too have some wonderment. I think the honourable member for Macarthur had a wonderful example this afternoon from the honourable member for Adelaide whose mixed socialism idea is regularly floated in the air and just as monotonously falls to the ground at each election, and frequently in between. No matter what one thinks of public enterprise we do have the ongoing situation of maintaining Qantas and TAA. That is essentially the subject matter of these Bills. It does not matter whether some of us feel from time to time that we ought to sell our interests in Qantas and that we ought to sell TAA to private enterprise. We have the political problem. It is a financial problem and an economic problem. We have to five with it. Many people in my own electorate, which embraces the Perth International Airport, wish that they had never heard of TAA or Ansett or Qantas or any other overseas airlines because they have got to live with the noise, sometimes late into the night. 
In his second reading speech on the Loans (Qantas Airways Ltd) Bill the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  made the point that Qantas does need the money. He has established that Qantas is an ongoing affair. I think the difference between this Government and the previous Government is exhibited by the fact that the Treasurer is putting a limit on the amount of money which can be borrowed. I think that is an indication perhaps of greater responsibility on this side of the House. Secondly, the Treasurer has indicated that the airline will be required to meet all charges under the loan agreements and that there will be no net charge on the resources of the Commonwealth, which is really the only way in which government assistance ought to be given to public enterprises in this country. It is a pump priming operation. The interest rates provided for are reasonable. In fact, they are even more reasonable, I might say, than the rate at which I have to service the loan on my dwelling. The advance approval for the loans gives the Government the opportunity of ensuring sufficient flexibility in arranging for the borrowings to be undertaken at a time when market conditions are favourable while still ensuring that the scheduling of the loan may take place as near as practicable to the delivery date of the aircraft. Overall that saves enormous costs on the borrowings, and the costs are therefore minimised. 
Finally, the borrowings are subject to the approval of the Loan Council. Apparently that approval has been obtained already, because the approval is included in the Commonwealth loan program for 1975-76. It is interesting, I think, to make the constrast between this Government and the previous Government- although perhaps this is in another field altogether from what I have in mind- that we do seek the approval of the Loan Council for whatever borrowings we intend to make. 
Much the same situation applies to the Loans (Australian National Airlines Commission) Bill 1976. To show that we are aware that the ongoing situation regarding government airlines needs attention, we, as a free enterprise government, are prepared to help TAA even if its profits are less than those of Ansett and its staff is greater. Nevertheless, if I may again refer to the Treasurer's second reading speech, the excellent terms of the loan will enable the company to comfortably service the loan over the earning life of the aircraft. Again that is important. It is the same principle as is embodied in the Loans (Qantas Airways Ltd) Bill. Those basically are the points that any free enterprise government will require in making loans to public enterprises or government statutory bodies. 
I think enough has been said from this side of the chamber to indicate our total support for the situation in which we find ourselves- a situation of having to support government enterprises. There are honourable members on the other side of the chamber who insist all the time that the Government intends to close down everything that we have disagreed with in the past. Well, I think we are proving that we are not as ruthless as the Opposition has tried to show. We want to keep these enterprises going because they are fulfilling a function. It is our duty as an ongoing government to look after their needs. I support both these Bills. 
It is always a pleasure to follow the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  and I am certain that everybody in this House who listened to his speech was delighted to hear the common sense for which the honourable member is well known. This evening I want to draw the attention of the House to the Timor moratorium that is beginning to stalk the streets of this country. This stalking horse is from the same stable as the Vietnam moratorium which turned our streets into centres of violence and potential violence, where political power was exerted through sheer weight of an ostensible non-violence that was both aggressive and essentially corrupt. The Fretilin in East Timor have been effectively defeated for the time being. No Australian troops were involved. Therefore the new Timor moratorium will be denied the diet of fear, hatred and defeatism on which the Vietnam campaign flourished and it is unlikely to have the stamina or staying power of its Vietnam sire. However, it does represent another attempt on the part of communism in this country to take foreign policy decisions out of the hands of the properly elected Government and into the streets and the backrooms of the Left. 
The moratorium is a straight out attempt to turn Australia into a convenient base for the Fretilin, which the Italian Communist Party's official organ called a group of 'Marxist oriented guerillas', although in Australia there is a lot of naive pussyfooting and deliberate misrepresentation of this fact. Some Fretilin leaders have been touring Australia, doing the ritual stirring up on the Timor moratorium- a tactic which is always used by the communists and their friends, witting and unwitting. Three of these Fretilin are known to have been former left wing activists from Lisbon University and honourable members can be certain that they did not come here to tell us they have now all been converted to right wing conservatism and want to set up a Liberal Party in East Timor. 
A number of new organisations supporting the Fretilin have mushroomed and by their fruits and their companions shall you all know them. The Campaign for an Independent East Timor is operated by a Communist Party member and journalist from the communist  Tribune,  Dennis Freney. In the various States it works from the offices of a number of communist led unions. In Newcastle it works under  Mr Keith  Wilson, a member of the Communist Party and Secretary of the local Trades and Labor Council. In my own State of Western Australia the Friends of East Timor organisation operates from the office of the left wing Millers and Mill Employees Federation in the Trades Hall. In Brisbane CIET operates from the offices of the  President  of the Building Workers Industrial Union,  Mr Hugh  Hamilton, who is also State  President  of the Communist Party of Australia. In South Australia support is being organised by Ron Barclay, State Secretary of the notorious Seamen's Union of Australia, using the office of Action for World Development in Adelaide and this is significant for it points to a linking of a church organisation with the pro-communist Fretilin movement to which I will refer later. 
The story is the same in each State and city where the pro-Fretilin organisation has been set up. It makes no attempt to hide itself and is openly under the wing of the communists. The Vietnam moratorium was a giant confidence trick in which some honourable members opposite were involved. It manipulated people into supporting propositions which they were warned were wrong and which were proven to be tragically wrong. The people of South Vietnam have not been given any rights to self determination. They have no chance of democracy. They are not a free people determining their own destiny. They are being brutally forced into subjection by the communists. The firing squads and the reeducation brigades are doing their work in the way they have mercilessly done it in other countries that have been allowed to fall under the yoke of communism. 
The then Government of Australia- the Government whose remnants are now in Opposition and not too many of them are present tonight- connived in this subjugation of a free people. I quote from Geoffrey Fairbairn, writing in the  Bulletin,  when he last bade a tragic farewell to Saigon after Australia had left the South Vietnamese to their fate. He said: 
I never knew an Australian government could be so infamous in this fashion . . . 
This is Geoffrey Fairbairn talking about the people opposite when they were in power. He went on to say: 
The Canberra Government denied me the right to grant human beings mercy . . . This is infamy. I choose the word carefully: Infamy. 
The Vietnam moratorium and all who shared in it, whatever their motives, can shoulder the responsibility for the tragedy of Vietnam as surely as can the North Vietnamese troops. The same people in many instances and certainly the same type of people are now trying to turn public opinion in favour of the Fretilin- the communist force which being communist is inherently no different from every other communist movement that has done the job of subjugating any country to communism and all that means. The Fretilin is simply not a nationalist body with the support of most East Timorese aimed at East Timorese independence. The East Timor moratorium is simply not a spontaneous rising up of concerned Australians anxious to support a genuine independence movement in a small nation. It is a careful scheme organised by the Communist Party, communist and left wing led unions and student organisations, left wing aid agencies and a handful of hard core Fretilin activists in Australia. Is the picture not aU too familiar? It is designed not only to support the Fretilin and a communist takeover in East Timor, but also to embarrass this Government and weaken our ties with Indonesia. 
Fretilin supporters argue that Indonesia, by acting in East Timor, bloodily suppressed the popular Fretilin movement to expand its own territories. But when the Portuguese organised a conference in Macao in June 1975 for the 3 major political groups in East Timor Fretilin refused to attend and attempted to seize unilateral power through a coup in late August 1975. A UDT attempt to stage a coup before that date to forestall Fretilin failed and civil war resulted. Fretilin declared unilateral independence for East Timor, which it calls the Democratic Republic of East Timor, on 28 November. It was not until 7 December that Indonesia intervened. Until then she had been prepared to let the 
Timorese genuinely decide their own future, but it became obvious that under a government forced on them by Fretilin this would be impossible. 
One final point that should be brought out here is the involvement of the churches in the pro-Fretilin campaign, particularly through the Action for World Development Program. Action for World Development is officially sponsored by both Protestant and Catholic churches. In addition leading officials associated with the Australian Council for Overseas Aid, which includes official Protestant and Catholic Development Aid organisations, have played and are continuing to play a major part in the pro-Fretilin campaigns. These religious organisations draw their funds from their members' donations- money given for welfare and humanitarian aid. Donors are entitled to believe that these funds are used in a completely non-political way, for their own political views would represent a very wide spectrum. Yet if these aid bodies are actively supporting pro-Fretilin campaigns their money is being used to promote a communist led movement aimed at subjecting a whole people and a country to communism. Just how non-political is this? Just how many people who give money and time to Action for World Development and to the Australian Council for Overseas Aid and its various component bodies know what is happening to the money they give? It is reasonable to ask: Just how long will the Protestant and Catholic churches continue officially to support aid bodies that are being used to finance a movement that is actively and demonstrably pro-communist and therefore the very antithesis of every single message that they preach? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member for Hunter has not received the call. I call the honourable member for Port Adelaide. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to reports in the  Australian  newspaper dated 13 March and the Sydney  Sun  newspaper of 25 March of this year that the costs of the two FFG frigates for the Royal Australian Navy have soared to $500m- an increase of $ 170m- since his announcement of about a month ago? The  Australian  report went on to say that the order for the ships - 
-Has the Minister for Transport seen the report of 30 March in the  West -Australian  about assault by pickets on a citizen of Perth who was legitimately at Perth Airport? Will the Minister describe what sort of action he can take to prevent pickets from entering and damaging airport property and assaulting citizens? 
I want to say a word this morning about the family, from whose stable environment most of us have come. I know that honourable members opposite were probably thinking that I might say something unkind about them this morning, but I am not going to do that. I am prompted to speak on the family this morning because there are good family men on the other side as well as on this side of the chamber. Having spoken to a number of them since coming to this place, I have come to the conclusion that we all tend to take for granted this wonderful privilege that we enjoy. Another reason why I am speaking about it is that I believe there has been an overconcentration by all forms of the media in this country on the rather odd situations that substitute for family relationships. I suppose the thing that concerns me more than anything else is that these odd situations might become more accepted as the norm in this country at the expense of the family. I suppose the third reason I am speaking about this matter is that, having read with very great interest the splendid first speech made by  Senator Shirley  Walters in the other place, I felt that it was about time that somebody in this House drew the same sort of attention that she did to the importance of the family. 
It was not so long ago that it was unheard of for anyone to speak ill of motherhood or of the family. Today times have changed. There is a variety of attitudes on just what the family means and what the role of the mother and the father should be. There is a variety of attitudes to marriage itself and even to whether marriage is necessary to the raising of a family. With the advent of easy divorce, easy contraception and abortion, there is a questioning of the old values and codes of behaviour that bound the family together and made it strong. We have nothing to fear from change itself, from questioning the old ways and from examining new ones. What I believe we have to fear today is the type of change that is developing in thinking about the fundamental role and integrity of the family. What we have to fear is not the questioning but the direction that some of the pop culture answers are taking. 
There is, unfortunately, in the community a glib and vociferous minority which aims at destroying the fundamental family unit and replacing it not with anything demonstrably stronger but with alternatives that raise serious doubts about their long-term and short-term consequences. The Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of the United Nations declares: 
The family is the natural and fundamental group-unit of society and is entitled to protection by society and the State. 
The Declaration on the Rights of the Child puts it that 'The child, for the full and harmonious development of his personality, needs love and understanding . . . and shall, whenever possible, grow up in the care and under the responsibility of his parent'. Nearer home our own Liberal Party federal platform says: 
The family is a cohesive force in society and the Liberal Party recognises the necessity for strengthening its influence. 
-That is right and I thank the honourable member for Darling Downs. But how can our sensible ideals be upheld, especially in this time of change when the heart of the home, the woman, the mother, is being inveigled out into the workforce and children are more and more being farmed out to professional quasiparents? Dora Russell, former wife of the later Bertrand Russell and certainly one who could never be accused of any religious bias towards life, spoke recently of the world's deep need for real mothering. She believed that the lack of this mothering was the root of many of the problems of today's world. A recent survey showed that by far the majority of Australian women really want to be wives and mothers and to remain in the home. This may have surprised some but not anyone with any perception of how closely linked are women's biological capacity to bear children and the deep instinctive desire of the majority of women to fulfil themselves through that capacity. 
I agree with Dora Russell and many others that the rootless instability of so many young people and the problems arising from it stems in part at least from their lack of warm full-time mothering. But how can they get it when so many mothers work, either for economic necessity or because they have been conned by feminist movements and propaganda into believing the role of mother in the home is somehow a degraded one- a kept woman as one of the members of those movements put it, a vegetable? The bearing of a child is described by Paul Ehrlich, that great gentleman, as a 9-months disease and the child itself is presented in many quarters as an evil and a menace to the human race. Unfortunately, much of the feminist movement is a rejection of the mothering role. So also is any government action which forces or even encourages women to leave the home and their vital work of mothering and go out into the workforce. I want to emphasise that I do not deny women the right to choose their lifestyle in the community provided that their choice does not impinge on the rights of others. But I do believe that a change in emphasis is needed in this community back to upholding the value and integrity of the mother being available to her husband and children and fulfilling herself, finding her reward, in their stability and gradual growth to maturity. I believe that this Government should do everthing it can, particularly in its statements and policies, to bring this about. After all it is government statements which should give the country guidance and leadership. 
I believe we should upgrade the special nature of the woman as wife and mother within the home, encourage more women to take up that role and restore its pride, and remove from our society any pressures that might militate against any woman choosing that role if she wishes. Two of these pressures are inflation and taxation. Inflation makes the every day balancing of the family budget a heartbreaking impossibility without the added income from a mother's earnings. Therefore I support wholeheartedly every measure that this Government proposes towards curbing inflation. The burden of direct and indirect taxation also falls heavily on the family and undoubtedly is one factor in forcing women out to work, even though this adds to the family's overall tax bill. I urge this Government to do everything it can to lessen the burden of direct and indirect taxes on the family income. 
One aspect of taxation is often overlooked, I believe, when considering the stability of the family as the basic unit of a community. This is the inevitable financial cost to the community of what is sometimes called the permissive or libertarian society. This question was raised by  Mr Justice  Megarry of the English High Court of Justice in his fifth Riddell Lecture in 1972 and his comments perhaps are even more pertinent today. He showed how this libertarian society involves not merely a claim for absolute rights to live according to one's own desires but also a demand for facilities for that lifestyle. He pointed to the cost of doctors, lawyers and social help when drug taking gets out of hand. He talked of the cost to the community of clinics and hospitals and social help for venereal diseases and abortion clinics as a result of a demand by libertarians for their permissive lifestyle. He pointed to the cost of the facilities demanded by those who opt for the alternative society while still demanding recourse to the food, medical, dental, legal and other services which the alternative society does not and cannot provide. 
To this can be added the cost of child care centres demanded at government expense by those who insist on their right to farm out their children. Granted, these people pay taxes but if their demands are met to the full the rest of the community, including the family where the mother remains at home, must cany part of the cost. There is therefore injustice and a species of insanity in a situation where the family must bear a share of the cost of the consequences of a lifestyle which inherently is at war with the family concept. 
The new lifestyles, therefore, raise very serious questions of economic cost and social priorities. There is a limit to the proportion of the gross national product which governments can take in taxation. In the United Kingdom the Government already is taking 60 per cent of the nation's output. If money is spent by government on venereal disease clinics, drug treatment and assessment centres, abortion climes, social workers and child care centres for working parents there is less, in simple cash terms, to be spent on the genuinely poor, the deserted wives, husbands and children, the widows and the abandoned old. 
It is not a moral but a social question to determine spending priorities and I urge the Government to look closely and carefully at its priorities so that it not only does nothing to penalise the family but actually encourages its growth and strength. The Liberal Party's federal platform sums it up particularly well when it says: 
Liberals acknowledge the vital contribution of the family in the development of the individual and, if the family is having difficulty fulfilling that task, the community must come to its aid. 
In this context the Government is the community and I urge the Government to do all it can to encourage women back into the home so the family is not deprived of its heart. Finally I draw attention to the magnificent statement yesterday by the Liberal Party leader in the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly,  Dr Hughes,  in which he called for an increase in child endowment. I think this would be one of the factors which would encourage women to stay at home instead of going out into the workforce. 
-Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen a report in last Thursday's  Sydney Morning Herald  entitled 'Gift to the Communists', which told of $700,000 earmarked for Laos? Is this report true? If so, will the Minister have another look at this matter and perhaps report to the Parliament before the gift is finalised? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, it gives me particular pleasure to take part in this debate under your direction. I support the statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  The question of foreign investment actively concerns, perhaps more than many others questions, the whole of the mineral industry. It cannot be considered without looking closely at the stringent Treasury ruling that there must be a 75 per  cent  ownership in uranium and not less than 50 per cent in other minerals. At present this seems an impossible target. A glance at the share register of even such an apparently Australian company as Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd shows that less than 12 per cent of the stockholding is in Australian hands. 
I am very strongly of the opinion that the opposition to foreign investment in Australia is a confidence trick of the present Opposition, the previous Government. Where honourable members opposite got it from is anybody's guess- certainly they did not get it from anyone who has the best interests of this country at heart. The propaganda against the multi-nationals and foreign investment became a catchcry for the ranks of the Opposition and unfortunately it has been swallowed elsewhere. I do not believe that multi-nationals and foreign investment are,  per se,  bad. I believe that many multi-nationals are efficient, reasonable and sensible and are run by men who, while they are interested finally in profitand who is not- also realise their reasonable obligations. I believe that Australia simply cannot get its economy going again without massive injections of foreign capital, for the huge amounts of money needed to get development projects moving are simply not available in this country. If the Treasury ruling is to stand then we must find ways and means of making it work, otherwise we shall probably continue to be in the same sort of mess as we were in under the previous Government. It is pleasing to note the flexibility of the Treasury in the recent Robe River deal. 
The Labor Party's pursuit of the ideal of Aus.tralian ownership without having a clue on how to achieve it is one of the principal reasons for our being in government now. The Labor Party's ideal was a high-sounding one. It thought that the way to achieve Australian ownership was by expenditure of vast sums of government money, the forming of the National Investment Fund, the enlarging of the powers of the Australian Industry Development Corporation and the borrowing of some $8,000m for government resource development- putting Australia into permanent hock to shady pawnbrokers of the world. That program, which culminated in the Khemlani affair, marked the end of the previous Government, but unfortunately it does not seem to have marked the end yet of some of the attitudes that were present at that time. Regrettably, the AIDC, for instance, is still with us.  Mr BjelkePetersen  said on 19 March: 
We could forget all about development projects for a long time to come. That applies to all States. 
That is just an instance of the legacy that the previous Government has left us. It is a major tragedy. Even worse, there is every possibility that Australia will lose existing projects because the attitudes of mind which the previous Government had are still around. Some of the problem stems from the very high royalties companies must pay to States. Sometimes States burden the mining industry with costly and sometimes inefficient rail services. For instance the Francis Creek iron mine in the Northern Territory was forced to close largely because under the previous Government it was being charged $3.88 a ton for carting over a distance less than that over which the average Pilbara private enterprise miner operates at a cost of 50c a ton. 
The outcome of all this is that capital, both Australian and foreign, is going elsewhere. In the last three or four years, it has been estimated, some $7,000m worth of projects have been lost to Australia. Most new projects are in the lonely outback, so almost half their capital cost is taken up providing infrastructure- ports, railways, towns, schools, hospitals and so on. In the past, in the Pilbara at least, this has been provided by foreign capital to the extent of some $230,000 for every man employed. Those days are over. Further capital is not forthcoming. Places like Mount Newman and Paraburdoo are operating at a loss. Certainly no State Government can provide infrastructure. No Commonwealth Government ever will, and no multinational will do so in future. I do not believe that the States will be able to carry the load, nor do I believe it would be good for them to put their States into huge debt at high interest rates to help to get the projects going. What then? I do not think that the AIDC can do it, because its money is too dear and its track record is not the best. The Japanese are certainly not enthusiastic about the AIDC. I have the feeling anyway that the AIDC is not really a free enterprise organisation. 
I suggest that the Australian Government should introduce immediately a scheme to guarantee the respective State governments in new projects provided they in turn guarantee Australian participants in a joint venture that they will cover the provision of infrastructure; that is, if Australians own 50 per cent of a venture in which 50 per cent of the capital cost is involved in infrastructure- this is normal- then by means of government guarantee the Australians would be able to raise sufficient money to cover the cost of this infrastructure. This would mean that 50 per cent of the ownership of the project would remain in Australian hands. The Government of course should provide such a guarantee only for projects that have been proven economically viable by strict commercial standards. To put it into practical terms, and applying such a scheme to one of the giant Queensland coal projects at present in mothballs, it has been estimated for one such proposal that $ 1,000m capital is required, of which about half would probably be spent on infrastructure. To qualify for a government guarantee of that amount, firstly, the Australian interests would have to provide proof of a coal body and prove that say $10m had been spent on exploring and proving it. Secondly, they would have to have secured a long term take or pay sales contract so that the Government would have proof that the coal was saleable. Thirdly, they would have to give the Government an undertaking that the foreign element in the venture would put up its share of the capital. With all this done and a government guarantee, the 50 per cent Australian interest would have no trouble raising the capital it needs and in joint ventures with overseas interests providing the remainder, the project could move. The government would have ultimate security over the product proved in the ground as well as over the facilities that have been built with the money borrowed, as well as first call on the profitability of the venture; that is, ordinary commercial merchant banking procedures would be followed. 
The next thing to be assured is the method of repayment. It is here that the State governments must co-operate as part of the total Commonwealth ideal. They should be willing to ease their royalty demands. High State royalties are sometimes a bone of contention in the mining industry. Years ago excessive demands closed down mining totally for 10 years in one American State. It was started again only by the government not only subsidising the industry but also forgoing royalties entirely. We hope that it will not come to this in Australia, for there is absolutely no need for it if everyone pulls together to ensure the reasonable profitability of mining. 
It is from funds that in present circumstances would be earmarked for State royalties, together with any royalty that may be forthcoming to the Australian share of a joint venture financed in this way, along with the first call on profits from the Australian sector that reduction of the debt should be made until it is fully discharged. State and Commonwealth governments would gain from having an eminently profitable, booming mining venture generating income through reasonable taxation. Government would have a solution to some of today's unemployment and the economy generally would benefit tremendously. Ultimately governments could become the owners of the enormous facilities built to get projects going. All this would be at no cost to the Australian taxpayers or the State governments because in forgoing future royalties they would be forgoing nothing in present cash. Minerals lying dormant in the ground are yielding nothing in tax, nothing in royalties, nothing in foreign exchange, and nothing in jobs for thousands of Australians. In fact, minerals lying dormant in the ground do nothing but constitute a grave defence threat to Australia. I congratulate the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  who is also the Minister for National Resources, for making this point clear so forcibly. The scheme I suggest need not enlarge one single government department. Does not that have an attraction in itself. It need never bog down in the bureaucracy or be killed by hidebound orthodoxy anywhere. The best way to implement it would be by Act of this Parliament- an act which laid down in the simplest form the commercial criteria needed for any Australian venturer to qualify for the guarantee. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to 8 p.m. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. I am sure that all honourable members are glad to see him looking so well and in such sparkling form again. I ask: Has the Treasurer seen recent Press reports that a number of trade union leaders are intending to undertake industrial action as a protest against the changes which he announced to Medibank? Is the Treasurer concerned about these threats and can he give the House any indication as to their basis? 
I congratulate the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  on his support for Polish democracy and Polish independence just as enthusiastically as I condemn the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  for quoting last evening an editorial written by Father Wilkinson, the editor of the Adelaide  Southern Cross.  I certainly found what Father Wilkinson had to say interesting but I do not think it was an  ex cathedra  economic pronouncement which was worthy of anything more than interest in this House. It may have had interest but it certainly lacked objectivity in the sense that it did not say who was responsible for the unemployment which has produced what we call dole bludgers. I think the article would have been considerably improved if some reference had been made to those causes. I shall be interested in the future to see whether Father Wilkinson has something to say editorially about last Monday's disgraceful rail strike. It is on that subject that I want to speak now. 
I believe there is a real connection between last Monday's rail strike and last week's Woodstock outside this House by the Friends of the Earth. Both were certainly encouraged by  Dr Mosley  and his Australian Conservation Foundation and also by those in the backgroundthose who encourage  Dr Mosley  in his efforts. I think it is the same pro-communist crowd who in Victoria have used the Australian Conservation Foundation's former respectability to cover its sabotage of the Newport power station. Which are the unions involved? They are the Builders Labourers Federation, Building Workers Industrial Union, Plumbers and Gasfitters Union, Electrical Trades Union, Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, Waterside Workers Federation, Seamen's Union and the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's Association. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  will note that I did not include his old union because that is considered to be a right wing union, believe it or not. 
Not so long ago and he was in good health, too. Honourable members should note the fundamental importance of those unions to the economy and realise that they and others can hold up Australia- and not just Victoriawhenever they want to. The Australian Conservation Foundation really is what I want to say something about tonight. It was once reasonably respectable and balanced. That was in the days when  Sir Garfield  Barwick, Professor Fenner of the Australian National University,  Mr Ronald  Downs of the Victorian Department of Conservation and, I think,  Mr Dunbavin  Butcher, of Victoria, at one period, were executive members of the Australian Conservation Foundation. But they were rolled when the Mosley crowd backed by the left wing, got away in 1973 with a takeover, and the Federal Labor Government did absolutely nothing to stop it. Since then we have had dictator Mosley- I understand he is not related to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  who is trying to interject or to  Sir Oswald  Mosley of infamy - 
I withdraw the reflection,  Mr Speaker.  Imagine my surprise, anyway, when  Dr Mosley  turned up at the Government Parties' seminar on federalism during the last recess and gave us some ideas about what we should and should not do. One Press article which I have seen recently stated: 
The Australian Conservation Foundation is in everything, whether it is uranium mining, Newport power house, Concorde, green bans, Fraser Island, bauxite mining. This largely anonymous body commands access to the media and influence over public opinion beyond the wildest dreams of organisations with many times its membership. There is a conservationist interest to be preserved in every one of these issues so long as it is genuine, non-partisan and balanced. But is the ACF genuine, non-partisan and balanced. Who is behind it? In whose interests are its policy interests taken? 
The Australian Conservation Foundation is in receipt of something like $150,000 a year from this Government. I certainly hope that the Government will seriously consider just where that money is going and the results that it can have. 
-No, not all of them. I am asking the Government to consider seriously stopping payment of that money because I believe that what the Australian Conservation Foundation does is diametrically opposed to everything that this Government is trying to do in this community. 
-After that brilliant exposition of economic theory, and various others, I should like to recommend to the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  that if he feels so strongly about the problems in his area and its schools, he ought to ask his Leader  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and  Deputy  Leader  (Mr Uren),  who are going on a world junket, to donate the money for that junket to doing something about the schools in the honourable member's electorate. Every honourable member who moves about his electorate knows that inflation is the most fundamental problem for Australia. It matters not that the Opposition does not seem to see it and does not care about it. The very last vestige of credibility of the Opposition was removed tonight with the performance by the last Labor Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley. He may well be the last Labor Treasurer in this generation. The necessary aims of Government policy are clear and absolute- to curb and eventually halt inflation, to restore full employment and to re-establish healthy economic growth. The next 6 to 12 months will be crucial because in that time we will be implementing a broad plan for economic restoration. As a modest member- even perhaps half again as modest as the lone battler in the  Financial Review  who will be with us tomorrowI should like to make some observations on the matter. 
In the 3 years Australia laboured under a Labor Government there was an unprecedented transfer of resources- from profits to wages and welfare; from the private to the public sector. It was a conscious, classic Marxist manoeuvre to redistribute income along the lines of Wheelwright. The shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said that yesterday. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)There is no substance in the point of order. 
-Such a policy took from those prepared to work, risk and invest and created a new class of dependent drones- of which I see one or two examples here tonight- and a bloated bureaucracy without giving any substantial help to the really poor and powerless. One of the Henderson reports on Aboriginal welfare stated: . . . poverty is becoming professionalised and bureaucratised. In the process, it is becoming a lucrative business- for professional welfare workers, administrators, researchers and consultants. 
Until Labor came to power ours had been a mixed economy relying on the private sector for the productivity that brought improved standards of living, healthy expansion and a continuous growth of employment opportunities. The more vulnerable groups of society- the very young, the sick and the old- were cared for primarily within the family group. It was Australian Labor Party socialist government manipulation and policies that totally changed this previously totally practical arrangement. The family's desire and ability to care for its weak ones was fractured by the number of women forced to go into the work force, in so many cases simply because of unindexed tax. The very young and the very old had become a greater charge on the taxpayers along with the army of professional welfare workers, administrators, researchers and consultants, child minding centres and staffs and nursing homes. If Opposition members do not believe me they should look at their own bookshelves. There are reports galore by these people, hardly worth the time let alone the money. Most of it is mayonnaise of the meadow variety of which the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  would be familiar. 
This Government would not take the easy Labor way to electoral popularity, that is, buying votes with mass spending which does nothing to solve real poverty problems. How do bike tracks, walkways and environmental nonsense help a mother to stay home to look after her family? Our measures of 20 May, those historic measures, will begin the process. We have begun, I believe, to beat inflation by restoring the private sector after the battering it received from the Labor Government. Business confidence. and with it community confidence, is on the way to restoration. Our measures will be the beginning of the fight against inflation. Unfortunately, there seems little likelihood that 1976 will see more than a marginal slowing of the inflationary spiral, principally because of the critical effects of the 6.4 per cent wage increase awarded by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This, it has been reliably estimated, will add $3,000m to costs in the private sector. It also adds to the cost of the bureaucracy, the Laborinduced cost and size of which is an integral part of our inflationary condition and which this Government, I am glad to say, is setting about reducing. 
-They are not in tonight. Some members are concerned that people are beginning to save at an unexpected rate, instead of spending now in the expectation of higher prices as inflation continues. I do not find this surprising or disconcerting, for there has been a real feeling of uneasiness about the future evident among ordinary people. They had comprehended the full measure of what happened under Labor's violent spending spree and were consciously or unconsciously battening down their hatches to compensate. I do not believe this is bad. It could even do good. It will give way to a healthy balance between spending and thrift as the economy levels and stabilises and as confidence returns. In addition, it could actually help in one of the principal attacks on inflation- strong control over the money supply. 
We must get down to a measure that is at the core of the problem- the need to restore the relationship between wages and productivity. There are some- they are to be found on the other side of the House- who say that productivity is only notional. I do not agree. Our productivity increase is at present about 3 per cent a year. We will have to face the economic fact that wage and salary increases cannot be more than 3 per cent a year if we are simply to hold the line on inflation. Even this slight productivity increase of 3 per cent will not be maintained unless business can be encouraged towards new investment, a fact which has been provided for by our investment allowance. The Government is doing what it can at present. It is wisely committed to tax reductions in future. They should encourage both the private sector and the consumer. Sensible unions will see what they can do to stop strikes and delays and unseemly wage demands. The left wing unions- the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  would know a bit more about them than I do- and those under straight out communist control can be relied upon for only one thing, and that is using any political pretext to cause dissension and trouble throughout industry. 
The current reductions in government estimates are, I am sure, welcomed by the whole country. I am sure that there will be further reductions in government expenditure. I suppose there are as many ideas about where those reductions should be made as there are members of this Parliament. My view is that we ought to be cutting further on expensive, non-productive entities such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I simply cannot see why the Government should be spending, in a tight situation, on pop radio, current affairs propaganda programs, sex programs of dubious taste and worth, and the other odd assortment, good and spurious, put out by the costly, intransigent ABC. I also believe that social welfare programs such as the Australian Assistance Plan must be pruned to realistic levels before the Australian people lose their initiative and independence altogether and settle for a way of life based on handouts, as they were encouraged to do by our predecessors. 
-Thank you. The simple truth is that no realistic system of social services can reach the really poor if inflation continues unabated and if the economy continues to be administered by a battening army of professional bureaucrats who absorb an absurd percentage of moneys intended to help the poor. Such welfare payments as are required to help the genuinely needy should be made in some way that will ensure that they get directly to those who need them, without passing through a chain of bureaucratic middlemen. The Government has shown the way, with the family allowance policies. I would like to see the Government do the same with all other welfare policies. They should be on the needs basis only. 
I suggest to the Government that the best thing to do, as a means of helping to solve the unemployment problem, is to encourage more women to stay in the home. Many of them want to do that. Many in my electorate want to do that. Last October Marie Gammon wrote in the Melbourne  Age  something which I think is worth quoting. She wrote: 
If a woman cannot look after her own family then someone else has to and it does then become a matter of dollars and  cents-either  for the husband or the State or some combination of the two. 
It is interesting to note that a well known Women's Libber, Meredith Evans, said very much the same thing. I am not advocating that the Government pay wages to housewives, but I am suggesting that increased family allowances in future would be a solid means of encouraging women to leave the work force and to do the job which many of them want to do. I suggest that in future this is one aspect of government policy which is deserving of maximum attention. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nicholls)  adjourned. 
-I have no pecuniary interest in this matter. I just want to see this development and others get moving. The story of the hold-ups and delays in the Ranger and Pancontinental situations amounts to a major scandal. People on the site have a terrible story to tell. Really I suppose it could be told in a much better fashion than I am telling it here this evening. I suggest to those who are interested in this matter that they should read a quite brilliant article by Robert Duffield in the  Australian  of Friday, 13 August. Some of the things he recounts there would melt even the hard hearts of the people on the other side of the House. Those involved in the projects have got to a stage now where they feel they cannot count on anything; they feel they have not got the right to hang on to the sites that they have been prospecting and developing over the last couple of years. 
There are people there who have been working their hearts out but the mines are still not working concerns. They were forced to the awful indignity of having to go along almost as suppliants to the Fox Commission. This cost them $750,000 in addition to all the other money they had put into the mining venture. Now they have the extra problem in regard to the Aboriginal Land Rights Bill on which I suppose we are going to have a bit more to say later on. This situation is a scandal. This Parliament should take action as soon as possible after the Fox Commission report is received. I know we are in a situation where we have to wait and listen to what  Mr Justice  Fox has to say, but I still say it is a major scandal and is something which should never have occurred. 
-During the parliamentary recess I visited the Ranger uranium site at Jabiru and the Pancontinental uranium site at Jabiluka, both of which are in the Northern Territory. I am utterly appalled that these mines are retarded, particularly the Ranger mine, which has been the target of every greenie in Australia. I am shocked that the continual nonsense offered as evidence to the Fox Commission by extremists- I can only call them econuts- is being taken seriously. One might easily say that nothing so far offered to the Commission as evidence is in any way original. It seems to me that world nuclear experience, from mining to power generation, has not changed so much in the last 10 years that the experience and the knowledge gained should not be available to mine uranium safely. It seems to me that this experience could easily have been applied to Australian conditions by the project people themselves. 
I suggest to the Government that there should be no more delays. Let the Fox Commission leisurely finish its proceedings as its chief has indicated he wants to do. If  Mr Justice  Fox wants to go overseas, by all means let him do so, but let us get on with the job by definite Government decision. An example of what I call this extremist greenie nonsense has come to hand in a government publication. I refer to the  Northern Territory Newsletter,  the most recent issue of which turned up in my mail. I note that a professor from the University of Queensland has airily said that the proposed Ranger plant and township should be moved to about 30 kilometres west of the present site. 
As my colleague says, this is quite impractical. A little bit further on in the  Northern Territory Newsletter,  the professor airily says that to move the plant 30 kilometres westward would cost millions of dollars extra a year on haulage. No trouble at all! What appals me is that the  Northern Territory Newsletter  is one of our own government publications. It seems to me that if we are to encourage mining as we have indicated in the Budget, we ought to put a stop to this sort of thing. We play around with this sort of nonsense while everybody else in the world is getting on with the job. We act as though we are the only people in the world with uranium and other minerals for sale. We just do not seem to get on with the job. There is no doubt that places like Brazil will beat us to the punch completely if we continue to hold up developments in the way we have been doing. 
Most of the delays can be directly attributed to honourable members on the other side of the House. They had a real greenie complex for the 3 years they were in government. They listened to every scrap of nonsense that was ever handed out. Worst of all, they acted on it in this Parliament. They introduced legislation which held up mining developments. At the moment Peko and Pancontinental are ready to move. I think we should give them every support. I believe we should get on with the job. The story of the hold-up is a terrible one. 
I support the Budget. In view of what we have just heard- and the lights are still on- I would not mind donating 2 minutes of my debating time to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  because the more time he devotes to the Budget the better it is for our side. He has not convinced anybody of anything. 
The essential strategy of our Budget is correct. Let us not forget- and it does not matter how many times we say it- that the basic problem in Australia today is still high inflation. That cannot be said too often. Unless we beat inflation it will beat us. The experiences of the German Weimar Republic after the First World War should always be remembered. Certainly many other industrial democracies had dreadful inflation problems at the time but none had an inflation rate as high as Germany and this, coupled with other serious problems, produced a Hitler. So inflation is the real enemy and we are holding it by holding money supply amongst other things. Certainly unemployment is a problem but to call for higher Government spending- and surely this is the essence of everything that has been said by the Opposition during the course of this debate- simply means bigger debts, full wage indexation and devaluation, for it will amount to much the same thing, of the Australian dollar. This will not help our problems. Those who call for these actions do not seem to realise that what they are calling for will bring about precisely the opposite effect to that which they seek. In other words, such measures will increase unemployment. 
This is the experience of Great Britain. Huge government spending in Great Britain in socialist welfare experimentation and interference in supply and demand through buying into industry have left huge deficits and enormous industrial losses. These actions have led to mammoth unemployment of approximately 2 million people, if the latest figures are true. I think the  Australian  newspaper, with which I do not always agree, summed up the situation pretty well on Tuesday of this week, It said: 
For almost 2 years Britain has been stagnant. Almost nothing it produced was salable on the world market and it had to borrow to stay afloat 
The point all Australians must understand is that at present the Government and the rest of the nation are holding a thin tenuous line between maintaining our high standard of living and collapse. This is not an exaggeration. Look at Britain. It did not hold this line. It tried to improve real living standards at a time when productivity and production were dropping, and for this failure the people of Britain paid a very high price. 
Let us turn for a moment to the Leader of the Opposition and his very few followers. They were bored when he spoke on the Budget; they snored as the unfortunate honourable gentleman delivered his diatribe. One newspaper actually said that he 'attacked'. I think this dignifies the blast of hot wind that swept around the chamber for over an hour the other evening. The Leader of the Opposition proved as good a Treasurer as the several people he tried in that office and found wanting while in government. I just begin to wonder what is happening now in the Opposition. Already he has been through one shadow Treasurer and he is fast breaking the heart of the honourable member for Adelaide. I just wonder whether he ought to give the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  a try, mainly because the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Hindmarsh seem to be such firm friends and that is always a great basis for success in the Australian Labor Party. The  Sydney Morning Herald  summed up the contribution by the Leader of the Opposition perhaps rather better than I can. I think it is worth quoting. It said: 
The great weakness of  Mr Whitlam  's speech was its failure to recognise that the Budget tried to do what the coalition was elected to do: fix up the economy; cut Government spending; reduce taxes.  Mr Fraser  was elected with this charterabhorrent though it may be to many- largely in reaction to  Mr Whitlam  's own excesses. The Labor Party must learn that, while various sections of the community will happily urge it to spend more and more on this or that worthy cause, the great majority of the public is just not prepared to pay for it. It will pay neither through increased taxes nor increased inflation and unemployment, caused by deficits too great to fund. 
Those words are really worth recording in  Hansard.  Now I turn to the unfortunate shadow Treasurer, who repeated the sad story of his Leader. It would be difficult to sum up everything that he said, but it seems to me that if we neglect the semantics, of which there was a fairly large quantity, he tried to make the same point as was made during the election campaign by the Opposition over and over again, and that is that the high rate of inflation in Australia today is due entirely to world conditions- in short, that inflation has been imported to Australia. This is impossible. The only import commodity which could cause inflation in this country would be oil. The Opposition knows as well as I do that we are more than 70 per cent self-sufficient in oil. So, how the devil were we able to import inflation to this country? It is all very well to try to blame world conditions. 
The Prime Minister made this point earlier, and made it better than I can. The Opposition is looking for scapegoats. It has looked for scapegoats all the time. There just are not any. It is the Opposition's own fault. When in government it started the wage hike. It set the pace by using the Public Service as the lead dog. Now we have this terrible problem out of which we are trying to dig ourselves. The honourable member for Adelaide and his Leader do not seem to understand the fundamental fact that governments consume wealth rather than generate it. The Treasurer is completely right when he says that governments themselves cannot generate resources; they can only distribute them. Honourable members opposite might not like it, but that is a fact. There must be an acceptance by the community of the need to work together if living standards are to improve. The way forward is to generate more production, and this means, in essence, getting the nation back to work. For the Government's part this means establishing a climate in which there is incentive and reward for achievement. That certainly is one of the essential points of this Budget. 
We have heard much of the theory and practice of the economics behind the Budget. We have examined the strategy of the Budget and we have examined the tactics. Both sides have had a pretty solid chop at it. One of the most important things we must ask ourselves, even the gentlemen on the opposite side, is: What does the Budget do in my electorate? I know that honourable members opposite will go about their electorates blaming the Government and looking for the scapegoats about whom we have heard so much so far but there are some things that even they will be able to tell the people in their electorates. We on this side certainly will be going back to our electorates and saying things like this: 'We know that we have to put the Budget into the whole context and we know that the Budget has not been designed individually or tailored for particular electorates. But we have to look at the whole country and there are different situations in some electorates'. 
I do not think so and I think I will be able to demonstrate that to the honourable member for Adelaide. I said in my first speech in this place that I did not have to go to the doors of the people in my electorate and tell them about the problem of inflation. They knew about it and they wanted someone to do something about it. It was quite obvious that the people on the other side in this place were not capable of doing anything about it. That is why they sit where they are today. That is why I am here and that is why they are there in such small numbers. 
I have heard that one before. I suppose my name lends itself to that sort of thing. All I can say to my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Barton, is that I am willing to shed blood if my blood fertilises the ground and truth springs up. The important thing that will impress people in the Swan electorate is that they will be able to see that we have held the line on inflation. We know that it was running at about 17&amp; per cent or thereabouts when we came to office. I think it is well known that today it is somewhere down around 12 per cent. I do not think that that can be denied by any standard of measurement. In simple terms, what does this mean? It means that out of every dollar of disposable income there is Sc more in the hands of everybody in my electorate and in the hands of everybody in the electorates of Opposition members. People in my electorate will be able to see that family allowances are going directly to mothers, that this money is not being stacked up by greedy governments and handed back as deductions without interest to taxpayers. 
-Yes. And I must correct the incorrect impression of my colleague behind me, the honourable member for Perth. I have only 7 children, not 13. People in the Swan electorate also will be able to see that income tax has not been increased but is now indexed. This again means that greedy governments will not be able to rip off the public, particularly in the Swan electorate, as they did in previous years and as the previous Government did. Electors in Swan will be able to see that there are no price increases for those very simple pleasures that most of them enjoy, the pleasures of tobacco and liquor. They also will be able to see quite clearly that the help we have given to the States and to local government in accordance with our federalism doctrine will keep up and improve local necessities. Their health will not suffer because their revised Medibank plans will cater for them. 
The electors want to share in this cost; they do not want it for nothing. It was quite plain to me when I went around the doors during the election campaign- and I have been around a few times since then- that people understood that they cannot get things for nothing. They understand that they have to pay. They understand that somewhere along the line the money is going to come out of the taxes in some way or another and they would rather have lower taxes, and I emphasise that point to the Treasury. That is something to which the electors of Swan and every other electorate in Australia are looking forward in time to come. They do understand, however, that there is nothing to be had in this world for nothing and they are quite prepared to pay a reasonable amount for a reasonable service. I think that the moment they are satisfied that we are trying to do the best we can with the monster we inherited. 
On the same basis, I believe that my electors are completely satisfied that education is being well served by the Government and that it will not suffer fundamentally. My electors know that Labor's persecution of private industry, in which most of them work, could not go on, for if it did their jobs would disappear. That is another fact of life, whether one likes it or not. Most of the people in my electorate, and I think that this applies to most of the people in the electorates of every other honourable member, are employed by private industry. If a government persecutes them, takes away the profit motive and brings the manufacturing industry almost to the brink of despair the jobs of the electors will disappear. 
I am sure that my electors applaud the effort that is being made to revive the mining industry which is a most important basic industry in the State from which I come and which has tremendous flow-on effects in my electorate. The pensioners of Swan will benefit because pensions and benefits are to be tied to movements of the consumer price index. The first pay in November will show an increase of $2.25 a week in the standard rate of pension and $4 a week in the combined rate. Much the same applies to the old Diggers who live in Swan. There are quite a number of them there. They are not being overlooked in the Budget. I am very proud to announce support for two particular projects in my electorate for handicapped people. It will be good news for them. I know that they have been waiting for it for a while. At East Victoria Park, a suburb in my electorate, the Slow Learning Children's Group of Western Australia will receive $320,000 for capital and $24,000 for equipment. This is for the construction of a new activity therapy centre to obviate overcrowding at the organisation's existing centres. Approximately 100 handicapped persons are involved. The Government is also giving some help to the Civilian Maimed and Limbless Association of Western Australia at Victoria Park for rental of additional premises to provide sheltered employment and to obviate overcrowding in existing premises. Six handicapped persons are involved. 
These are the things that are being done by this so-called hardhearted, mean, tight-fisted Government. Amidst all the difficulties confronting us at the moment, the ordinary people of this country are not being neglected. These are just some of the features of the Budget which affect the electorate of Swan and I am sure that they affect other electorates as well. I am pleased about this because so many of these things were discussed at the door during my election campaign. In my first speech in this House I told honourable members what people had told me and what they expected us to do. This is one of the reasons why I am proud of the Budget. I am glad to be able to speak about it. I know that my electors will welcome what I have done to help matters along a little bit, and I am sure that that goes for every member of my Party. However, nothing is perfect. Compared to the socialist manifestos of the immediately previous Treasurers, the Budget is a real paragon of virtue. It seems to me that the indexation system may have long term difficulties in that it locks into the economy the presumption that inflation will always be with us. One of the problems that I see with inflation is that, should there be a fall in the CPI- this is what we are aiming for- then we have the problem of reducing everything locked in. This may have grave industrial consequences. However, if the indexation system is to be adhered to then it should also apply to family allowances, that most important measure to which the Government attended early in May. 
On this matter I have one or two suggestions to make based mainly on work done by the Associated Chambers of Manufactures in their submission to the Government. They are as concerned as we all are about our low population level. They believe that a significant improvement in the fertility rate could be induced by an improved social benefits scheme for women with children. Specifically they suggest that women leaving work to have families should be paid a benefit for the period during which they are caring for their family. In circumstances where the children of the family are cared for at home and are not forcing governments to provide child care faculties by way of creches and pre-schools, a differential payment might be considered to take care of the different circumstances applying in family care. It has been suggested that the allowance might be paid initially for a period during which the mother has a child under 5 years of age and is not in employment. 
It is interesting that the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia should say that. It is also interesting that an article in a permanent building society's magazine expressed concern about the same subject, namely the problem of the working mother and the need for us to increase the population. 
The honourable member is not helping me very much. We have the desire to encourage a population growth, which is so necessary. I think that we also all have a desire to implement the idea that the best place for a mother is in the home and not at work. 
The honourable member will find that there are great benefits to be derived by him if he does. The honourable member should look at the Budget and calculate just how profitable it could be for him. It is interesting to find that Meredith Evans, whom I have quoted previously in this House and whose views are basically different from my own, made the point in a recent article that a guaranteed income scheme is designed, amongst other things, to redistribute income vertically towards families in poverty and that the introduction of a guaranteed income scheme could lead to many wives in low income households ceasing to work. I regard that as a most important matter. I hope that the 
Government will take it up. I think it is something this country will need in the future. It is one of the things that, if implemented, will probably help to solve the unemployment problem as well because the unemployment figures no doubt include quite a number of married women who have no desire to work. If we were to make provision to help them to stay at home it would be a worthwhile gesture that would help Australia and help the economy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable members time has expired. 
I have some good news for the House tonight. We have just listened to a lot of nonsense from the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  The good news that I have to give the House tonight is that the Victorian Government has denied to the Australian Conservation Foundation the $5,000 that it has been accustomed to receive. This is the best news that I have heard. I want the House to be acquainted with this matter, particularly honourable members opposite. The people associated with this foundation, in my judgment, have been responsible for some of the worst industrial sabotage that we have seen in this country in the last 5 years. They are holding up all uranium development. They are holding up the Newport power house and now, it is announced, they will see what they can do to stop the old Newport power house. 
I wonder how honourable members in Victoria and the people of Victoria are going to get any power while this sort of action is tolerated. I believe that the Victorian Government has set a lead for Australia in isolating the Australian Conservation Foundation for what it is- an industrial saboteur holding up all industrial development in Australia. I hope that the Federal Government- our Government- will have a close look at the Australian Conservation Foundation because it also subsidises that organisation. 
Every piece of data that it produces works against everything that we are trying to do in stirring the economy, in stimulating people and in trying to get the sons of things that are going to be necessary in the future for providing employment. I hope that our Government takes a serious look at any allocation that it is thinking of making to the Australian Conservation Foundation. They are not all communists. I have said that on other occasions. Unfortunately they are people of the 'do good ' variety who do not know a great deal about what is necessary for the development of this economy, particularly in terms of power needs. I am afraid that these people are being led by the nose by elements which I can only describe as sinister. 
If any honourable member wants to have a look at a current issue of the Communist publication called  Arena  he will see the clear delineation of what the communists and the marxists consider necessary to hold up this country. I draw the attention of the House to this most important matter. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister seen a Press report suggesting that the recent appointment of a Permanent Head to his Department was made on the basis of a short list of only one name? Did the Government follow its own guidelines in making this appointment? 
-Here it is again, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  running away from the boiling pot. It was he who fuelled it last year and everyone in this House knows that is true. Why should the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or anybody else come into this chamber to listen to the Leader of the Opposition. We have heard it all before. He sold out last year whatever hopes the East Timorese ever had of a free independent existence. Now he comes in here with a sheaf of excuses which are almost exactly the same as his economic policy or the shards of it. Our Government is doing the best it can to hold stable our friendship with Indonesia while supporting the rights of the anti-communist East Timorese to a fair and equitable recognition. That is the best we can do in the circumstances. The former Labor Government left us with this pot boiled over like a lot of other things it left us with. We are trying to do the best we can. Nothing the Leader of the Opposition has said in this House today will in any way change the fundamental facts. 
It was the Leader of the Opposition who failed last year to recognise the fundamental problem and failed to do something about it. I see he is leaving the chamber and that is the best thing for him to do. I support the appropriations. Certainly, I have many reservations and I am sure some of the reservations are shared by many people in this chamber and outside it about individual items. I will come to some of those before I close. However, before anything else comes one essential principle: Without adequate military strength, foreign affairs is nothing and is this not the problem that we have had and is this not the problem that the Leader of the Opposition left us with? There is still enough left - 
-Listen for a little while and you might learn something. When the honourable member for Wills came back from Cambodia he exhibited a streak of honesty, a streak of touching and compassionate honesty which I have not seen exhibited by him since. He condemned the real problem in Cambodia, the communist problem as he itemised it, and he did not run away from it. Why has he been running away from that since? The essential problem of foreign affairs is that without military strength, foreign affairs is nothing. There is still enough left in the world today of the Germany of Bismarck and it was he, I think, who gave us the realities. These realities he gave us are still the realities of this world in terms of foreign affairs and military strength. He said that the realities were blood and iron. Even the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  would be aware that those realities have not changed. 
I do not underestimate spiritual and moral force, but they are not physical. Communism, which so many knaves and, I suppose, half wits, still claim is basically an idea which must be fought with a better one, are at least half right. They either conveniently forget in the case of knaves or they do not know in the case of the others, that without blood and iron communism would be just an idea. I am basing my support for some of the appropriation on the assumption that at least we are going to commence the long haul to self-reliance in defence. 
Perhaps surprisingly I do not attach all the blame for our present state of defencelessness on the Opposition- only 95 per cent of it. All defence and foreign policy is based, I believe, on the sound doctrine of a nation's permanent interests. Was it not Palmerston who said that there is no such thing as permanent friendships, only permanent interests. This apparently pragmatic doctrine is also a statement of principle which should be a cornerstone of policy for this country. I cannot understand how our permanent interests are helped in any way by some of the aid that we give to countries like Mozambique and Laos. Mozambique at the moment has a Marxist communist government. I quote from the  Pacific Defence Reporter  of September this year which states: 
The Intelligence Service of Frelimo . . . which is the Government of Mozambique- has been taken over and is now run by the Soviet KGB. An East German military Mission has recently arrived in Mozambique to control and organise the logistical system and services of the Frelimo military forces. There is no doubt that the Organisation of African Unity and the other forces that work with them consider that Rhodesia will be the next plum that will fall into their hands. 
At present the ANC have a 'trained' force of not more than 4000 terrorists based in camps in Mozambique, that are reasonably equipped for terrorist operations against Rhodesia . . . 
Frelimo sent a fully equipped force of some 2000 men to help the MPLA in Angola and this contingent should now have returned to Mozambique. 
We have a Marxist government in Mozambique. It is a problem. The problem as I see it is: What real good are we trying to do in sending any aid to a country which obviously has sufficient resources to be able to engage in aggressive terrorism like that? As for Laos, the other country I have mentioned, even the Department of Foreign Affairs must be aware that it is now under communist control. Anything at all that we do to assist Laos will be under the complete control of the Communist Government and could have no possible beneficial effect on Australia's permanent interests. That is what foreign affairs is supposed to be about. It will of course help to prove what Lenin said so long ago and so effectively, that capitalist countries are only too anxious to provide rope with which to hang themselves. 
I attach a great deal more importance to the brilliant analysis by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  last week of the problem of China than I do to much of the advice given by the Department of Foreign Affairs on China specifically and on communism generally. In a nutshell, the honourable member for Mackellar said something that none of us ought ever to forget. It is of course difficult to sum it up because his speech was of such brilliance that it is hard to put it in a nutshell. If it said anything else it said essentially that the cause of the Sino-Soviet split is simply a dispute about the best method of cutting our throats. That is something I think none of us should ever forget. We ignore the advice of the honourable member for Mackellar at our peril. 
I wonder sometimes too- I suppose this sort of advice comes from Foreign Affairs to the Government- about our diplomatic recognition criteria. We recognise such places as Mozambique, North Vietnam, Uganda and many others. 
-That is included in the IndoChina recognition. I wonder why we do not recognise Rhodesia. Why do we not trade with Rhodesia? One does not have to support everything about Rhodesia to see that there is a basic inconsistency in recognising regimes such as those I have outlined and failing to recognise Rhodesia. I understand that in matters of trade the United States, the United Kingdom and many other countries have goods for sale in Rhodesia, so of what use is all the moralising by these countries on these matters. They are profiting by the sale of their goods in Rhodesia. The only country- and it may be to Australia's credit, but it seems to me to be totally unrealistic- that has no goods on sale in Rhodesia, the only country that is suffering desperately from the Rhodesian boycott is Australia. My friends who sit in the Country Party corner in this place know about this because they cannot sell wheat, dairy produce etc to Rhodesia. This seems to me to be a most magnificent inconsistency. I have heard it suggested that we ought to abolish the Department of Foreign Affairs. I am not going to go along with that. I know I am regarded as a bit of an extremist in this place, but I do not go along with that suggestion. It has been suggested to me that perhaps we are providing jobs for overeducated dilettantes and sophisticates, some of whom actually do us harm at home and also throughout the world. Of course this is a generalisation, but it has happened elsewhere. It certainly happened in Europe before the last war, and we must never forget that poor Neville Chamberlain, the object of so much abuse, would have been advised by the Foreign Affairs Department or whatever it was called then - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Does 
Telecom, as a matter of course, transmit any messages received from unauthorised or pirate radio stations outside Australia to addressees in Australia? On what basis does Telecom receive messages from unauthorised or pirate radio stations in East Timor? Who pays for the reception and conveying of the messages received by Telecom from East Timor which are conveyed to addressees in Australia? Finally, if public money is used to pay for the service could Parliament be provided with a list of the principal addressees who have received these messages? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Education aware that at universities and other tertiary institutes in Australia there are a large number of splendid theatres, theatrettes, auditoriums and the like which are suited to a variety of theatrical and other recreational purposes and which are being provided almost totally from the public purse? Does the Minister agree that these premises should be made more widely available to the general public and to performing groups not directly connected with the educational establishments themselves? Will he consider negotiating with the appropriate authorities in each State to have these premises more widely used, as it could relieve the demand for government subsidies for the performing arts? 
-Has the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs heard that in Western 
Australia oil companies such as Ampol and Shell are providing 60 days credit to ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd and that the price per gallon paid by ACTU-Solo is less than that paid by old established independent lessees of company stations. 
I have not finished yet. Is the Minister aware also that service stations leased to the independent proprietors are now virtually on payment with order for petrol where previously they had 7 days credit and that some proprietors have said publicly that in effect they, and not the oil companies, are financing the ACTU-Solo operation? Will the Minister have a look at this matter to see what can be done, either through the Prices Justification Tribunal or perhaps through restrictive trade practices legislation? 

 -Mr Chairman, if I had any doubts about the relevance of this proposal, those doubts have been dispelled now because I can see from the manner, matter and method of honourable members opposite that every single amendment that we propose must be good. In total, the opposition of honourable members opposite has resolved into a cheap, nasty and quite cowardly attack on the officials of certain trade unions, including the Federated Clerks Union and John Patrick Maynes. To base an attack on good amendments on personal abuse of someone who has served his union and this country well for so long is to fail to provide sound opposition to what is proposed. 
It is what we expect from the honourable member for Port Adelaide. Not only the honourable member for Port Adelaide but also every other member on the other side of the Committee- there are not many of them here at the moment- every member on this side and every member in the National Country Party corner has come to this chamber through a series of elections, the first stage of which operated on the collegiate system. Not one honourable member can deny that fact. If that is the case, why do honourable members opposite come in here and attack the collegiate system with such bitterness? There must be a reason. Perhaps the reason can be found in the words of  Sir John  Egerton who warns the trade union movement about the activities of minorities within its own ranks. 
I think  Sir John  Egerton knew so much that he could not tolerate these people any longer. He knows what the truth of the situation is. He knows very well that for years people on the other side of this chamber have been supporting, without any hesitation, Communist Party organisations. Those bodies have been supported all the way, just as honourable members opposite are supporting them tonight. The only people who can gain if these amendments are not carried are those who have been running minority subversive movements in trade unions for more years than I have been alive. They are still there in the trade union movement. Why is it that honourable members opposite must always go in to bat for people such as these, who are dedicated to the destruction of every decent aspect of trade unionism in this country? Time after time, they will come into this chamber and defend these people. 
It is quite clear, as an honourable member on my side says, that a deal has been done. I prefer to listen to the voice of experience, the voice of  Sir John  Egerton when he says that these people demand that the majority accept the minority rule. It is quite clear that, under the collegiate system, rank and file members have the prime say, just as they have the prime say in the selection of those who are elected to either side of this Parliament. The rank and file, in that respect, elect people to a college; then the college elects the Federal officials. There cannot be a more sensible and more democratic system for those trade unions which prefer that method of operation. We on this side of the Committee have tried to provide an opportunity for those trade unions which prefer this system, which have used it for a number of years and which have used it successfully. No objection at all has come from anybody within that section of the trade union movement to the adoption of a system of collegiate voting. It is Opposition members who are trying to destroy this system that we seek to give those trade unions by enshrining it in the industrial law of this country. 
It seems to me that we on this side of the chamber have a difficult job in trying to convince members of the Opposition that it is about time they severed their connection with those people who have kept them out of office for so long. When will Opposition members wake up to the fact that they only time when the Australian Labor Party was ever electorally successful in the long term- it was not terribly long- was when it had the very much despised grouper system. 
The honourable member for Melbourne has been interjecting in my direction this evening and talking about groupers. I am proud to have been a grouper. I think I see one, not a million miles from here but in the Senate, who was also a grouper and who did a good job for this country when he was. He did such a good job that people on the other side were so anxious to get rid of him that eventually they destroyed him. I suppose that that about sums up what honourable members opposite have been trying to do by their opposition to the Government's proposals. In this debate throughout this evening, all that they have been able to say is that our proposals are somehow a creation of John Patrick Maynes and of the National Civic Council. What a wonderful tribute they pay to the NCC. To think that it could have such tremendous influence as to make a debate such as this possible. Honourable members opposite are just kidding themselves. It is quite plain to us on this side of the House what is necessary to guarantee a proper, democratic system in the trade union movement, and that is what we have done. I am more than ever convinced that what we have done is right. 
-Today I read a statement made by that professional chatterbox Paul Ehrlich who I understand is an expert on butterflies. What does this prince of pseuds have to say to us on his latest visit to Australia? He says that Australia, like the United States, already is badly over-populated and should continue to restrict its population growth. What is most regrettable is that an Australian university - Macquarie University- has money to waste on a pedlar of this puerile nonsense. Believe it or not- thank God this is in New South Walessome academics are prepared to support this situation. I think it is regrettable that Ehrlich has been given this temporary post. I hope its temporary nature is for about only 24 hours, but it will probably be for a little longer than that. He has been given the post of visiting professor of environmental studies. As if there are not enough of them in the country already. 
There is no doubt in my mind that in the immediate future the prophecy will be fulfilled that Ehrlich is here for one reason only: He is here to try to destroy the Australian uranium industry. He failed completely in the United States. All honourable members are aware of the result of the recent Californian referendum on nuclear energy. They are also aware of the referenda which were run in conjunction with the presidential election and of how unsuccessful the anti-nuclear lobby has been in the United States. It was done like a dinner. I believe that we will do the same here. I hope that when the time comes for us to argue this matter out Paul Ehrlich will receive the same sort of reception in Australia as he received in the United States. He is supposed to be an expert on butterflies, I understand. I hope he feels that he would like to fly home on those gallant wings when we have finished with him. In any case, this man has made a disastrous start on his latest package tour here by making these ridiculous statements about population growth. He is telling us, as one of the largest countries in the world with one of the smallest populations and some of the greatest riches, that we cannot have extra population. I think this logic will certainly commend itself to the Australian people! 
Yes, as my friend behind me says, we have some of the best brains too. But, after listening to the debate this evening, I must say that they are all on this side of the House. I think that Ehrlich 's statements are an insult to the intelligence of every Australian, even to people on the Opposition side. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  would have to confess that perhaps this time Ehrlich is wrong. I believe that Ehrlich being given a job in this country is an affront to every single taxpayer. After all, all of us contribute. Probably all of us are paying a small segment of his salary. I think that in another vigorous age he would have been run out of town. 
Ehrlich probably would have had a good companion in the honourable member for Corio. But we have grown soft. We tolerate. We even applaud mountebanks and charletans as long as they can talk at a great rate of knots, even if the talk is meaningless. I would like to know who is responsible for giving Professor Ehrlich a job, however temporary. I would also like to know whether the Australian Conservation Foundation, for which I think honourable members know I have not a great deal of time, has had anything to do with Professor Ehrlich 's visit. Perhaps the ACF and Professor Ehrlich could join the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in his Canberra carnival in December for the birthday suit brigade. I understand they are going to dance and bay at the moon. That is a suitable activity, I think, for  Dr Ehrlich  and for all that he stands for. 
-This evening I would like to say a couple of a words about the safety of nuclear power and also the results of recent public opinion polls in Australia and the United States of America. The recent Fox report referred to the many wildly exaggerated statements made about the risks and dangers of nuclear energy production by those opposed to it. Misleading and unfounded propaganda of the anti-nuclear lobby is continuing to confuse and worry the public. This anti-nuclear lobby has deliberately made it difficult for the average citizen to make a well-based assessment. Yet, with all of that anti-nuclear propaganda, the most recent public opinion poll in Australia- that is, the gallup poll of 5 November 1976- is in line with some of the voting in the United States, about which I will speak a little later. The first fact is that 70 per cent of those Australians polled are in favour of nuclear energy. I do not think it is really relevant to mention the 17 per cent who are against it or the 1 3 per cent who do not know. I suppose one can split those who say they do not know, half and half. Anyway, 70 per cent are in favour of Northern Territory uranium mining; 50 per cent are in favour of encouraging the sale of Australian uranium overseas; and 71 per cent are in favour of Australia developing nuclear power for peaceful purposes. 
I think this is a tremendous tribute to the common sense of the average Australian voter such as I find in my electorate and such as individual members on both sides of the House find in their electorates. If honourable members opposite were honest enough to admit it they would tell this House at appropriate times of what people have told them about this matter. The people of this country are not fooled by all of this antinuclear propaganda. I think they have made up their minds pretty conclusively to back what I think will be the Government's decision- I am' not supposed to be speaking about uranium mines- to go ahead and develop nuclear power plants. 
I refer now to the voting in the United States. It should be remembered that a tremendous fear campaign was conducted by the anti-nuclear lobby in the United States. Voters in 7 States of the United States, representing about 20 per cent of the population, have now strongly endorsed nuclear energy. I think honourable members will recollect that the first significant breakthrough was in California in June. We were told by the anti-nuclear lobby that our side of the question had no hope of carrying the vote in California. It was carried quite considerably. Now Arizona, Colorado, Montana, Oregon, Ohio and Washington have rejected all of the nonsense from the anti-nuclear lobby by a majority of about two to one. This has happened in spite of the tremendous efforts of that great propagandist, Ralph Nader. 
The facts of the safety of nuclear power are quite plain. It has been proved to be among the safest industries yet established in the world. Official United States figures show that the annual death rate in the coal industry is 1 1 times greater than that in the nuclear industry, including mining, that injuries are 7 times greater in the coal industry and that man days lost are 10 times greater. Radio active waste has been handled completely safely over the 20 year history of nuclear power production and plans now in hand for handling the waste material are technically sound and feasible and will lead to a continuation of this excellent record as the industry grows. 
I propose not to devote much time to  Dr Mosley.  I think the House is well aware of my opinions about him. After today I fear that  Mr Speaker  might be severe on me if I say what I really think about  Dr Mosley.  In any case I think the case is pretty well proven. Ever since the Teller report 27 years ago in the United States there has been an unparalleled safety record for nuclear power. No matter how many lies are told about that record and no matter how much emotion is generated, it cannot be surpassed. 
-That is the voice of experience. No one in this chamber would be surprised to hear the nonsense which the honourable member for Chifley speaks, but I will not say much about that tonight. I regret that the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  is not here because limited- on his own admission last Tuesday night- and good-natured as I know he is, he could not grasp the central thesis of the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  last Tuesday night. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro presented a proper concern about the deterioration of literacy and numeracy in Australian schools. He cited the report of the Australian Council for Educational Research which showed that such deterioration was factual. On the other hand, the honourable member for Burke obviously considers that teaching the art of street demonstrations is much superior to teaching the basic skills of counting and sentence-construction. 
That is what he said last Tuesday night. I want to support the honourable member for Eden-Monaro and relate some American experiences which seem to me to be directly related to the Australian situation. Actually there is not a great deal of difference. Nearly half of the entering class at the University of California at Berkeley, a fairly selective school which takes only the top eighth of California high school graduates, failed placement exams and had to be enrolled in remedial composition courses. Applicants to journalism programs at Wisconsin, Minnesota, Texas and North Carolina flunked basic spelling, punctuation and usage tests at rates that varied between 30 per cent and SO per cent. A survey by the Association of American Publishers showed that first year university students really do read on what used to be considered just a high school level. 
American students are not learning to write because nobody is bothering to teach them how. Like many other bureaucracies the United States universities have become in large measure ingrown, so self-contained that most of their faculties believe, without even pausing to think about it, that what is good for them is good for the culture at large. In English departments, where one would expect a concern for literacy to be located, the attitude of self-interest appears to be all but universal. Far from resisting the general dissolution, English professors as a group pay almost no attention at all to such mundane topics as literate writing. This will not really concern the honourable member for Chifley, so he can go back to sleep. The business of the American English department is not the teaching of literacy; it is the worship of literature. 
An American professor, Gene Lyons, said that after 8 years' experience as a student and seven more as a faculty member at five State universities, every day he was more astonished by the increasing distance between most English departments and the everyday concerns of the society that pays their bills. So accustomed have they become to thinking of themselves as the very vanguard, if not the salvation, of Western culture, that the average member of 'The Profession', as it likes to call itself, believes that society exists to serve literary scholarship rather than the other way round. What he was saying applied in varying degrees to almost every academic discipline that he knew anything about, particularly those in the humanities, arts and social sciences. As things stand now, it is rare to find more than half a dozen college students in the United States out of a class of twenty-five who say that they were given regular instruction in writing in secondary school. The more perceptive students see teachers like this less as dedicated practitioners of their disciplines than as persons whose good fortune it has been to convince the government or the trustees of schools to underwrite their hobbies. What students are learning from such teachers is that learning to write is simply not very important. 
That is the sort of thing that we as taxpayers have had to put up with in this country for many years, particularly during the last 3 years, when every crackpot who wanted to announce himself as a sociologist was able to give advice to students, to go into the streets and demonstrate and not worry about the basic skills which the honourable member for Eden-Monaro spoke about last Tuesday. 
-I support the Seamen's Compensation Amendment Bill 1976 which, in company with Bills dealt with yesterday, is designed to help workers. In this case, as in the case of watersiders, they are all unionists because of the closed shop, compulsory unionism policy of the seamen and the watersiders. The Opposition keeps putting forward the slogans about union bashing. Honourable members opposite accuse us all the time of union bashing. It was done this morning. It was done on a number of other occasions. Yet we are going to compensate seamen. I think one could say without fear of cantradiction that the Seamen's Union of Australia is communist controlled. It is perhaps one of the worst unions in Australia in this regard. It has repeatedly held Australia to ransom. I think the findings of  Mr Justice  Sweeney in his interim report of last year proved that. If time permits, I will quote a few extracts from that. For many years this union has been one of the villains in Australia. Yet this so-called unionbashing Government is taking steps to see that seamen and their dependants are adequately compensated. It should be repeated that this is a communist controlled union. There is no doubt at all about this. I wonder how honourable members opposite will be able to keep up this lie that we bash the unions when we are prepared to take humane measures such as this. 
The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  in his second reading speech, outlined the main purpose of the Bill, which is to increase the rates and amounts of compensation available under the Seamen's Compensation Act to seamen and their dependants and to ensure that the monetary rates payable are kept in line with the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill 1976. The increased benefits will not cost the Commonwealth Government anything. The payments under the Seamen's Compensation Act are the responsibility of the shipowners. Having been robbed on so many occasions, they are once again picking up the tab. I mean what I say. They have been robbed on numerous occasions. A few extracts from  Mr Justice  Sweeney's report, I think, will prove it. Probably one of the worst cases was that of Australian Newsprint Mills Ltd. I quote from page 42 of the report. This is a letter which  Mr Justice  Sweeney quoted: 
On behalf of Australian Newsprint Mills Ltd we enclose a bank cheque of $17,669.30 which you have demanded be paid to your account number S090091, and request your receipt. 
This represents the difference in money amount between rates of pay and annual leave conditions of crew members of the vessel  Sevillan Reefer  and Australian rates of pay and annual leave conditions . . . 
Australian Newsprint Mills Ltd has agreed to make this payment to your account on the understanding that the  Sevillan Reefer  will be provided immediately with union services required to allow the vessel to leave the port of Sydney. 

 Mr Justice Sweeney reported: 
This letter together with a cheque for $ 1 7,669.30 was then delivered to the SUA and tendered to  Mr Elliott's  secretary. 
He is the communist secretary of the union. The report continues: 
Exception was taken by Elliott to the final paragraph of the letter and the company advised that the letter and cheque would not be accepted with the final paragraph. The letter was then retyped, omitting the final paragraph, and it and the cheque handed to Elliott. The ban was then lifted and the vessel allowed to sail. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I think the honourable member is straying a little wide of the subject matter of this Bill. I allowed him to proceed to illustrate a point. I think that at the moment the honourable member is making the illustration almost a major part of his speech on this legislation. The Minister when introducing this Bill said that its main purpose is to increase the rates and amounts of compensation payable under the Seamen's Compensation Act to seamen and their dependants. It is a matter of compensation to individual seamen rather than something related to the union concerned. I might suggest that the honourable member has illustrated his point sufficiently. 
Thank you for your guidance,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I felt it was important to make the point that the Seamen's Union does not have a good record. The union consists of individual seamen. However, I will accept your guidance. I think that the Government has been very generous in legislating in the way it has. Of course the benefits proposed by the legislation are not costing us anything. Governments past and present have given benefits such as this. Usually one of the easiest things to do is to dispose of other people's money. We do not like it very much when we have to pay for these things ourselves. We have legislated to provide for increased compensation to seamen and their dependants. We have legislated to remove limitations in respect of the amounts payable for medical and ambulance services. We have legislated to remove the restrictive provisions in the Act to bring compensation practices into Une with the practices that have applied to Commonwealth Government employees since 1971. We intend to make the legislation retrospective to 1 December 1976. In conclusion, I support the Bill. I think it is really an excessive generosity on the part of this Government. I hope- it is possibly too much to hope- for some sort of contrition from the Seamen's Union in response to what we have done. But I fear that that expectation will not be realised. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Connor)  adjourned. 
I would like to continue on from where I left off last week on the subject of literacy and numeracy in schools. This is a matter about which the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  and I are taking some sort of interest. 
Yes, we are continuing to take an interest because we are concerned. This week's  Bulletin  contains a letter, part of which states: 
Any observer of the educational scene in Australia, indeed any parent with a number of children who passed through the State educational system within the last 10 years, knows very well that literacy and numeracy have been progressively de-emphasised and diluted by the inclusion of numerous laudable-sounding but vague and often meaningless aims'. 
That letter was written by a gentleman or perhaps a lady from the University of Sydney. On the other side of the continent-in my local electorate, in fact- Anne Matheson writing in the  Swan Express  stated: 
I am damned if I know what to make of the primary school teachers right now. They work less hours than most people in the workforce, get many more weeks off on full pay than the average worker but still they are not satisfied and still the standards are not as good as they should be. 
I would also like to read a small quotation from  Sir Mark  Oliphant with whom I have not had much agreement about many things in recent years. He said: 
In the case of education you just cannot educate anybody who hasn't got the basic principles of the three Rs thoroughly drilled into them. And if they don't want to learn, it 's got to be pushed into them. 
That leads me to what is the fundamental problem. It seems to me that one of the root causes of these problems is the lack of discipline in the classroom and, unfortunately, in the home. There are too many young teachers graduating who have neither the ability nor, apparently, the will to instil discipline in pupils. Too much emphasis is placed on the irresponsible rights of the individual. The idea that each individual has a responsibility to society and to those in the classroom with him does not rate highly in the list of priorities in teacher training. Nor does it appear to be in the list of virtues instilled into children by many teachers, or by many parents at home. 
Everyone who has any contact with schooling- I do not call it education, which is a lifelong process, but schooling- can cite shattering instances of illiteracy and total inability to express oneself amongst young people who are gaining what should be the benefits of an extended, expensive schooling. I recently saw some school essays that displayed an incoherence and lack of spelling ability that shocked me, for the children concerned were destined for high school next year. One of my constituents, a visiting teacher in a state school, gave me this telling experience. From essays about a recent visit the class had made, she noted that two salient points among many others had been remembered by the whole class. On inquiring why the first had been remembered, she was told by the class, almost to the child: 'Because you wrote it on the board and made us learn it'. On the second, the answer was even more enlightening: 'When you told us this, everyone had to be quiet and we heard you, so we remembered '. 
With classrooms where quiet attentiveness while a teacher teaches is a rarity, what hope have children of having fundamentals like good spelling, basic numeracy, and simply reading ability instilled into their young minds? Earlier this year,  Mr John  Penrose left his job as a lecturer at Adelaide College of Advanced Education because he believed Australia was being ruined by this lack of discipline, and that it was our schools and educational establishments where that disrespect for authority begins. It is not hard to agree with him. 
It is time this country began to realise that certain moral and ethical standards must be accepted and insisted upon in our schools if schooling is to have a positive influence for good or even to be reasonably successful. Today I honestly wonder whether we are getting anything like our money's worth out of what we spend on schooling. If honourable members have ever listened- as I have often have- to children discussing their teachers respect are those who will not stand for any rubbish, who insist on attentiveness in class and on a standard of disciplined behaviour. The teachers the children laugh at and ridicule are the ones who demand no respect from their pupils. They do not get it. 
I am not interested in what the honourable member said as I do not have much time left. This lack of discipline extends, I am afraid, into too many homes as well as well into the school. Many good teachers who really try to maintain discipline in the classroom find themselves thwarted by parents who simply do not care or by others who consciously resent any attempt by the teacher to shape their child in some civilised measure. 
-There is not a great deal of time left for this debate and I do believe that the issues of defence have been fairly well canvassed in this long and protracted discussion. I should like to remind the House that today is one day after the anniversary of the bombing of Pearl Harbour. A lot has been said already by honourable members on both sides of the House. There are a few old diggers on the other side of the House as well as on this side and, as one who is grateful for his whole skin, I think it is reasonable to thank the old diggers on the other side of the House. Although I have condemned some of them in the past, I know that some honourable members opposite have as much interest in defence as we have on this side of the House. We should like to see a bipartisan attitude adopted towards defence, but there are particular reasons why honourable members on the other side of the House cannot adopt a bipartisan attitude. These reasons go away back into the past, and honourable members opposite are all too familiar with them. I shall not canvass them now. 
I emphasise to the House that everything that is said in this debate must tie up with what happened at Pearl Harbour all those years ago. The fact is that the democracies have never been ready to defend themselves. No matter what we try to do to convince the Austraiian people, and even to convince people within this House, this is still the case. I do not want to be the conscience of the peace, but I do not think that this debate has been treated with the seriousness that it deserves. It was interrupted several times. There is nothing more serious to which our attention should be directed than the matter of defence. 
-Yet there are people on the other side of the House who always misrepresent our intentions by calling us warmongers, fascists and so on. 
If wanting to defend this country is being a fascist - 
If I have to accept the epithets from the other side of the House in order to speak about defending this country, I am pleased to do so. Somebody has to do it. If I am going to be a target, that is well and good. But somebody has to speak about the problem which this country is facing. We are still unready, even with the White Paper and all the things it has told us. I approve of all the things in the White Paper but we are still unready for any sort of an attack. We are surrounded by potential dangers. There is no question about the main line of danger to this country. There is no doubt at all that it comes from the communist countries. We cannot do a great deal, I suppose, to retaliate against a direct attack. But there is much that we can do to ensure that we are properly defended within. It seems to me that the responsibility of this House and of the people in it is to give the message to the Australian people. Somehow or other we have to get them out of the feeling of apathy which they have at the moment. 

 -Mr Speaker, I ask you not to worry about the interjection. 
Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that the Commonwealth Employment Service is assisting in the recruitment of staff for abortion clinics? Has the Minister any information about the circumstances surrounding an incident in Canberra recently when a representative from a Sydney abortion clinic operated by Population Services International used the offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service at Woden to interview job applicants selected by the CES for a proposed abortion clinic at Phillip? Does the Commonwealth Employment Service look at the industrial relations of the firms to which it sends applicants? Does the Commonwealth Employment Service know that some staff of Population Services International in Sydney resigned recently in protest over working conditions? Did the Commonwealth Employment Service check with the Capital Territory Health Commission before assisting Population Services International, to find out whether the proposed abortion clinic would be within the law and would meet all requirements for health clinics? Finally, if the Minister is not familiar with the matters to which I refer, will he undertake to have them examined by his Department? 
-In May 1973 a vote in this House overwhelmingly rejected moves to legalise the wholesale killing of the unborn in the Territories controlled by the Federal Government. Many honourable members from both sides of the House were here at that time. I draw to the attention of the House that less than 4 years later, despite that vote and without any changes in the law, moves are well in hand to bring into Canberra 2 organisations that specialise in wholesale abortions, virtually on demand. One is Population Services International which I will refer to as PSI. The other is Preterm Canberra which has applied for incorporation in the Australian Capital Territory. Recently PSI used the Commonwealth Employment Service office at Woden to interview staff for an abortion clinic which was expected to open this month. Both organisations exist to make money out of abortions. Because of ambiguities in State laws they are able to perform and charge for these abortions in other places in Australia without any apparent legal problems. They are also able to have them paid for through Medibank. So Australia's heavily burdened taxpayers are subsidising the profits of those engaged in the sole business of killing unborn children. 
Anyone who is naive enough to believe that the abortion business is motivated solely by deep compassion for a few desperate women and girls should look at how profitable that compassion can be. Last financial year, for instance, PSI made a profit of $173,575. On Tuesday night on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio program  Broadband  PSI's project director said that it now had an annual cash flow of $lm. PSI claims that its profits are spent extending its activities- PSI death factories- to country areas. PSI's clinic in Canberra apparently will be funded from overseas just as was the clinic which it opened in Sydney recently, probably from the 
United States of America. Perhaps the interdepartmental committee on foreign investment ought to consider whether this sort of traffic is really for the good of this country. 
The man described as PSI's project director is  Dr Geoffrey  Davis, now of a Sydney address.  Dr Davis  has a known affection for vintage cars. He owns a number of them and several modern Maseratis.  His  latest acquisition, according to the  Australian  of January 1977, is a vintage Mercedes-Benz which the newspapers claim is probably worth at least $100,000 on the world market. I suggest to the House that these are real dividends of death. The doctor's connection with the abortion business obviously is not making him a pauper.  His  profit is being made from a trade that deals death to Australia's most desirable prospective citizens- innocent unborn children. It comes largely from the public purse of this country. 
PSI at present is doing an estimated 200 to 300 abortions a week, the costs of most of which are claimed under Medibank. It takes late term pregnancies for termination; that is, 18 to 20 weeks or even 22 weeks. The unborn baby, I think most honourable members will know, is fully formed and very well grown at 1 8 to 20 weeks. It is a living little human being that has to be killed. The killing is done in ways which are illegal in animal slaughter houses. I shall spare honourable members the details. 
Every responsible honourable member in the House knows that this country needs population. Even honourable members opposite such as the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  have criticised the fallacies of zero population growth. It is ridiculous, almost to the point of suicidal folly, for us to be thinking in terms of immigration programs when we are literally paying abortionists to slaughter potential population. There is a demand for abortions coming from the community, not only from women but also from men. To my mind, this is a sad and terrible aberration of the times. I can only hope and pray that we will recover our senses before it is too late and that our men and women eventually will realise the dignity and precious value of every human life. I hope that every honourable member in the House wil become aware of the situation and will do what he can to stop this dreadful traffic. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I had intended to speak on another matter, but I must associate our side of the House with the expressions of condolence by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  who was supported by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  with respect to the late former  Senator Cant.  As a Western Australian, I knew Hartley Cant. Our roles were different. We rarely agreed but we did find some agreement about some things. In fact I recollectthis is probably the wrong time to mention itthat he told me the funniest story that I have ever heard in my life. For that I will remember him. All I can do is to endorse the words of the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  as reported in  Hansard  at page 1 72 on Tuesday last when speaking of the late former  Senator Armstrong,  and wish a happy repose to the soul of Hartley Cant. 
-Thank you for calling me,  Mr Speaker.  I caught your eye and I am grateful for that. Something caught my eye yesterday afternoon. About a month ago I was privileged to be present when the Lithuanian immigrants of Western Australia, now Australian citizens, observed their national day on Sunday, 20 February. This day commemorates their independence which was achieved on 16 February 1918 when Lithuanian freedom fighters, after the First World War, declared their independence. The independence was recognised by all nations including Bolshevik Russia. Of course, Russia was then too weak to do anything else. It knew very well that Lithuania had been a free and independent nation for many centuries; in fact, as far back as the Roman Empire. Almost every historian knows that the Lithuanian peace, called in Latin the  Pax Lithana.  ruled central Europe for 300 years, starting in 1200. Even the princes of Moscow paid tributes to the Lithuanian states and the Ukraine at that stage was an integral part of Lithuania. 
The Lithuanians were a peace loving people. For that reason, as always, they became disunited in the sixteenth century. Internal jealousies among the Lithuanian and Polish princes caused the neglect of defence and foreign policies. Eventually there was a partition by Prussia, Austria and Russia which unfortunately left Lithuania under Russian domination. Poland, separated from Lithuania, was under 
Prussian and Austrian domination and was treated rather better than the Lithuanians were under Russia. It was a capital offence to speak the native language and people were imprisoned and even deported for doing so. 
The independence of Lithuania lasted only 22 years until 1941 when Hitler and Stalin agreed to partition Poland and Lithuania. Later they fought each other in the middle of Lithuania, reducing it to cinders. England and France had solemnly pledged that Poland and the Baltic states would be free after the Second World War- so much for political promises. We all know now what the situation is in eastern Europe. Lithuania, owing to weakness in leadership in the west at that time has, of course, been incorporated into the Russian empire. At the moment there exists quite inhuman persecution of the Lithuanian people. It seems that the free world, of which we are part, knows little and cares even less. That is one of the reasons why the Lithuanians in exile try to be united and try to keep their spirit of freedom alive throughout free nations. There are more than a millian Lithuanians in the United States of America. They have a reasonable diet of freedom. They have their own daily Press and they are perhaps the best politically informed people in the world. 
In Australia Lithuanians say to each other, and they say it to all other Australians, that Lithuanians do not sleep but they watch every political development because, having already suffered the dreadful deprivation of their own country, they do not want it to happen here. They say to each other on their national day that those who do not love their country- they talk in this case about Australia- have lost their human dignity. They try as hard as they can, wherever they are in the world, to draw attention to the plight of their enslaved brethren who are still under Russian domination. They make representations to every member of Federal Parliament. Some respond positively and some do not. I suppose representatives of all the conquered countries have their problems and all of them from time to time approach us and draw attention to the plight of the people still in those countries. On this occasion I wanted to say something about the Lithuanians because sometimes their particular problems become completely submerged in the problems of other people who are under Russian domination. It is my pleasure to have commemorated their national day with them. I hope to do it very often with them in the future and to draw the House's attention to the problems of all of the people who now exist in slavery behind the Iron Curtain. 
I draw attention to a situation which has arisen over the last few weeks at the University of Western Australia. 
No, he did not write this one. On Orientation Day this year the University Liberal Club distributed mildly satirical material against the left wing groups on campus. By any standard it was jocular compared with the often extreme and sometimes obscene views and abuse that the Left has been publishing at the University for years about all sorts of people, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Speaker  and even including myself. I have never worried about what members of the Left say about me, as I do not worry about what the Opposition says about me either. However, I am concerned at the reaction of a group of left wing academics who, in conjunction with off campus political groups, has seized the occasion as an excuse publicly to intimidate- I believe to try eventually to destroythe University Liberal Club. This left wing bunch of weirdos is comprised of almost professional signers of anti-government proclamations, but this time they have gone beyond the joke they normally are. Ours is supposed to be a free society, and freedom of speech and association should be two of our most precious liberties. These left wing academics, giving prominence to their academic positions, have signed a newspaper advertisement in company with such pro-terrorist groups as the Friends of Palestine and the Friends of East Timor as well as the Communist Club and the State Secretary of the Australian Labor Party. The advertisement demands the silencing of the Liberal Club. It appeared in the  West Australian  on 10 March and was clearly an attempt to intimidate all Liberal students. 
I shall put some ginger in it for the honourable member for Perth before I am through. The advertisement and its implications are pure ideological bullying. Already one Liberal girl has been terrorised into changing her tutorial group at the university because her tutor signed this hysterical and politically motivated advertisement. Another student was publicly abused by a left wing tutor at a tutorial for being a Liberal supporter. There is no objection to academics taking a practical interest in politics or supporting any party, but when they deliberately set out to synonomise their function as academics with their function as political operatives - 
Do you know the meaning of it? Whatever party they belong to it is time the Government looked to safeguarding the ordinary rights of students to hold political opinions of their own without fear of discrimination at the academic level. It takes an inordinate amount of courage for a young student, especially one new to university life, to argue for a viewpoint when half the department in which he or she is studying has publicly declared that such a viewpoint has no right to exist on campus. Who can blame students for adopting cynical attitudes towards their quest for truth when morally bullying tactics are employed by a collective of academic thugs who use their status and the status of the learned institution as an  imprimatur  for their own personal political prejudices. Academics should never be able to bully defenceless students who, rightly or wrongly, believe they will be victimised unless they recant or keep quiet. I believe it is time that this situation at the University of Western Australia was brought to light. I ask the Government to move to protect the basic liberty and human rights of these students who are undoubtedly being intimated and to ensure that they are not discriminated against. 
All democrats in this House- I think there are one or two on the other side as well- should be prepared to stand up for the basic democratic principle of freedom of association which is under attack by this left wing group of academics and their associates. This really does not have anything to do with the present disabilities and disagreements which some of the Liberal students at the University of Western Australia have with the Australian Union of Students. We are not wishing to confuse the issues. They do have a problem with the AUS but this has nothing to do with the matter I raise. It is a problem of the attack on individual liberties of fledgling students at the university by academics whose standards ought to be better and purer than they are. I hope that everybody in this House, having listened, will give sympathy to this problem and do what they can on both sides. Whatever influence people on the other side have with their Labor Party people in Western Australia they should be able to exert that influence to see that this situation is rectified. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Will the Federal Government approach the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, and if so when, to try to preserve the wage-price halt agreed to last week by the heads of government and rejected yesterday by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and other official union bodies? 
I support the Bills before the House. I also support the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and others who have similar points of view. I very much regret that I cannot entirely agree with what the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  has said in regard to certain of these aspects. I do understand his point of view. I should say at the outset that sometimes there seems to be an implication in what the honourable member and various other honourable members have said that the honourable member for Wakefield and the other honourable members who support his point of view are entirely without compassion and entirely without feeling for the people who work in those manufacturing industries which are protected. Some of those industries are highly protected by tariff and are also paid bounties. I do not believe that this is true. I do not believe that the honourable member for Wakefield or anybody else in this chamber lack compassion for the people who have difficulty. In fact, I think the situation is very much the opposite. 
Some philosophical principles are involved in these debates as they are in any debates that are concerned with tariff protection, bounty and matters of like nature. When we think of what the honourable member for Brisbane and other speakers have said, certainly the Bills are important, but the reasons for which they are important are the reasons about which we disagree. Bounty and tariff Bills always present an opportunity for those of us who have philosophical convictions about them to say a few words on how we feel about those convictions. My own convictions are that I tend fairly strongly to lean towards a free trade position generally. I find tariff protection in particular bad. I am prepared to accept bounties and in this case, of course, I support the Government because I certainly see the bounty as having far less impact than tariff protection. 
I think it is important that we should be able to say how we feel about these things. Certainly for years outside this Parliament I have heard the honourable member for Wakefield putting his point of view and not getting a great deal of support for it. I think that the honourable member's point of view is that he wants tariff protection reduced. He is a practical man. He has been around this place for a long time. Those who support him have been here a lot longer than I have. I feel that they do not want to destroy industries overnight. I do not think that that has ever been their point of view. It is a matter of gradualism. I think it is fair and truthful to say that the system of bounty and tariff protection has been in existence as a weapon of government policy for much longer than I have been alive. I do not know whether it has been in operation for as long as the honourable member for Wakefield has been alive. But because he is so fit and runs around the tennis court, I do not know that anybody would know what his age is. However, this benevolent government interference in free trade has certainly been around longer than I have been alive. If that is the case, obviously that protection cannot be cut out overnight, certainly not without disastrous consequences. Some of those consequence have been alluded to by the honourable member for Brisbane and others on previous occasions. What I wish to speak more particularly to is the problem that bounties and tariff protection present to States such as my own State of Western Australia. We in Western Australia have the problem of distance to overcome. It is rather interesting to hear the arguments of manufacturers when they ask for larger and larger bounties and higher and higher tariff protection. They say as part of their argument that the transport costs from this side of the continent to Western Australia are such that they find it difficult to compete with overseas products in the Western Australian market. This is an argument that they have used for a long time. 
What is the real position? Manufacturers on this side of the continent obtain high protection partly as a result of the freight charged on the transportation of their products to Western Australia. This enables them to blossom on this side of the continent, whereas we in the west finish up paying the high prices that they can charge partly because they have used us as a convenient excuse. The further twists in this story are almost ironic. Periodically there are complaints by our manufacturers in the west- we do have a few over there- that their eastern competitors dump surplus production in our State. Who is going to protect us from the protected? 
I hope honourable members are enjoying it. I hope no one thinks that it is a secession speech. This is, of course, the wrong place to make it. But they are some of the arguments that have been advanced for years by those who believe in secession. The last one is a fairly unanswerable argument. It has its humorous implications, of course. Anyway, we all know that the manufacture of highly protected, high tariff or bounty paid goods is between 5 and 7 times more important to people in the eastern States than it is to us in the west. The position is that the highly protected industries on this side of the continent will, for the most part, keep going and that we in the west will, for the most part, keep paying for their products. I think the reasons are obvious. Honourable members have probably heard the argument all before from the honourable member for Wakefield. He says that finally somebody must pay and it is always the exporter. Western Australia is an exporting State. 
I am reminded of what happened not so long ago when the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  and I were having some discussions with State members of Parliament. If any of them are listening it may do them some good to learn that the honourable member for Moore has always put a strong case in this place- he has been doing so since I have been a member of this House, anyway- in respect of Western Australia being an exporting State. I think the greatest argument that could be advanced by those in Western Australia who believe in State rights is the fact that Western Australia has to take loads and loads of highly protected goods- bounty paid goods- from this side of the continent and at the same time has to compete with its minerals and rural products on world markets in relation to which Western Australia gets no protection at all. No bounty is paid and no encouragement is given. I think this is one of the peculiarities and the difficulties of Federation. It certainly has been from our point of view since 1 90 1 . 
In any case, I have said about the honourable member for Moore that he is continually pointing out this argument or variations of it in this House. There are some people in the State Parliament in Western Australia who are always standing up for State rights and who never hesitate to lecture their Federal representatives whenever they get the chance to do so about the importance of State rights, but I have never heard one of them stand up in recent years and speak about the importance of the matters to which I have been alluding. I say to them, to the country and to anyone else who is listening that the honourable member for Moore certainly has done so and I am pleased to be associated with him in that regard. 
The highly protected industries on this side of the continent are geared to supply the Australian market. They are not geared to export. They have located themselves where the large population centres are to be found, which is understandable. That means that they have located themselves on this side of the continent. On the other hand, it seems to be Western Australia's future at the moment to be a quarry and a rural hinterland of this country. It seems to me that the final resolution of the argument between bounties, free trade and tariff protection will be resolved only when the manufacturing industries in this country are capable of exporting their manufactured goods to whatever markets they can find overseas without one scrap of bounty or government encouragement. Looking at the position in 1977- it started a long time ago- it seems to me that a fundamental mistake was made in the extent of the bounty, of the tariff protection, that was offered to Australian industry. All the classic arguments are to be found in all the economic treatises that have been written about the Australian economy, but it seems to me from this point of view that a fundamental mistake was made in the extent of the bounty paid and of the tariff protection and the like. I believe that the matter will be resolved only when the manufacturing industries of this country are able to stand on their own 2 feet without any sort of government protection. That may be a long time coming. From now until then we will have before us Bills of this nature. If they are doing anything towards reducing the moneys that are being paid out, and it seems to me that they are, I will support them. They will be the cause of reducing economic dislocation from time to time. I support the Bills on that basis. 
My question, which  I  direct to the Treasurer, follows the question asked of the Minister for Defence by the honourable member for Higgins. Will the Treasurer demonstrate to the House that he is a true patriot by giving the House a firm assurance that he will support completely the efforts of the Minister for Defence in the next Budget? 
-When people appear on television they must expect some feedback or public reaction, not all of it necessarily complimentary. This was the case with the  Four Corners  program on Australians refusing to have children, which to me was both sad and disgusting, not because it dealt explicitly with vasectomy and abortion but because it exposed to public view a sordid side of our society that we usually conceal with glamour and euphemisms. Quite unforgettable was the young single girl aged 22 or 23, determined on her own selffulfilment, who had been sterilised at her own request because she had already had one abortion and that was enough. Unforgettable was the tragedy of the older woman having her baby killed as she talked to a reporter. She knew all the plausible cliches about her strong maternal instinct being just a matter of pesky hormones. But now that strong instinct was violated as her baby was destroyed and her motives were examined before the watching public. The set-up was tasteless but infinitely worse was the unspeakably sad way that she turned her head away from the camera and shut her eyes in poignant distress as the moment arrived and the living baby was withdrawn from her body by what is euphemistically called vacuum aspiration. I hope I do not upset honourable members too much but these are just nice words which mean 'in pieces'. Unforgettable, too, was the face of the counsellor with her- a counsellor who had tried to teach her to suppress her maternal instincts under the pragmatic convenience of the abortion. Why, in heaven's name, if anyone has time and skill to counsel women, can they not counsel them to accept their babies instead of the dreadful negation of killing them? After seeing that, who could suggest abortion as a human, compassionate solution to anything. 
Sad and somehow disgusting was the vasectomy, not because of its determined exposure of male genitalia, but because of the attitude of the patient. As the television audience watched, his male reproductive capabilities were destroyed, incidentally by a woman doctor. The psychologists may find that interesting. He comforted himself with the somehow pathetic assurance that a gelded stallion could still get after the mares. There was no word of the dignity of manhood, his priceless capacity to father children for our next generation- just a gelded horse. But most heartbreaking was the exposure of the deepseated, thoughtless selfishness of so many of us. We are all selfish. It seems a necessary part, particularly in this place, of self-preservation. But there is a point at which it becomes a fetish. It is a fetish when it results in the killing of unborn babies and it is wholly destructive. I refer particularly to how unfortunate it is in the young people who enjoy a sex life but refuse to have children. In their case it shows that they are at least immature and thoughtless. They forget that one day they will be old and sick or both. They will demand pensions and medical care as their right because of their contributions during their working years, and properly so. But they have made no contribution in people to build the security of a continuing generation to pay and provide for them. 
-There are only very few of them. I return to what I was saying: Who will pay the taxes to pay for their pensions and to provide the goods and services, the nursing care and the doctors they will need? Who will defend them if this country ever has to fight for survival? 
People who consciously refuse to have children will have to depend on the children of others, including the grandchild of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  They will have to depend on the children of those generous hearted enough to take up the loving, necessary burdens and joys of children. The point is that we must have both. We must have the contribution in money and we must have the contribution in people. One is useless without the other. Each generation interlocks with the ones before and after. If one generation breaks the continuing cycle of life, reproduction and death, that generation and all that follow are affected. If anything destroys this country it will be too much emphasis on this demand for selffulfilment, self-revelation, self-awareness and self-satisfaction. It destroys self-sacrifice and self-discipline. In the end it destroys real love and replaces it with a sterile gratification. Selfishness lies even at the root of inflation for it breeds a grab mentality and oppressive materialism. If the  Four Corners  program did nothing more than expose this cult of the self for the corrosive thing that it is, it was worthwhile. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and in some respects follows the question asked by the honourable member for Paterson. Has there been any increase in the volume of protest mail received by the Minister about some Australian Broadcasting Commission programs? Has the Minister had complaints about bias and filth on programs like  Broadband  and  Coming Out,  a radio program on Saturday afternoons which apparently is prepared especially for children, and also some television programs? Will the Minister give the House some indication of the volume of these complaints? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I have only one thing to say about uranium and that is: Dig it up and sell it as soon as possible. I will give my reasons for saying that but before I do I must say that the Opposition today has made one of the most puerile contributions to this debate that I have ever heard. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  offered only one assertion, that is, that Labor had led the field in the marketing and safeguarding of uranium. That is absolute nonsense. What it did was lead the retreat from responsibility and that is the truth which everyone in this House knows. The Opposition held up uranium mining for no real purpose at all. During Labor's last 2 years in office, when it could have been doing something about it, it did nothing. It had the opportunity but the Lefties, as always, had Labor very solidly by the important parts and it was tied up. They tied up the Labor Government so much that nothing happened and we are hundreds of millions of dollars down the drain. The Australian economy has lost hundreds of millions of dollars due to this delay. 
The Opposition when in Government was able to find a lifebelt in the Fox inquiry to stop a row within its own Party about the marketing of uranium. That was another $5m or so down the drain and further delay. In 1975 we came into office and found ourselves faced with the difficulties of the Fox inquiry but we were prepared to go on with it. I have seen one or two disrespectful accounts of the Fox inquiry and one of them seems to sum up the 2 volumes of the Fox report in one simple sentence: Your attitude to uranium mining depends on what sort of person you are. I think that is a fair comment on the whole report. Certainly the report went into a lot of detail, technicalities and so on, but I do not think it has really advanced the argument on whether or not we should dig up and sell uranium any further than if it had never been published. 
In any case, the Fox inquiry does not seem to have found any real reason why we should not go on with uranium mining and I think that the Opposition is really wasting its time trying to hold up the exercise. Certainly there has been a hue and cry in the community, largely started by the same gang of pro-communist agitators who are doing a splendid job of wrecking the trade union movement and trying while they are at it to destroy this country. Unfortunately, and this always happens, good people are fooled and drawn in. That sort of thing has happened many times before. We can all recollect the story of Chicken Little who panicked the whole farmyard by crying that the sky was falling. That is the sort of thing to which the Opposition has been contributing. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  in his contribution cried Jonah and cried that the sky was falling. 
On this side of the House we know that it hardly seems possible that the honourable member for Blaxland, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  can agree with the extremist views of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  The first 3 honourable - members to whom I referred went to Japan and saw there the need of the Japanese people to acquire uranium in order to provide necessary power. They know that in Japan at least there are no fundamental objections. I am quite certain that they feel, as we do, that the best thing we can do is dig it up and sell it. The only difference between those members I mentioned, and I will include the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  because I think he has a lot of commonsense on this matter, and us is not in relation to digging it up and selling it but that the Opposition would like the Government to do the digging and selling. That is really the only fundamental difference between us. We saw this sort of dichotomy in the Opposition earlier this week but I suppose that on the final day of our proceedings the less said about that the better. 
There is a whole range of argument in favour of nuclear energy but that is not the real nub of today's debate. It is relevant, certainly, and I will come back to it a little later on. The fundamental point today is whether we should dig and sell uranium. No essential argument against this has been advanced in either of the Fox reports. Certainly no argument against it has been advanced today by the Opposition. As I said before, the only difference between us is in who should dig and sell uranium. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has advanced strict- perhaps too strict- safeguards for the export of uranium, so there is no need to hesitate on the digging and selling. Let us get on with it. It is in our interests to do so. 
At the moment we share a method to feed nuclear reactors at least until the next ice age; that is, to use a new and very abundant fuel, abundant throughout the world and in Australia. That fuel is thorium, an element somewhat lighter than uranium. Unfortunately, thorium alone will not do. Uranium is needed to prime the pump and start the process. Australia has 2 1 per cent of the world's proven uranium reserves and probably a lot more than that. Prospectors are not going to say anything about the areas they have marked out for fear of difficulties with either State or Federal governments. They want the whole market situation to be made clear before they come forward and so the reserves are probably greater than we thought. In any case, a few decades from now nobody will need uranium because we will be using thorium reactors. But for the next 2 or 3 decades uranium can and will save people from starvation which would otherwise be inevitable. 
That is the basic argument for digging and selling uranium, I suppose, but part of today's debate certainly involves arguments for and against nuclear power. As far as I am concerned, there are no moral arguments against uranium, just as there are no moral arguments against coal, electricity or rubber. It is hard enough today to live by the 10 commandments without inventing a few more. There are very good arguments for nuclear development and I think that some of the referendums in the United States have made clear that the people there are not the slightest bit concerned. A couple of weeks ago, Jimmy Carter addressed the United States Congress and said something of great importance. He said that the energy crisis was the greatest crisis in the history of the United States, short of the crisis of war. He said that the United States had been hurt by the crisis and that Japan was in even worse straits. The real sufferers, however, are the inhabitants of the under-developed countries. Three billion out of four billion people who live on this planet live in abject poverty. Without energy they cannot pump water, they cannot irrigate their fields, they cannot even obtain energy rich fertilisers. Sooner or later- and it might be sooner- they face starvation. The use of nuclear energy in the developed countries could indirectly help the developing countries, principally by increasing the amount of oil available for their use. Oil is needed for the small machinery which is of vital necessity in the poor countries. 
The richer countries, the developed countries, could and should first of all use less energy.  President  Carter absolutely outlined that the first emphasis of the United States must be on economising on energy as well as using more effective ways to employ it. But he then said, after paying due respect to the need for using a lot of coal, that they could not solve the problem without using nuclear reactors. So the very person the Opposition has been quoting with some approval this afternoon has made it quite plain that nuclear reactors are necessary to solve the energy problem. He wants to reduce the period of licensing in the United States of America from 10 years to 3 years because the energy is needed now. By the deployment of nuclear reactors, 16 million barrels of oil a day could be saved. This represents more than one-third of the production of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. If this can be done and if nuclear reactors can be used as part of a means to provide energy, oil prices might no longer rise. They might even fall. The world has become very small. The industrial revolution is spreading over the face of the earth. The first desirable effect is the saving of lives everywhere. This has given rise to a population explosion; so much so that it is now a certainty that in the year 2000 there will be at least 7 billion souls on this globe, provided they do not starve to death first. They do not need to starve to death if we can help to solve the energy problem by the export of our uranium. 
I want to say a few words about objections to nuclear power. All the answers to any objections I have ever seen are in a book which is available in the Parliamentary Library. It is called  The Health Hazards of Not Going Nuclear  and is written by Professor Beckman. I recommend it to those Opposition members who are genuinely interested in some arguments for nuclear power, instead of promoting the sort of literature that they seem to be quoting constantly against nuclear power. 
The honourable member can make his own judgment about that. Professor Beckman has answered most of the objections that have been put forward by the Friends of the Earth and others. He says that uranium is much safer than hydro-electric power because the collapse of dams in various parts of the world has killed thousands. Big industrial nuclear reactors, of which there are more than 60 in the United States today, have not harmed a single person. Nuclear reactors are cleaner and safer than coal. Many people have been killed in mine accidents throughout the world, including here in Australia. The point was made earlier by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in regard to the pollution produced by the burning of coal. It has hurt perhaps even a greater number of people. Nuclear reactors are safe when properly controlled and at least in the United States they are safe. I concede to the Friends of the Earth their right to speak up for a pure environment. I sometimes wonder about methods they use but no one can deny them their right to speak up if they feel there is some difficulties we are not handling properly. They really should support nuclear reactors if they are genuine in their desire to cut down pollution because they are the cleanest method of producing electricity. 
Many more objections have been raised, some of them by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  and some by other honourable members. If they are really interested in the subject, I offer them the challenge to read this work which contains, I think, all of the answers for which they would be looking. It would be quite unfair and improper of me before sitting down not to pay some sort of a tribute to  Dr Edward  Teller who has had such a great deal to do with the development of nuclear energy since its inception. He, too, has had his moral qualms. Honourable members might recollect that many years ago there was a tremendous nuclear debate in the United States. It was exactly the same sort of debate that we seem to be having in this country in the last couple of years. The only difference is that the American debate took place about 27 years ago. To be completely candid, this is why I am so appalled that we have had to go on with the exercise of the Fox report. All of this work has been done before. It has been done very effectively and very thoroughly. For some reason that is peculiar to Australians, we want to go over the whole trauma and the whole exercise again and therefore waste millions of dollars and cause further delay. 
In any case,  Dr Teller  was retained by the American Government to give a professional opinion as to whether it ought to pursue nuclear energy in depth. After examining everythingincluding all the material covered in the Fox report-all those years ago, he gave what I believe to be and what I think time has shown to be the correct advice to the American Government. I think all of us, particularly those of us in what we call the anti-communist world, have reason to be grateful to  Dr Teller.  Apart from the enormous industrial development and the enormous benefits that civilisation has gained from nuclear power, there is no question that the United States has done the job in preserving the balance of nuclear power in war-like terms. It has done so because it was given good advice by  Dr Teller. Dr Teller  at least is honest enough to admit that nobody can answer finally all of the conundrums on any new system of power. 
Perhaps the words of  Dr Teller  provide a good note upon which to conclude my speech. Recently he addressed the National Press Club in a humble, genuine and sincere way. He concluded with what he called a purely personal reminiscence from his early childhood. He talked about a number of children- he says that we are all children- who escaped and went out to see the world. They came to the crossroads and found a sign. On one side it said: 'This leads to nowhere'. On the other side it said: 'This leads to everywhere'. He says that the children chose the latter course. They got into a lot of trouble but they got home. I think that is the message for us today. We begin this long track of going somewhere by digging up our uranium and selling it for the benefit of Australia and for the benefit of the underprivileged people of this world. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I speak tonight on behalf of five students from the University of Western Australia who were recently charged and found guilty of certain offences under the University's Discipline Statute. I am interested in their case because I have in the past shown support for students oppressed by leftwing university authorities. Basically the students claim that the University is indulging in intimidation of conservative students by selectively enforcing the University Discipline Statute against students known to be conservative. Four of the five students in question are members of the University Liberal Club. They were picked from a crowd of some 40 to SO persons having a peaceful demonstration and reported to the University by some cranky feminists. The University, acting on nothing but the testimony of these feminists, several of whom admitted at the hearing to be biased against the accused students, laid charges of misconduct. The students were charged with multiple offences ranging from assault to wilful damage. They were cleared of all specific offences alleged but were still found guilty of the general offence of misconduct of which the University refused to give details. That was a wonderful judgment, a wonderful judgment indeed. They were convicted on the basis of a frame of mind- shades of my old friend Joe Chamberlain. He convicted some people on the basis of a frame of mind some 22 years ago and I think I might have been one of them. 
The facts of this matter are as follows: No inquiry was held by the University and the charges were laid by a handful of sworn political adversaries. This was considered to be sufficient evidence. After the Murdoch University incident of a week ago when the Premier of Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court, was almost pushed through a plate glass window, an inquiry was held to determine objectively whether anything warranting a charge had taken place at that university. The students to whom I am referring were given the benefit of no such independent inquiry and I think this is a particularly dangerous precedent. Previous demonstrations at the Western Australian campus have never been the subject of disciplinary charges even though many of them have been of a particularly violent nature. This particular demonstration, probably the first on campus by conservative students, was very mild and many witnesses, including many women, testified to this at the hearing. 
One demonstration last year directed at the University Liberal Club was violent in the extreme yet no charges were laid against the leftists involved. Members of the Club were locked in a room with the guest  speaker,  a Federal Minister,  Mr Viner,  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Abuse and obscenities were rife and when the Minister was finally extricated a bodyguard was required to see him to his car. Members of the conservative University Liberal Club were kicked and punched and crockery was thrown at  Mr Viner  but no charges were laid. 
The recent hearing was told of much damage done to University and Guild property by the women. For example, a large section of stonework in the adjacent car park had to be repaired and resurfaced after a huge women's slogan had been painted there that night. No charges or inquiry emanated from this act. The toilets, male and female, were extensively defaced with slogans on feminism. The cost to repair them was substantial. The men's toilet was the worst. Several large anti-male slogans were gouged into the plaster. This sounds very much like the gang that defaced this place a few years ago. No charges were laid and no inquiry was held into this damage, albeit extensive, to which the women admitted. 
It seems strange that the persons charged were those who were playing a very minor role in the whole proceedings- virtually just looking on. Perhaps this is more readily explained in terms of the  New Libido  incident earlier this year, which I have spoken about before in this place. Three of those charged wrote articles for the magazine to which both the women and the University authorities took exception. Why is it that left wing trendies are allowed, even encouraged, to hold violent demonstrations; yet any sign of opposition or publicity of a more conservative opinion on campus is fraught with serious repercussions. It is getting to the stage where members of the Liberal Club cannot take a public stand on any issue without the fear of serious reprisals from either the Guild or the University. The question that occurs to me is: If the University is not being pressured by left wing trendies into selective enforcement of its rules, who is pressuring it? It seems to me also that this offence might be something else that could be laid at the feet of the Australian Union of Students, which could not conduct a duck raffle in a pub without welshing. 
-The Prime Minister will be aware of the violence which has just recently attached to the export of uranium. Will the Government allow violence to deter it from its policy to export uranium? 
-How delighful it is to follow the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  in the debate. I totally and unequivocally support the Government's decision to allow private enterprise to mine and export uranium. We are approaching the end of what has been really a long and in some respects, if I take into consideration the contribution of the last  speaker,  a tedious and exhaustive debate in this House. I must say that the debate has had no real influence on my state of mind. I made up my mind on this matter more than 20 years ago. That was about the time of the great TellerOppenheimer debate in the United States. Those two great nuclear physicists who held opposing points of view debated publicly much the same matter as we are now discussing. Needless to say, Teller convinced me then, and he convinces me now, of the absolute necessity to develop nuclear power as a help to mankind in its ceaseless struggle against nature. 
Oppenheimer took a view similar to that of the Opposition. In other words, do nothing; it is unsafe; we do not know anything about it, and so on. Who was right? My opinion is that Teller was right. Teller was right; of course he was. The last 20 years of safety in the nuclear industry show the enormous benefits that nuclear power has been able to bring, and they show also why it is that nuclear power needs our uranium. 
I want to be quite candid on this particular matter. Much has been said by many speakers over the last couple of days in this debate. I thought initially that the Government of which I am a supporter was mistaken in going on with the Fox Commission. However, we made the decision when we came into office to go on with it. As far as I was concerned there was no real need for it. Nuclear energy was well enough proven everywhere else and it seemed to me that we were wasting a lot of time in going on with the inquiry. However, now Fox has finished his deliberations and he has produced very good arguments for our going ahead. It seems to me that those arguments are not really original when we consider what has been available for the last 20 years. Anyway, I am glad that Fox has reinforced the basic principle that uranium should be mined and should be sold and exported. I am less happy with the enormous restrictions on mining and export. The companies concerned seem happy enough with that; they are happy enough just to get the go ahead. 
I think I should say a few words on some of the recent contributions of other honourable members in this debate. I shall comment on the ones that I have heard, anyway. I refer in the first instance particularly to the contribution of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  He believes that there is a comparison to be made between this debate on uranium and the debate on the Vietnam War. It is quite obvious where he sees the comparison. He believes that the same mob rule and violence which caused so much upset some time ago is going to force the Government to change its mind. I hope that the honourable member for Burke, every other honourable member in this House and everybody in the country heard what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said at question time today. I asked him a question about this particular matter. He was quite unequivocal in his reply: Violence is not going to worry this Government one iota. We are going on with the job. We have got to do it. We have made the decision and we are going to proceed with it. The mobs that are stirred up by people like the honourable member for Burke will not change the mind of the Government. 
Then we had the contribution of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  He seems sincerely to hold the belief that the earth is flat. Almost every exaggerated, panic stricken supposition of the Friends of the Earth and the Australian Conservation Foundation about radon gas and other things was adverted to by the honourable member. He comes from a mining community. He dug up these things and I think the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  who followed him was able nicely to put away again most of them. 
The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  who I thought I would be following in the debate immediately after the dinner break, advocated a moratorium also. He did so on the sort of ideas expressed by the honourable member for Burke. He wants a moratorium for one reason, and that is so that the street mobs can get into the act and try to influence government policy. The same comment can be applied, I suppose, to the remarks of the honourable member for Melbourne. He said one or two other things to which I will come in a minute. I think it is important to dispose of those charges and misconceptions uttered by honourable members from the Opposition who spoke previously. It seems to me that they are well disposed of if I read from the report of the fastidious Fox. I think he is able to show us how to jump over the opposition. On mining and milling he says in his report: 
The hazards of mining and milling uranium, if those activities are properly regulated and controlled, are not such as to justify a decision not to develop Australian uranium mines. 
That is quite fundamental. On conversion, enrichment and fabrication, he said much the same thing: 
Hazards to members of the public and the general environment arise at all stages of the nuclear fuel cycle. 
They do in most other fuel cycles also. He went on to say: 
However, few problems seem likely to arise from conversion, enrichment or fuel fabrication plants. 
On reactor safety, he said: 
The conclusion with regard to thermal reactors is that there is a very small but finite probability of a serious accident with release of highly dangerous radioactive material.  1 repeat the words 'small but finite probability'. It is infinitesimal. 
I am always delighted to respond to the honourable member for Melbourne. On radioactive waste disposal he said: 
While we do not think that the waste situation is at present such as to justify Australia wholly refusing to export uranium, it is plain that the situation demands careful watching, and, depending on developments, regular and frequent assessment. 
On terrorism, he said: 
We do not believe that this risk alone constitutes a sufficient reason for Australia declining to supply uranium. It does however provide a further reason why the export of our uranium including what is proposed to be done with it, and where, are matters which the Government should keep under constant scrutiny and control. 
On nuclear weapons proliferation, he said much the same thing:  ... a total renunciation of intention to supply designed to bring an end to all nuclear power industries or all further development of them would in our view be likely to fail totally in its purpose, if the purpose were simply to draw international attention to the dangers of and associated with the industry, that purpose might be achieved, but it is most unlikely that any worthwhile action would result. 
We are of the view that total renunciation of intention to supply is undesirable. 
Those words were written by a man who was appointed originally by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  to produce a report. What I have read are extracts from his report which I think give the answers, if not the direct lie, to everything that has been asserted right through the long course of this debate. So it is clear to me that the man who was appointed by the present Opposition to do a job has done that job satisfactorily. Whether I approved of that appointment originally does not matter. He has done that job and his conclusions support the Government's decision. 
How does the sort of nonsense that our friends of the Opposition go on with help this debate? If honourable members opposite hold their convictions sincerely, nothing will ever be possible in this country. Nothing will be tried. There will be no progress at all. We will ignore developments that occur in the world and Australia will become a turgid backwater. I am sure that that proposition worries some sensible people opposite. They can see that we cannot fly in the face of progress, that what we propose is necessary. I could be wrong about this, but I feel that many honourable members opposite do not really support the policy adopted by their party on this particular matter. The electorate feels the same way. The electorate is worried also about the way in which the Labor Party is conducting its affairs. That is why it is in opposition. 
The majority of Australian people have consistently supported the mining and export of uranium. They will support the Government in its decision. They know that the Government has bent over backwards to provide the public with maximum information and to allow maximum debate. I would like Opposition members to listen very carefully to this. All sections of the media have been running uranium stories for months and months. There have been special television programs and talkback shows on the topic. News people to whom I have spoken have said that they are heartily sick of the word 'uranium'. Honourable members opposite keep saying that there has not been enough debate. There have been debates in this House. As I said earlier, the Government went on with the Fox inquiry when it need not have done so. It should not be forgotten that most of the vocal opposition from outside this House has come from radical groups such as the Friends of the Earth and the Australian Conservation Foundation. Who has been funding those organisations? Our own Federal Government has been funding these groups. So how can the Opposition say that we are unfair? The most vocal opposition to uranium mining has come from the radical groups funded by this Government. This Government has bent over backwards to see that there has been a fair, reasonable and continuous debate. How much further are we expected to go? Could anything be fairer than all this public discussion? A decision has been made. It was made, I believe, in the breast of the previous 
Government. Because its members are now out of office they have changed their minds. There is no sensible man amongst them who is against uranium mining. They agree with it. They have much the same views as I have. Those views are quite simply that energy is the keystone of modern civilisation, not only for industrial use and the provision of human comforts but also for the very sustenance of life on this planet. 
People do not seem to realise, particularly people on the other side of the House, that modern agriculture is one of the big energy consumers today. The productivity of our arable land is many times what it used to be. We pour more and more energy into the ground by the use of fertilisers, tractors and other farm equipment. A hundred years ago the major sources of energy were coal and wood with some hydro power. There must have been thinking people then who wondered whether the harnessing of renewable resources such as the sun, the wind and the tides would sustain the world after the non-renewable resources were exhausted. But then came the oil discoveries which must have seemed at that time inexhaustible. The world entered a new phase of euphoria. Today the oil and gas reserves seem only too finite. What there is of them is less available than we have become accustomed to. 
In 1973 there was the oil shock with the world frantically looking to the development of alternative sources of energy to alleviate its dependence on oil and gas. The world must replace oil requirements with nuclear energy and other developments of new alternative fuels. There will be a new energy crisis. With the passing of the recession and a return to economic growth, with people becoming dissatisfied with continuing to accept a lowering of their standards of living and with a few harsh winters we will once again be short of the precious and essential energy commodity. Talking of harsh winters reminds me of what is perhaps the greatest summation of what should happen to the extreme ecologists of this world. I read about it in a newspaper. I do not recollect which one. A reporter said that he had seen on the desk of that great mining industrialist, Lang Hancock, a wellprinted slogan. It said: 'Ecologists- let the bastards freeze in the dark'.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am quoting the slogan. I am not using improper and unparliamentary language. It seemed to me that this slogan summed up a lot of the difficulties we have with extremists. 
Current world energy production is 128 million barrels of oil a day. The 1985 estimate is 200 million barrels a day. This is a staggering amount of new energy. Once again, we will have the problem of it diminishing. If the diminishing of oil resources leads to an energy shortage, obviously in the chain of events nothing will solve our problem, except nuclear energy. Those optimists who talk about solar energy, tidal power and harnessing waves are kidding themselves. It would take a field of approximately 20 square kilometres to produce any sort of energy from the sun at this stage. That is with a massive and sophisticated array of collectors. In all common sense we have no alternative except to turn to nuclear energy. 
There are enormous power stations in every country. Even some of the countries favoured by the honourable member for Melbourne have nuclear energy. I do not know why he is trying to deny us the benefits of it. If the world is to depend on nuclear power stationsthere are enormous increases in these- we are in the market to supply them with the fuel. To do anything else is to be unreasonable and to shut our eyes to what is going on in the world. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Does the Government have any information about the recent announcement that the  President  of the self proclaimed Democratic Republic of East Timor, Francisco Xavier Do Amaral, has been deposed, expelled and imprisoned, together with several colleagues, allegedly for collaboration with Indonesian authorities? Does the Government have any background information about this announcement? Does the incident, if the report is true, reveal what might be happening in the headquarters of Fretilin? Was Do Amaral generally considered to be one of the few non-Marxists in the Fretilin leadership? 
I support the Non-government Schools (Loans Guarantee) Bill. I oppose the proposed amendment. We are not debating the whole ambit of any Schools Commission report or the Karmel report, but I hope,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that later m this debate I will be afforded the same opportunity as other honourable members have had to discuss such matters. 
The purpose of the Bill is to implement a scheme to enable the Commonwealth to act as guarantor for loans raised by non-government schools in the States to finance wholly or partially the construction of approved priority school facilities. In spite of the confusion of the Opposition which is suggesting the exact opposite, the Government has accepted the recommendation of the Schools Commission that a system of loan guarantees be established. In November last year the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  announced this decision and foreshadowed the introduction of the necessary enabling legislation. In partial answer to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  the loan guarantees are important to the non-government schools. The scheme will have considerable benefit for nongovernment schools in that it will allow loans for building projects to a maximum of $ 10m in any one year to be backed by Commonwealth Government guarantees. That is not a bad sort of guarantee for expenditure in one year. 
The scheme will provide much needed support for those schools wishing to raise loans, especially those without institutional backing. In addition, it will permit more favourable borrowing terms to be negotiated. Loan guarantees will also be available for projects which, while approved in principle by the Commonwealth, may not receive a grant. The Bill includes provision for the Commonwealth to recover any cost to it in the event of default. It is not a handout but an encouragement. It will foster increased building activity in non-government schools in the States. It will undoubtedly help the employment situation in those States. I think the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith alluded to this. Unfortunately, a small sectarian conflict has developed. This always happens when Bills of this nature or anything to do with education are foreshadowed. I think the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith also mentioned this. It has developed outside this House. Regretfully, I observed that it has been added to a little by the Opposition in the Senate. I hope that this nonsense which should have no part in our society will be ignored by the Opposition in this House. I think the honourable member for KingsfordSmith has set the stage to ignore it. I commend him for that. 
It seems to me that irrespective of which party has been in power, the non-government sector has been somewhat disadvantaged. The legislation we are contemplating now is a forward step which will help redress the imbalance. There is another important point. It has been suggested that, during the term of the Whitlam Government, the state of non-government schools improved significantly. That is simply not true. The levels of resource use between the two systems actually widened between 1972 and 1975. Non-government schools were operating at a level 28 per cent below that of government schools. This represented a 5 per cent decline on the situation that the now Opposition inherited from us when it assumed government. The Schools Commission reports themselves clearly show this and the Government has kept its promises. 
I want to pay tribute to my esteemed colleague the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who is in the House at the moment who has always fought for education. He has fought hard over many years and so have a lot of other honourable members but I particularly mention the honourable member for Lilley because earlier this year, in March, he asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  with some temerity if I recollect correctly - 
Well the honourable member for Lilley is not frightened of him and there are one or two others on this side who are not frightened of him. In fact I think I could speak for all of us. 
-My colleague the honourable member for Bowman says that he is a fine chap and that we get on marvellously well with him. We will go along with him whatever he does, maybe to the disadvantage of the Opposition. In any case the honourable member for Lilley, in March, asked the Prime Minister for some assurances, assurances which to some people would amount to a statement, that the non-government sector would receive a fair go in the allocation of money for education. Naturally the Prime Minister, being the fair minded and reasonable man that he is, responded in the affirmative. I am glad that the honourable member for Lilley asked that question because it is important that attention should always be drawn to this matter. The continuing disparity between the nongovernment and the government sectors will be a source of difficulty in this House for all governments. I believe it is time an approach was made in order to try to reach full equality. I do not want to have a philosophical argument at the moment about the essential issues and essential differences of government and non-government schools but I think it is perfectly clear to everybody that the contribution to education by the non-government sector over all these years, of favouritism for the free compulsory and secular system, is very significant. 
I wonder whether the Government might have a look at some time early in the future at an idea which is not new but which I belive will usher in an era of true equality. It is called voucher funding. Apart altogether from the state aid issue, voucher funding for schools is gaining wider and wider acceptance on sociological, economic and educational grounds. Schooling has become a social service which the Government has undertaken to provide and each child is personally entitled under our present system to a certain amount each year towards the rising cost of his or her schooling. It is the individual child 's personal need for a suitable education that establishes its right to this money, a right it exercises through its parents or guardians. Parents in turn have the responsibility and right of choosing for their children a school which meets their legitimate preferences. It seems to me when I consider the complications that might arise from this present Bill, which I support, that the simplest way of calculating the amount due to each child would be to make it equal to the actual average cost, whether it be the local, region or State cost, of maintaining a place in a government school. 
In October 1976 a Senate estimates committee established this figure for a secondary school student as being $1,280 and for a primary school student $770. With all the statisticians who are attached now to the Schools Commission, it should be quite easy to establish the figures for the money being spent per student every year. I hope our friends in the corner of the House, the advisers, do not quail at the prospect of more work being loaded onto them but I believe this would be one way to solve this perennial inequality problem. Were this allowance that I am suggesting to be part of a family income it would be taxable and this would ensure provision according to family need which is more equitable than provision according to institutional need. 
One way of paying the allowance would be to issue vouchers to parents at the beginning of each year or term, the vouchers being redeemable at any approved school. The vouchers could be available at schools, to be signed like cheques when parents enrol their children. However, the method we now use would be quite satisfactorygovernment payment to each school or system of a cheque whose amount is determined by the number of children in attendance. The vouchers being uniform for all children taking the same course, and not tied to institutional needs, the process would be even simpler than it is at present. Aid to children at non-government schools may have to be increased step by step over a number of years towards ultimate parity with what government school parents receive. 
It is for actuaries to determine how far the anticipated additional cost of providing equal financial assistance for all children at school would be offset by the tax revenue collected from more affluent parents with children at either government or private schools, all being treated alike. Vouchers normally would cover only recurrent or operational costs whereas at present, according to the Schools Commission report of 1976-77, there are gross inequalities in plant. These could be reduced or removed by special purpose grants like those the Commission already recommends and rather like the capital guarantee that we are at present discussing in this House. All voucher funding systems envisage parents paying the cost of their children's schooling at the school of their choice. The vouchers simply enable all parents to meet these costs or fees up to the level of an equivalent place at a government school. The vital difference between voucher funding and current Australian practice lies in formal recognition at law of the fact that basic aid moneys are due to children or families and not to institutions. Aid to the student, not the school. 
Local experiments will have to be mounted to show which voucher model or models will work best in Australia. A two-year or three-year lead time would eliminate the damages of hasty action, however well intentioned. How often in the last few years have we seen these hasty propping up actions adopted? In some ways they have been to the detriment of the systems involved. Were school funding the responsibility of the Department of Social Security this would free the Department of Education to concentrate on formally educational and pedagogical issues and services. Voucher funding then would seem to be more equitable than the present system and less vulnerable to political interference. By increasing public interest in schooling it would attract to it a larger part of the national income than can be fairly raised by taxation. Vouchers would give government school parents the kind of authority some private school parents now enjoy. Many parents who are now made to feel that they have no say at all in their children's schooling would be encouraged to take a really active interest in it. Those who simply supply schooling would become more sensitive to the wishes of those who consume it, even when there is only one school available to them. 
There are many studies available on what I have been talking about. I mention two in particular, one by E. G. West entitled 'Economics, Education and the Politician' and another by A. Maynard entitled 'Experiment with Choice in Education'. I think both are available in the Parliamentary Library. I am certainly indebted to John W. Doyle who lives in this city for his treatment in a study entitled 'New Schools in a New Society'. 
I commend to the House the Bill that we have been discussing and I also commend the voucher scheme which I think would be a serious and proper step towards solving the perennial inequality between state and non-state systems of education. No community can long remain healthy and productive that does not set great store by the personal dignity, authority and responsibility of all its members. These are basic to freedom, in my judgment. We want to reinvigorate the world we live in and to renew society and I believe that this means putting as much real power as we can into the hands of ordinary people, especially power over their own lives and over the things which concern them most deeply, like education and the family. The provision of vouchers for schools seems to be one of the effective ways of doing it. It may even be, in the long view, that the greatest value of voucher funding lies in the sense of personal responsibility which it restores to parents, teachers and children. In the meantime we are going to have to go on guaranteeing capital for the other schemes that we have in the hope that sooner or later the move to equality which started some considerable time ago will eventually see fruition. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether it is customary before a GovernorGeneral vacates office for the Parliament to be given an opportunity of formally farewelling him and indicating appreciation and esteem? 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

I thought that the question would produce that reaction. Will the Prime Minister ensure that a suitable opportunity is available to farewell  Sir John  and Lady Kerr as I am sure that very many of us here would warmly welcome the opportunity to extend such a formal farewell? 
-What an indictment of the policies of the Australian Labor Party, what an indictment of its attitude to industrial relations when we consider what the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has said. He has encouraged people to stay out on strike. He has encouraged people to defy all lawful authority. He has encouraged people to defy the arbitration system and to stay out on strike. He does not care, and neither does the Labor Party care, if the community is wrecked in the process. The community is comprised of individuals. Its peaceful continuity depends on one thing; it depends on the cooperation that we all are prepared to extend to each other in trying to make the system work. 
It is a great pity that industrial legislation has to be introduced to protect from the guilty those individuals who are innocent of blame for the sort of industrial anarchy that we have at the moment. But we have found it necessary to do that. If we are to maintain co-operation in this community, if we are to save this community from being wrecked by the activities of just a few people- as all honourable members know, it takes only a few power workers, as we have seen in the Latrobe Valley, to tie up almost a whole State- this sort of legislation has to be introduced. What sort of co-operation is that? I believe that the community will be torn apart unless this Government legislates to protect the individuals in it. 
It seems to me that the consumer price index figures which were issued just recently are the greatest encouragement for industry and for the people in this country that we have had for some time. They provide real encouragement for industry to get going again. But how can that happen when we have industrial anarchy and industrial disorder right throughout the community? In that sort of situation how can there be encouragement at all for the economy ever to get off the ground? We are legislating in the interests of industrial peace. We must have legislation to protect the innocent from the guilty. 
Only ten unions are involved in the dispute in the Latrobe Valley. We should look at the untold misery that is being caused to members of all the other unions throughout the State who are being affected by that dispute. It is estimated that something like half a million people in this country today have been stood down because of this one dispute. Yet only 2,000 workers are out on strike. The Labor Party is making no mention of the wages that are being lost due to the effects of this strike. Not a word is being said about the small businesses that are being hurt all over the country. Nothing is being said about all of the ancilliary effects- the misery, hardship and difficulty- imposed because of the utter intransigence of a small group of men. There has never been a situation as bad as this since we have been in government. This situation makes it absolutely necessary for us to produce this legislation. 
In spite of what the honourable member for Hindmarsh has said, I am sure that the Australian people, including most unionists, are sick and tired of a gang of communists- I emphasise that because it is a gang of communists- in the Latrobe Valley who are holding the greater part of this country to ransom in a stupid and, in this case, outrageous manner. The situation has developed into an outright political strike. The people involved are actually defying the governmentsthe Victorian Government and the Federal Government. I am equally sure that the Australian people have also had enough of the Opposition defence of this indefensible situation. 
It is one thing to defend genuine cases of hardship imposed by silly and thoughtless management; it is another thing entirely to defend communists and other social wreckers who have no interest in the real and permanent industrial peace that we need in this country. 
I have been a trade unionist and I know that the real aims of all varieties of communists, whether they be the Moscow variety or the dim sim variety, in the trade unions are to have permanent industrial chaos. It is quite clear that that is their objective in the Latrobe Valley. The people we read about and see on television all the time- people like Sammy Armstrong, Jack Halfpenny and Laurie Carmichael- have organised, guided and directed the whole disaster over the last couple of weeks. A cursory glance at any newspaper or at any television screen will verify that. Unionists have got to ask themselves whether they really want this kind of leadership. The answer would seem to be directly and strongly in the negative- not just in the Latrobe Valley but all over Australia. 
But what can genuine unionists do in the face of persecution, thuggery, extortion and coercionyou name it? That is the sort of difficulty that individual unionists are facing, and that has been the hallmark of communist-controlled unions over the years. Genuine unionists feel powerless to resist the communist machine. There have been many instances of that sort of thing that I can remember over the years, beginning perhaps with the Hurseys a long time ago, where the communist machine has overrun individuals who have stood up against it. Individuals stand up and are run over. As far as I can say and see, this industrial chaos is perhaps just a prelude to political chaos of a worse kind. The only period I can recall when the communists in the trade unions were on the run was in the early 1950s when the Labor Party itself joined in the fight to drive them from the trade unions, the trades hall councils and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. It was the famous period that is now known as the grouper era. There are people on the other side of this House who are inclined to denigrate me and accuse me of being a grouper. It is something of which I am proud, because I know that in those days a unity existed against that communist power. That is the only way in which they will be driven again from the unions. 
I am indebted to the honourable member for Hotham. Not too many people on the Opposition side would commend me for it. The Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 3) which we are debating seeks to protect the rights of unionists who are not able as individuals to fight for themselves. It seeks to protect them from the persecution and the thuggery which we have seen quite obviously in the last year or two. Plenty of time has been allowed for public discussion and scrutiny of this measure. It is nonsense for the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and others to tell us that there has been no time to think about the Bill. It is an insult particularly to the honourable member for Hindmarsh for the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  to suggest, as he did this morning, that the Labor Party needs a good industrial lawyer to look at the Bill. That is what he said when taking a point of order this morning. I do not know how the honourable member for Hindmarsh feels about such an assertion. The truth is that many people in the Opposition know how vitally necessary this Bill is to protect the rights of individuals. But they do not intend to say too much about it publicly. 
I know how the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  who is sitting at the table admires Adam Smith. I thought he would be interested to know that 200 years ago Adam Smith, in his book  The Wealth of Nations,  celebrated the liberation of the working man. If the honourable member for Burke reads that work of Adam Smith he will not find too much with which to disagree. The guild system which rigidly controlled occupational status had crumbled and the laws that backed it were repealed or ignored. Smith rejoiced. To him the right of a man to work where, when and how he wanted was the most important freedom of all. Surely the honourable member for Burke can appreciate that. Adam Smith should in fact be a hero to him and not a villain. Today the freedom that Adam Smith admired and wanted so much is in imminent danger of extinction. 
The Australian worker is being judged not by his skill, training or character but by his status.  His  union membership inhibits his wish to change his trade or his will to remain an individual instead of a unit in an anonymous mass. The right of the individual must be protected; so also must be the right of the decent trade union which tries to secure justice and equity for its members by negotiation, thus preserving industrial peace. The Bill does not upset preference for unionists. I commend the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  for his understanding of this point. The legislation has made clear that the conscientious clause which protects the individual 's right not to be a unionist will not be a refuge for free-loaders who want all the benefits of decent unionism without paying a cent. Industrial harmony is achieved through negotiation- through the industrial courts and commissions- which costs money. So there must be no free loading. The beneficiaries, the unionists, have to pay their way and it costs them plenty of money. Those who want all the advantages for nothing will not be advantaged in this way. The Registrar will be able to impose a prescribed fee, which will go to Consolidated Revenue in this instance. Clause 22 of the Bill is quite precise on this point. 
Section 22 also protects employees from arbitrary action and persecution from employersnot just from their own union but also from employers- in many specific ways which are itemised. Until now it nas been a case of woe betide any humble trade unionist who questioned the actions of the bureaucracy to which he had to give allegiance. Union bureaucrats have ample power to deal with people who do not pay their way or who make difficulties other than the ordinary difficulties for the union and whom, up until now, they had the right to expel. It is this which makes the preference situation somewhat difficult for many people on this side of the House to accept. Many people on this side are inclined to regard preference as a closed shop which, by the definition we have here, really is not the case. One of the great difficulties that people in the Liberal Party have in understanding preference for unionists is that it seems to resolve itself into a closed shop. The closed shop puts enormous power into the hands of the union officials both on the job and at headquarters. 
Let me give an instance of the difficulty that I have been talking about. I refer to the problem of  Mr Latham  at Broken Hill. One of the problems of the present legislation is that  Mr Latham  is suffering because he is working under a State award. I suggest to the Minister that perhaps in the near future there can be further discussions with the State Ministers for labour with a view to achieving some uniformity between Commonwealth and State legislation which will protect everybody. The whole essence of the legislation before us is that it is designed to protect the individual, to protect his rights against arbitrary dismissal, to protect his rights against arbitrary action by union officials. It is a pity that there are some situations, particularly in States controlled by Labor governments, in which those rights of individuals will still be in jeopardy because of the difficulties presently existing in State and Federal awards. So in humility I ask the Minister to give some consideration to this matter and to see what can be done to tidy the matter up. 
Everyone on this side of the House knows that all unions are not communist. I hope that no one gets the impression because I have strong views about this matter that I make a declaration that every single union in this country is a communist controlled union, that ipso facto all unions are bad and that we should have nothing to do with them. I am not suggesting that for a moment Everyone on this side of the House knows that all unions are not communist and that decent trade unionism is as essential to our present structure of civilisation as is any other social institution. I tried to make that point earlier following the remarks of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  It seemed to me that what he was advocating was defiance of the law and defiance of our civilised structures. We know that if the present communist penetration of the key unions goes on, the whole structure is likely to crumble. For example, the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union now has a membership of 170,000-3 per cent of the work force of this nation- and it has an annual income of $4m. The curious thing is that this organisation, with 3 per cent of the work force, has been responsible for nearly 30 per cent of all stoppages in recent months. This seems to me to be a most significant equation. 
In this country there is no starvation. There may be social difficulties but there is no starvation as there is in countries to our near north. There are not the difficulties that exist in some European countries. It seems to me that, if 3 per cent of the work force can cause 30 per cent of the stoppages, there is something seriously wrong in that union. Indeed there is.  Sir John  Egerton says that this particular union's awards do not compare favourably with those of unions which do similar work. For instance, in many cases its awards are not as good as those of the Australasian Society of Engineers. The honourable member for Burke and others would perhaps suggest that the reason for all the stoppages is that things are so bad that people are starving. Anyone who has read a newspaper in the last couple of weeks will know that that is not correct. It is quite plain, particularly in the Latrobe Valley where these people have been involved, that the difficulty has been caused by things other than the need for an improvement in wages and conditions. 
-The honourable member for Burke knows that. The situation has developed into a political strike. It has developed into an attempt to shatter the Victorian Government and to bring down this Government, but it will not work. Honourable members opposite may as well face the facts. In the test to come it will be quite clear what the people will say. 
We also know that the key unions in this country, such as the Waterside Workers Federation, the Seamen's Union, the railway unions, the miners, the Building Workers Industrial Union and the Builders Labourers Federation are communist controlled or strongly communist influenced. They are the key unions in this country. In a list of the 25 major unions in this country we see that 230 key positions are held by members of the Communist Party and 150 fulltime positions are held by members of the Communist Party. When one considers that situation it is not hard to realise why there is deliberate industrial anarchy in this country today. The whole purpose of this Bill is not to destroy the Communist Party- would that it were possible to do such a thing- but it is designed specifically as the beginning of a number of major industrial steps to give rights and freedom to the individuals within those unions so that they will have the full protection of the law when and if they decide to stand up and seek office in the interests of other members of those unions. 
In conclusion let me say also that anyone who has any doubts about the sort of extortion, thuggery and difficulty that has been brought to trade unionism by this dreadful element in the community should read the two Sweeney reports of 1974 and 1975. In those reports there were clear and distinct instances of extortion- demands for money under threat- on a grand scale. I submit humbly that those involved should have been gaoled and given heavy sentences. If they had done that sort of thing outside the trade union structure that would have been the penalty. It is that sort of thing also that the Bill is seeking to stop. The Bill seeks to make unions, and union officials in particular, observe the law - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 

 -Yes, Mr Speaker, I do. In an article appearing in the  National Times  of 24-29 October 1977, there is a series of misrepresentations concerning myself. The writer has run several separate matters together out of context which so completely misrepresent what I said that it gives my remarks almost the opposite meaning. In fact the journalist concerned asked me a series of questions. He asked me firstly whether I was worried about an early election. I said: 'It does not worry me at all. We are all ready for it and we will win it*. He asked me what I would do if not re-elected. I said that I had made a living before going into Parliament and that I presumed I could do it again. He suggested that I might be defeated. I said: 'I would be sorry about that but none of us should ever consider himself a permanent fixture either in this life or in Parliament'. He suggested that unemployment was the main electoral issue of an early election. I said that it was certainly an issue but not necessarily the main issue or the only issue. 
I support the proposed expenditure. The essential reason for this expenditure is an attempt by this nation to prepare for the worst. The sacrifices that we have made in the past in blood and treasure may have to be made again unless this nation adopts a policy of preparing for the worst. The worst does not always happen-only nearly always. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  should be commended for his frequent warnings to this Parliament that the democracies have never been properly ready to protect themselves. I know the 
Minister personally believes this, and whilst he is reasonably satisfied with the expenditure, of course, being a Minister for Defence, he would like more. I have the feeling from the remarks of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  that the honourable member too would like more. I think that is the essence of what he was getting at. If that is what he was getting at, I commend him and I am sure the Minister does too. I am pleased to see that there is a rather happier frame of mind prevailing between the two of them now than there was before. 
The drastic curtailment of all government expenditure was a necessary part of the national economic recovery. We still have the main objectives to achieve, but some light has been obvious in the last couple of months. It is possible that in the future we may be able to do all of the things which the Minister has spoken about previously in a statement on defence and which, of course, are absolutely vital if we are to maintain any sort of preparedness. The stated objectives of the defence policy still exist and will be pursued. When there is no clearly perceived threat it is very difficult to determine what our immediate response to a perceived threat would be. There are several obvious difficulties for us in the immediate future. If I speculated about those I would probably get myself into trouble with the Department of Foreign Affairs, so I will not do that. I would prefer just to quote from the Minister's statement. He said: 
Our present peace-time strategy is to support as best we may over a range of policies the continuation of the presently favourable prospects for our national security; to maintain effective defence relations with our friends and allies, especially the United States and in our neighbouring regions; and to maintain a substantial and efficient forceinbeing that demonstrates our military capability to deal with situations that could develop with shorter warning and to expand in time should the need for this arise during the longer term. 
In recent years, such contingency studies in our Department of Defence have focussed on the defence of Australia. 
As these studies progress, certain conclusions provide a broad basis for the development of strategic and operational concepts to deal with specific situations. But we are not going to produce a single, final answer to all our problems. The studies are manifold and involve continuing exploration of our defence problems in the light of strategic developments, changing technology and infrastructure, and changes over the years in the defence force itself. 
They are the basic concepts for which this expenditure is necessary. Something else is certain. We are not going to have the necessary population to defend this vast and rich continent. We have therefore to rely on machines rather than on men. The most efficient machines of defence are, of course, nuclear but we are presently excluded from having them for a number of reasons which I will not canvass. If all of our ambitions of exploitation and control of the 200-mile zone are to be fulfilled, we will need a range of equipment suitable for the extremities of the tropics and Antarctica. Presently we have no substantial equipment capable of serious work in the Antarctic. We must in the future spend very heavily on machines and technology. Defence science will be a most important part of future expenditure. 
There seems to be a clear public opinion that we should seize the initiative in exploiting and controlling the 200-mile economic zone. There is a demand in public opinion also for better surveillance of our existing coastal waters, particularly in the north-west of Western Australia. I think I may say that that has been attended to. I understand that three Grumman trackers based at Darwin are to attend better to the surveillance of this area in the future. Public opinion is a strange thing. Very often an opposing view cancels out another view. 
I think it is our basic duty in Parliament to inform and educate our people about our present position. We are a long way from great and powerful friends, we are underpopulated and we are also rich beyond dreams. All of this betokens a self-reliance in defence, which points to a selfreliant defence production. Actually we are worse off than we were in 1939. Imagine the problems of oil supply in any difficulty in the next few years. Would the seamen sail the tankers? We could not produce sufficient ammunition to respond quickly to any sort of crisis. The foreseeable contingencies that we face demand a defence response with lead times of eight to ten years. With our present productivity- there does not seem to be much dispute at the moment that it is low- those lead times run out to 12 to 14 years. Can we afford to keep living in a situation in which our foreseeable contingencies are based on an eight to ten year time lead? Because of our productivity and other circumstances, in reality we have a 12 to 14 year lead time. 
There is a more important and continuing problem which over many years both people and government have not helped. Prior to 1967-68 the proportion of Federal budgetary expenditure on defence was 17.1 per cent. In the 10 years from 1967-68 to 1977-78 the proportion was reduced to 8.8 per cent. That was a fantastic decrease. During the same period social spendingexpenditure on education, health and social security- nearly doubled. It increased from 25 per cent to 47 per cent of the total Budget. It is easy for each of us to blame the other. There has been a head in the sand, hedonistic attitude which I think is quite obvious to everybody on both sides of the chamber. This attitude has existed amongst our people and in this Parliament for a long time. I prefer to label it as bipartisan neglect, not bipartisan concern. All of us in this Parliament who owe allegiance to Australia's flag and a duty to its people have a basic obligation to rectify this situation before we have a serious crisis. This means an education program which we should keep up in the Parliament. It means an education program to acquaint our people with what must be done to make this country safe. 
It is essential that we do all we can for those Service men and women and their backups in defence science and all the other ancillary departments which are necessary to keep our forces in the field. We must give them encouragement, we must increase their morale and we must keep them in the Services. I see a notable exserviceman on the other side of the chamber who always interests himself in what I have to say. He would know that we may face a crisis within the next eight to 10 years, or even sooner, and that we must be prepared for it. That is precisely why this expenditure is so extensive and so necessary. 
Can the Treasurer inform the House whether it is a fact that the Australian Government has been extremely successful in its recent overseas borrowing? Are the interest rates and conditions very competitive when compared with overseas sources? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker- 

I hope the honourable member's expectations are gratified. I concur entirely with the loyalty sentiments expressed so eloquently by previous speakers and I support the motion for the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech. I also sincerely congratulate all honourable members on this side and the other side on a successful return. I know how difficult it is to return to this place. Honourable members on both sides may take my return as a measure of my sincerity. They may take it that a criterion for a return to this place is that one needs real grit. Even to win preselection one must have real grit. 
-That is true, but one needs true grit to win an election. I express my sincere gratitude to the electors of Swan for once again giving me their confidence. There was not such a great margin in the election result, but one vote would have been enough.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I should also like you to convey personally my congratulations to the  Speaker  on achieving once again his high office. You may say to him on my behalf that I hope that he is a stern and as just a father to us all as he was in the last Parliament. The matter of new members always interests me. I notice that there is another one in this House tonight who is a member of the ex-political party secretaries union. I do not know whether there are any on the other side of the chamber but I know that there is one in the Senate. My colleague behind me, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton),  is the distinguished exsecretary of the Liberal Party in New South Wales. I cannot claim to have been the secretary of such a great and powerful Party. 
-Let the dead rest. Nevertheless I am pleased to see that there are still some people coming into this place from political parties. I think the gratitude of a party should always be directed to people who serve it well. I think my friend from Mackellar will serve this Parliament well. I would be interested perhaps a little later this evening to have some private conversation with the former Leader of the Opposition in Victoria, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  and perhaps his colleague the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  to find out whether they consider coming to this place is a promotion. In the State from which I come- I think my colleagues will back me up- there is a feeling that honourable members who are elected to Federal Parliament are perhaps being demoted. One has to be really somebody important to get into the Parliament of Western Australia. 
On more serious matters, I regret that since the last Parliament we have seen the passing of some great men. William Charles Wentworth of course is no longer a member of this chamber, and that is a matter of some regret to me. I think the Parliament owes him a lot. He emphasised as long as he was here the security of Australia and more recently he was as much responsible as anybody here for making nuclear energy and everything associated with it far more acceptable to the people here and to people outside this place. I think of my friend Bert Kelly from Wakefield. I do not think his replacement is in the chamber this evening. I mean no disrespect to him. Bert Kelly was the great apostle of free trade but he was the apostle of compassionate free trade. 
-That is right, the modest member who writes his epistles each Friday in the  Australian Financial Review.  I commend them to honourable members. He did not want to destroy Australian manufacturing industryexcept slowly. I think we owe him something for pointing out some of the real difficulties that we have with the tariff system we have now. Of course from the other side of the House there was the honourable Kim Beazley who was known to us all for his very great compassion, his upholding of morality and his very great fight against abortion. I have always admired the stand he took on this issue. I may have something to say later on this subject. 
The main problem in Australia at the moment is still the economic problem, and it is not specifically unemployment. Unemployment is only part of that problem. It is a grave problem but it is not the only problem. Inflation is still with us and thanks to the work of this Government it has been sharply reduced. Our immediate problem in Australia as I see it is in continuing to finance ourselves. If we compare the figures for last January with figures for the previous January we find that our exports are down, our imports are up, and we are in the red on balance of trade and on current account. The current account figure is about twice what it was last January. This is no particular blame on this Government. It is an indication of the times and the world markets. But it highlights the fact that we need more mining projects. I am aware that the mining sector is going to have a dip generally, but if we are prepared to go ahead with strength and confidence and to push uranium more firmly I believe we are on the way out of some of our troubles. Seven of our 12 top Australian companies are miners and I believe that we have to thank them sincerely because it is their exports which are keeping Australia solvent. 
Who is trying to stop them? Who is trying its hardest to stop mining and send Australia broke? It is the Australian Conservation Foundation, an organisation about which I have had one or two things to say in the past. It is not just the Australian Conservation Foundation but also another organisation calling itself the Friends of the Earth. Now in Western Australia we have another organisation calling itself the Friends of National Parks. There is also the Campaign Against Nuclear Energy. In short, I regard these people as friends of the communists. If that statement does not start a racket on the other side of the chamber I will be disappointed. The Australian Conservation Foundation, regrettably, is still funded by this Government and is still under the chairmanship of  Dr Mosley.  It has decided to engage no less than Jack Mundey to cause even more disruption than he has achieved already. What does all this bode for Australia? Just listen to a report from a recent issue of the  West Australian  about an end to population growth through migration. Part of the article states: 
High immigration was particularly destructive of social well-being in times of high unemployment in Australia. 
The council - 
Of the Australian Conservation Foundationwelcomed  the condemnation by the Federal Labor spokesman on immigration,  Dr Cass. 
It figures, does it not? One wonders why this Government continues to fund such an organisation. I reckon the Opposition ought to fund it. It is doing a job for the Opposition. The article also states: 
A new group headed by ACF councillor  Mr Jack  Mundey  would work for improved social directions and communications between environmental groups, workers and employers' organisations. 
Over recent years we have all come to see just what this means. The article continues: 
The council strongly condemned proposed expansion of bauxite mining in the Darling Range of Western Australia. 
The ACF might join with conservation groups and authorities throughout the Pacific Basin to study the scope and effects of the chip-milling and woodpulp industry. The aim would be to find strategies for exerting adequate environmental controls. 
We all know what that means. It looks to me as though it will be a sort of environmental Comintern, if one may borrow a phrase. The article continues: 
The ACF would emphasise in its future campaign against uranium mining the questions of proliferation and safeguards . . . 
To me this is just a catalogue of subversion. It seems to me that this strategy of despair and disaster is designed to smash the Australian way of life. How can we continue? I have pointed out the fundamental pillar on which our prosperity rests. These people are trying to destroy it and to send us all back to the caves. In my own State where there is unemployment as a result of the closure of certain nickel mines due to world conditions there is a possibility of some of those unemployed people being employed in the same area with a pilot uranium plant, but we find that the Campaign Against Nuclear Energy is organising to smash, to stop and to destroy this project completely. 
Honourable members opposite cannot have it both ways. Either they want this country to emerge from some of its smaller difficulties into a new era of prosperity- the only way in which that can be done is by more exports, mainly mineral exports- or it will continue to face the difficulties which it is facing and the Government will continue to be blamed by the Opposition for those difficulties. Honourable members opposite are quite unrealistic. They always want to have it both ways. They must realise that they cannot. I say to the House, and I have said it before, that there is only one policy for this Government and this country on uranium, and that is to dig it up and to sell it. Thank heavens that is the policy in my electorate too. Otherwise 1 would not have been re-elected. 
I compliment the Government on the new taxation provisions. They have been well received in my electorate. I challenge honourable members on both sides to wear off a bit of boot leather in their electorates and find out whether I am right. Walking around is the way in which I 'farm' the electorate. Some people give me hell, but not on matters about which my friends on the other side would be delighted to embarrass the Government. We discuss all sorts of domestic matters, even football or cricket. That is the way to get close to people. They know me. Of course, a lot do not agree with me. I do not agree with them, but I am still a member. I insist that it is one way of finding out what is happening. That is why I am quite emphatic that unemployment is not the main problem in my electorate. Indeed, projecting the whole situation, I do not believe that it is the main problem in Australia. It is a grave problem, but it is not the main one. 
The greatest concern that is expressed to me by my constituents as I walk around talking with them is the breakdown in family life. They know what is going on in their streets, and they are able to point out to me the various difficult situations. They tell me that a lot of the difficulties are due to- let me express it simply- working mums. This is a problem to which we on this side of the House will have to devote some time. Indeed, honourable members on the other side have spoken privately to me about this matter. I am glad for their support and I am glad to note that some are saying it in the Parliament, because this is the place in which to say it. This is where we will be able to get something done. I do not know the final solution to this problem. I am concerned about yet another payout to encourage mother to stay home, but I wonder whether in the long run we might not save a lot of money by working out some system which would encourage mum to stay home. Honourable members opposite and honourable members on this side of the chamber know as well as I do that the fact that mum is not home is a basic cause of upset children who become misfits and juvenile delinquents in later years. I think we might save a lot of money by doing something about the problems initially, rather than having to pay the social costs later on. 
Honourable members opposite know as well as I do that marriage breakdowns and all that follows can also be attributed to the absence of the wife from the home when the husband comes home. Sometimes she is gone before he goes to work. Just imagine the situation of kiddies who are sent to school, sometimes before 8 o'clock, who play unsupervised in school grounds. They are there sometimes until after 5 o'clock because there is no mother to come home to. I know that fortunately some go home and are welcomed by the mother. I am not joking about this matter. What I have to say is as sincere and as basic as I can possibly make it. This is not just my conviction. Honourable members should not think that I am trying to ram these convictions down their throats. This is what people say to me as I go from door to door. I commend that practice to the Opposition. If the Australian Labor Party wants to beat me in the Swan electorate it should pick as a candidate someone who will go from door to door, but it will not. If Labor picked such a person, he might win. However it picks someone who sits down in lounges, reads social treatises and talks sociological jargon. Such a candidate is starting behind scratch. He will never beat me. I am telling the Opposition how it can be done. 
The people of Swan are not narrow minded, but they express concern also at the apparent departure of common sense from the education system and from the marriage laws. They point out to me that an enormous amount of Commonwealth and State money seems to be spent on an education system which is not achieving any better results than those that they can remember when they were growing up and which seems to put into the heads of the children ideas that education is something to round off a human being properly instead of teaching him how to take his place in the working world. One can understand why basic, common-sense, simple people are concerned about these huge Commonwealth expenses in education. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  may be greatly amused at what I am saying, but if he takes the trouble to go about his electorate he will find that the views expressed are exactly the same. He will find that people in his electorate are as concerned about this matter as are people in my electorate. Let me go a little further. People of both political persuasions without exception continually condemn these huge Commonwealth expenditures on education. I think that this is something at which we will have to look. Cost benefit is something that does not apply just to good accounting. 
My electors are also concerned about the family law as it exists at the moment. I do not know whether my electorate is any worse than anybody else's electorate. I have an enormous file on broken marriages. They cannot necessarily be blamed on the family law. I suppose that the endemic problem may have existed for years before that law came in, but the new Family Law Act has enabled marriages to break up easily. I understand that there is to be a review of the Act. I contend that we must seriously consider bringing back the element of fault. It is a most unfortunate and terrible situation that a wife can walk out on her husband, leave him with two or three children, go off with somebody else and then a very short time afterwards divorce proceedings can be instituted and carried through, resulting in the compulsory selling up of the family home and the division of the proceeds. Terrible consequences flow from this. I think that the Family Law Act is a complete failure. I am not being narrow minded about it. I believe that we have to reintroduce the element of fault and that we have to increase the time before divorce proceedings can be proceeded with. If we do not we will have more and more family breakdowns, and my files and the files of other honourable members will be filled with stories of unhappy people. 
I do not think so. Finally, let me refer to one matter that I regard as most important- more important than anything that I have heard in any of the speeches in this Parliament since the session began. To me this is a problem and a tragedy. I am referring to the slaughter of between 60,000 and 70,000 young Australians every year. I am not talking about death on the roads; I am talking about death in the womb. It is a curious thing that some people think that killing whales is murder- I have seen those signs on the backs of motorcars; I do not know whether they appear on this side of the continent but we have plenty of them on my side- and that abortion is not killing. They say that vivisection is a heinous crime and that abortion is not. It is a topsy turvy world in which we live. 
I think it is particularly disgraceful that government funds pay for most of the slaughter of young Australians in the womb. I do not have to emphasise or demonstrate that we are dealing with various stages of human life. That has been done by someone far more authoritative than I am. I refer to Justice Elizabeth Evatt. She was quite specific that in this regard we are dealing with human life. There was not any argument about it. She said that that was why it was such a serious problem. She continued, in a most incongruous way as far as I was concerned, to try to justify what I paraphrase as responsible killing. This is scandalous and it cannot continue. It is the greatest problem that we have in this country. We cannot expect that love, decency and good behaviour will ever come from any young Australians who survive this dreadful holocaust. The numbers are between 60,000 to 70,000 a year. They know that some parents have, for their own convenience, slaughtered their own children and in some cases the brothers and sisters of the children 1 am talking about, it cannot go on. I cannot understand how any government, be it State or Federal, can tolerate this state of affairs and I do not know how it can fund it. I ask all honourable members, out of the compassion that is in all of us, to see that we bring this dreadful practice to a stop. It cannot go on. This horrific situation is more than I can describe in the time that is left to me. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  Obviously honourable members did not hear about my duck at cricket the other day. I am no champion. Is the Treasurer aware that the readers of  Church and Nation,  which is a Uniting Church in Australia fortnightly publication, are being encouraged to seek tax deductibility for donations to an organisation known as the Movement Against Uranium Mining? Will the Treasurer assure the House and the country, and particularly the readers of  Church and Nation - 
Will the Treasurer assure the House that those people should put their money in the plate rather than waste it on MAUM? 
I grieve today as I have grieved on previous occasions for all those who will never see the light of this day or any other day. I grieve for all those young Australians who at the moment are being killed in the womb, with the approval and connivance of their parents, by doctors, in the main, who essentially were trained to heal. 
These operations are conducted under the dreadful euphemism of 'termination', which of course has very mild connotations and does not really describe what happens. Before I am finished my speech, if we consider the averages, one child will have been killed and disposed of. More than six are killed and disposed of every hour of every day of every year; that is, a rninimum of 60,000 a year. The estimates I have put the figure even higher. I am citing figures from the report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships chaired by Justice Elizabeth Evatt. 
Why is this going on in Australia? It is happening firstly because like every human weakness, every human vice, it has always been with us and probably always will be. The supreme pragmatists amongst us, and there are plenty of them, say: 'Well, if this matter is prevalent, if people want to do this thing, legalise it, clean it up, put it under supervision'. That is a very superficial point of view because in this particular case it just is not somebody's property; it is the very right to life itself. The pragmatists do not seem to realise that they are establishing, like Adolf Hitler, that the right to life does not apply to all humans and that some can be destroyed. Once this right is conceded-and it has been conceded in Australiathen who can really say that any one of us is safe? Hitler decided that all Jews did not have the right to life and so they were disposed of, with even less rights than animals. 
Some Australian judges have decided that unborn Australians do not have the right to life. One of them,  Mr Justice  Menhennitt, says that he considers abortion lawful when there is an honest belief on the part of the physician; reasonable grounds for that belief; necessity for the operation arising out of serious danger to the mother's life, or to her physical or mental health; a threat beyond the normal dangers of pregnancy and childbirth, and reasonably judged proportion between what is done and the danger sought to be averted. Some people think that this is eminently reasonable. They think: Why not? But again they do not seem to realise the very essential fact that the right to life of another human being is being jeopardised. 
This Menhennitt ruling is the basis of the thriving abortion industry in Australia today. It is responsible for what I can only describe with some horror as 'modern death factories'. These death factories' exist in every capital city except Canberra. The only reason they do not exist in Canberra is that the local people have put up such a fight. Indeed, they have been supported in this House by me and various other honourable members. Because of that successful fight, so far there are no free standing abortion clinics in Canberra. But they are in existence elsewhere and they are thriving as profitable concerns. 
The Menhennitt ruling has changed what was previously a heinous, despicable crime and turned it into a perfectly respectable operation. Is it a perfectly respectable operation? Let us look at some of the facts. In the so-called dilatation and curettage methods, young babies of up to 12 to 14 weeks are killed in the womb by being decapitated, cut into small pieces by a curette and then scraped out; or more usually by being shredded in the uterus by vacuum suction and then sucked out. I am sorry if this language is too strong for the people who are listening, but this is what happens. I think that the people of Australia have to know something about this so that they will know what is going on. 
As the baby gets older, it can be killed by pickling alive in the uterus, thus taking a couple of hours to die. It is then born dead by normal birth process, with its fragile skin burned from its body and its delicate internal membranes seared by the pickling. This must be intensely painful, for the baby of this age has already developed a real sensitivity to touch and pain over the whole of its body, and it writhes about in the uterus during the pickling, trying to escape its deadly environmental pollution. This method is illegal in Japan because it is highly risky for the woman, but it is still used here in Australia. Other abortionists prefer a hysterectotomy a small caesarean section which lifts a living baby from the uterus. The baby is then killed by someone present, turned upside down in fluid to drown, or made to bleed to death, or is left to whimper and die of prematurity. 
This is not the killing of an unborn baby; it is the killing of a living child which has proceeded from the body of its mother. It therefore could well come within sections 269 et seq of the Western Australian Criminal Code which is the one with which I am most familiar. But I have no doubt similar legislation applies in other States as well. 
Sometimes these babies, being born alive, are suitable for experimentation and can be kept alive on life support systems until they are no longer needed. Then they are allowed to die. Another method of killing the child before birth is exsanguination, by which the baby's umbilicus is drawn outside the woman's body and cut to allow the baby to bleed to death while it is unborn. It is then scraped out of the woman's body. 
I make no apology for my remarks, except perhaps to the children at present in the public galleries, for this is the Parliament of the country and I think I have the right, indeed the obligation, to tell the people of Australia what is going on. I make no apology for describing these barbarous, inhumane, disgusting killing methods. They are illegal in slaughter houses for animals, and properly so. They are, however, legal and widely practised in the best hospitals of Australia at the hands of trained surgeons and nurses. There is in Australia an increasing number of men and women who specialise in this highly lucrative skilled work of doing these killings for a living. 
These babies have committed no crime that would justify such barbarous deaths. They are killed only because their mothers, and sometimes their fathers, do not want them. However, of course, in Australia today the father has absolutely no rights at all and has absolutely no say in whether his unborn baby will live or die. The Royal Commission on Human Relationships insists that this highly discriminatory situation continue. 
This is a terrible story and Justice Menhennitt in Victoria and Justice Levine in New South Wales have made all of this terrible story that I have just outlined respectable in Australia. I hope that people listening will realise just exactly what this nice euphemism 'termination' means. I have gone to this trouble today, not without some personal embarrassment, because I have the very strong feeling that the people of Australia do not know what is going on. They stand outside the Arncliffe clinic in Sydney and see a nice hygenic exterior and perfectly ordinary people- and inside that building the sorts of things which I have just described are going on at the rate of at least six every hour, day after day. As I have said previously, before I finish speaking another unborn baby will be dead. That upsets me. I hope it upsets everybody who is listening. I hope it upsets the people of Australia. It is something the country cannot afford. Irrespective of the morality, we cannot do without these unborn Australians who are being slaughtered for no other reason than that they will be an inconvenience to their parents. 
I have heard arguments over the years about women's rights and all sorts of rights. The one right that never seems to be considered is the right of the unborn human being in the womb. The unborn baby is a separate human being with a separate entity. It has rights. I commend the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins),  who spoke previously, for his worry about a certain type of Australian. But it should be remembered that the babies that I am talking about will never see the light of day and will never know the beauty and the joy that all of us have known, as well as the tragedy and the triumph. Surely they have the right to life. 
-Tonight I rise more in sorrow than in anger. I am glad that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  is in the chamber and I am glad that you are in the chair,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because what I have to say concerns a place within your electorate. I am talking about Fraser Island. I am sad that our Government has not yet seen fit- that is how it seems to me anyway- to handle properly the application by Dillingham-Murphyores for reasonable compensation for the closing down of its operation. On 10 November 1976 our Government announced that the export approval for DM Minerals would be revoked, effective from 31 December 1976, and that no further permits would be issued. The stated purpose of the revocation was the halting of the DillinghamMurphyores mining operations on Fraser Island and the creation of a wilderness area on that island. 
The action of our Government unfortunately constituted a taking of private property for public use, for which just compensation ought to be paid. Since that taking our Government has announced that it would consider an ex gratia payment to DM Minerals based on 1977 profits and within that context would consider a claim submitted by DM Minerals. On 31 March 1977 DM Minerals submitted a claim to the Government which documents a going concern value of approximately $23m. As I understand it, so far all that we have offered the company is something like $4m. This to me does not seem fair. Even if the Minister does not have the information readily available at the moment I hope that at a later date he will be able to come back and say something to us, because this seems to' me to be inequitable. 
The business was set up as a proper going concern, with all of the proper approvals, to export sand. If the Government decided to submit to the enormous pressures of groups of conservationists in the interests of giving the Australian people this wilderness area that they thought was so important, I believe that the Government has an honest duty to give adequate compensation. If the people feel that they want a wilderness area, obviously we must all be prepared to pay for it. It seems to me that to offer $4m for a going concern valued at $23m is not equitable. I hope that at a future time the Minister will tell us that the Government is reconsidering the whole matter and is prepared to offer something more reasonable to this particular undertaking than what I consider to be the paltry sum of $4m. 
-I have listened with some interest to the pedantic offering of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  One of the things that worries me quite frankly is that I cannot see a great deal of fundamental difference between what the Government is doing and what the Opposition is advocating. With my background it worries me a little. It almost seems as though we have a bipartisan approach to foreign affairs. However, I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  will understand that there are as many views about foreign affairs as there are people in this House. Not all of us entirely agree with the direction that the Government is taking. I personally would like to see- again, I hope the Minister will understand- a lot more money spent on defence and a little less spent on foreign affairs. Nonetheless, I support the appropriations. 
I am not and never could be happy about vast investments in real estate in foreign capitals. I understand that not much will be invested in real estate in this Budget but in the past we have spent vast amounts in foreign capitals. I feel somehow that it would be much better if we spent the money on desperately needed military equipment in this country. It seems to me that we ought not to be so unsure of ourselves overseas that we need palatial and salubrious premises. I am quite certain in the world of tough realities of international affairs that we do not kid anyone. Other countries look more for reality of view and quality of view rather than at our premises. In relation to these realities, I worry a little because we are spending so much of the time of the Department of Foreign Affairs worrying and talking about the Third World, the United Nations, Africa and Rhodesia when it seems to me that the real problems that confront this country are that we have to secure for ourselves a reliable supply of oil until we discover our own supplies, we have to secure markets for our minerals and 

<graphic href="111131197809262_54_1.jpg"></graphic>

produce other than Europe, and we have to secure ourselves in South East Asia militarily, politically and economically. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke quite well in the Roy Milne lecture. I think that I am pleased to agree with him totally in one small quotation. He said that all States have their own interests and adapt their behaviour to the arena in which they are operating. This means that those in the Third World are exactly the same as we are. In the complete historical context of the first, second, third, fourth or fifth world or in any historic period we are the same because as Palmerston observed quite a long time ago: There are no such things as permanent friendships, only permanent interests. We have to stop thinking about the alleged mystique of the Third World and forget the rhetoric of anti-colonialism and non-alignment because all these can very easily be submerged in the pursuit of permanent interests. If there is a good deal going that is what they are interested in- not the rhetoric. The Third World mystique plus the insistence of great and powerful friends have kept us involved more or less directly in the United Nations and I personally feel that we are too deeply involved. 
The former United States Ambassador to the United Nations,  Mr Moynihan,  has had much to say about the United Nations and about nonaligned countries of the Third World.  President  Carter described that great non-aligned, Third World leader, Marshal Tito of Yugoslavia, as 'a man who on his own initiative combined with other great leaders, Nehru, Nasser, to form an organisation of the non-aligned peoples of the world'.  Mr Moynihan  summed up many things when, in response, he said: 
Unhappily, the so-called non-aligned have much too often, especially in recent years, been non-aligned against the United States and on behalf of the Soviet Union in every world forum and on every world issue of consequence. 
Whilst Tito may now be offside with the Soviet Union this was not always the case- so, friendships do change all the time. We should remember that sometimes great and powerful friends did nothing for us when a few years ago we were unwilling for Indonesia to have West New Guinea. This area is called something else now; but what happened then is all forgotten. We have now a good, useful and, I hope, permanent relationship with Indonesia because it is our nearest neighbour. I pray that the relationship we have now continues and prospers. The only point I make about this is that powerful friendships do not necessarily last unless the interests are there and it just was not in the interests of the United States that we should keep West New Guinea. Our involvement with the United Nations and the Third World against Rhodesia and South Africa is something with which I must express disagreement. We should not have been involved in the sanctions against Rhodesia. It has cost our primary producers dearly because we have been involved when other nations who are less straightforward than we but who screamed sanctions,' went on trading and did rather well out of it. My opinion is that if we do not have anything except words to contribute to this difficult situation we should keep our mouths closed at home and abroad and concentrate on what I regard, and have expressed before, as the real issues. 
It should be remembered that I said that securing a supply of oil was one of those issues. It seems to me that uranium is much more powerful than Third World rhetoric because in uranium we have a sure counter at the bargaining table. Iran and Saudi Arabia want uranium; we need oil until we can find a secure and permanent supply of our own. I would like the Department of" Foreign Affairs to concentrate more on this matter because it is important to the continuity of life in this country. 
Another issue, the search for markets for minerals and produce, is I am sure being taken care of by all departments concerned, but the Department of Foreign Affairs has an important place amongst them by virtue of its many posts overseas. A third issue, which perhaps is the most important now and will be in the future, is one that I notice the Minister has nagged too. In his Roy Milne address, when referring to South East Asia, he said: 
The region remains of basic strategic importance to Australia. Although at this moment it is a less pressing concern there is no guarantee that international relations in South East Asia have completely stabilised or that all the present Governments in the area are immune from subversion from internal or external sources. However, the prospects for peace and stability are better now than at any time in the last 30 years or so. 
I hope that the Minister is right but I sometimes worry when I realise that our defence expenditure as a proportion of Budget spending has dropped to half of what it was 10 years ago. Nevertheless, I hope that the Minister is completely right with that prediction. The Minister went on in that address to give significance to the region in which we live. It seems to me that we ought to be considering what we should do in the future in this area. All the elements are present for a deal which links all the nations around the Pacific into a regional bloc- call it what we will. Some people have called it a Pacific community. I do not much care what it is called as long as the idea is taken forward. We should be linking Australia, the Association of South East Asian Nations, Japan and its economic subsidiary States instead of screaming hard trade at the European Economic Community and swallowing equally mistaken doses of Third World ideology. If we did this we would be on the road to political and economic health. If we do not, before we know where we are we may find that Japan, having lost faith in the American alliance, will have re-armed and sought alliance with China. Should that happen I suggest that we may not be able to maintain the independence of this country; and that is a rather serious thing to say on this particular night of this particular year. The consequences of the failure to bring about the sort of alliance I have described may well be that serious eventually. 
The Pacific bloc, associating first Australia and the ASEAN group of States and then Japan and subsidiary nations such as Taiwan and South Korea, offers a conceivable alternative. I believe that there is still time in which to seek this result but we are running out of time. I suspect that if we do not make the substantial progress with this bloc that we should, the United States, Europe, Japan and ASEAN will probably give us away and, if that happens, we could be in very serious trouble in maintaining the independence of this country and keeping Australia a free and democratic nation in this part of the world. 
-Has the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations noted recent public comments in relation to the speeches on the unemployment problem by himself and the Prime Minister? Does he believe that these comments make any constructive contribution to the debate on this subject? 
I did not want to rise to the bait but, as a Western Australian, I cannot ignore what the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  said. It was absolute piffle. Not one person in Western Australia except a few cranks would agree with him. In Western Australia we are interested in trying to provide the jobs about which Opposition members are always talking. We are interested in trying to improve the economy. That cannot be done if troglodytes like the honourable member for Reid try to stop development. There is no threat whatsoever to the water supplies in Western Australia. That is just nonsense as has been proven scientifically by several investigations. There is no threat at all to the jarrah forests. They will grow just as well in the south as they will grow in the Darling Ranges. Where the honourable member gets this argument from I do not know. I assure this House that there is nobody with any sense in Western Australia who agrees with the honourable member for Reid. 
I want to say something about  Mrs Mary  Whitehouse for whom some of us had the honour to give a luncheon in this building last Tuesday. This lady is in Australia for two reasons connected with the forthcoming Year of the Child which is to be next year. She is promoting the integrated, loving and caring family unit as the soundest place in which to bring up children. She advocates that children should at all times be protected by the family, by society and by law from exploitation. It is an unfortunate reality that she has to emphasise that whilst there are laws against the exploitation of children in the labour market, there are no laws in this country against their exploitation in pornograpic publications. Such exploitation is taking place on a scale that would shock most Australians if they knew about it. She is careful to check her facts, and to my knowledge no one has yet proved her wrong on any question of fact. 
I found her to be a most broad minded woman. It is difficult to imagine how anyone could object to the things about which she speaks. I am sure that I speak for all honourable members in this House -I hope so anyway- when I say that it is agreed that a decent family life and legal protection from salacious exploitation are the very least we owe our Australian children. But what do we find? Everywhere the lady has spoken she has been attacked by gangs of homosexuals and lesbian thugs who have shouted insults and thrown things at her and have set out to curtail her freedom to speak on the need to protect our children and their families. These people who would deny  Mrs Whitehouse  her freedom to speak are, I have no doubt, the very same people who shout loudest about their own rights. By the words they shout and the ideas they reject, these people reveal themselves as noisy protagonists of the permissive society. Yet their permissiveness obviously stops with themselves and their ilk. They are, in fact, the new totalitarians who would ruthlessly suppress every idea but their own. 
To cap it all, we have in the Australian National University- the haven of the new socalled intellectual elite- an Australian Labor Party students' club which has taken time off from its other intellectual stimulations to condemn the lady's visit as 'bigoted, illogical, repressive and reactionary'. When did it become 'bigoted, illogical, repressive and reactionary' to desire to protect little children from being used in pornography or to desire to promote a loving, caring community of families in this country? These students, God help us, belong to the age group from which will come the parents of tomorrow. What, then, is the future for their children? Do they support for their children the things from which  Mrs Whitehouse  is trying to protect other children? Surely the decent ALP members in this House can be ashamed of the student club either for its unintelligent foolishness in thoughtlessly condemning something on which it did not bother to get some hard facts; or worse, for its implicit support for the disgusting exploitation that  Mrs Whitehouse  opposes and its implicit denial of the value of the family as the basic unit of society and the best haven for the growing child. 

 Mrs Whitehouse seeks to protect the family. Is this bigoted and illogical? I quote from an editorial in the  Canberra Times  of 24 September. It was a balanced editorial. It read:  . . . before suggesting that the family . . . should be allowed to disintegrate, the reformers should have a clear idea of what they want to put in its place. The cost of shoring-up the casualties of a social system in collapse could be much greater than the hypothetical gains sought by those who want to subvert it. 
I said much the same thing some months ago. It is to  Mrs Whitehouse  's credit that she remains dignified and kind in the face of insult. It is to her credit and to her supporters' credit that they continue their fight for decency. 
-Don May. 
-He is a man called Pownall. He does not mind being named. The important thing is that this mining Bill is quite specific and it states in sub-clause 147 ( 1 ): 
Except as provided in section 131, any party aggrieved by any final judgment, determination or decision of a warden's court may appeal therefrom to the Supreme Court. 
Then we come to clause 151, which states quite specifically: 
There shall be no right of appeal under this Part- 
b ) in respect of any decision, order or recommendation of the warden or of the Minister upon any application for a mining tenement, the forfeiture thereof, or exemption from expenditure or other conditions; 
This is the total of what is represented in this mining Bill. It is all about mining tenements, or forfeitures thereof, or exemption from expenditure, or other conditions. So it seems to me that this is a clause in a Bill which is going to affect security of tenure. As a member of the Liberal Party of Australia - 1 am concerned that the Government in Western Australia should be thinking at all seriously about such a measure. I hope that it will have another think about it. I saw this sort of thing happen under the previous Labor Government. 
This Bill is much the same draft as the Don May Bill of 1972. That Bill was copied and became a Bill proposed by the Liberal Government in 1975 which was rejected by the Party organisation. I am hoping that once again the Party will come to the rescue and will see that people, particularly the miners of Western Australia, are given the security of tenure to which they are entided. I hope that this will then have the effect of increasing foreign investment by the hundreds of millions of dollars which are necessary to get uranium, bauxite and iron ore out of the ground. 
-What we have just heard is quite irrelevant and quite incongruous. I do not think this Government has ever failed to acknowledge that it did have a problem, temporarily, with Australia's external reserves. What we are trying to do is to dig up uranium, dig up bauxite and dig up iron ore and sell them, but honourable members opposite will not let us. The other night the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  did not hesitate to tip a bucket of condolence on the bauxite operations that we are trying to get going in Western Australia. He acted like a troglodyte. It was a disgraceful exhibition. He was supported in it by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins).  I think the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  made it quite plain today that there has been a conspiracy to try to stop uranium mining in the Northern Territory. We do the best we can to cut down our overseas borrowings. We do the best we can to bring in overseas investment. Who are the fellows who are stopping it all? 
Who are the fellows who are engaged in these conspiracies? Yes, they admit it. I hope that that admission goes into the  Hansard  record too. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  I ask honourable members not to interject. 
-I think a reasonable substitute for these borrowings, in both the short term and the long term, would be to get the uranium, the iron ore and the bauxite out of the ground and to sell them. To attract the foreign investment necessary to finance these new mines we have to have a low inflation rate. We are working on that. We also have to have security of tenure for anyone investing and we have to have reasonable private enterprise. That is why  Sir Charles  Court is right when he says that the Commonwealth should keep out of iron ore pricing. We in the Federal Parliament sometimes get a lot of advice from the State people. Much of it is good, much of it is proper, and I accept it. 
Tonight I am returning the compliment a little to my State colleagues. I think that security of tenure is so vital to rnining investment- to me it is as vital as the stable economic conditions that we must have, such as a low rate of inflation and so on, in this country- that we ought to take cognisance of a mining Bill which is before the Western Australian Parliament at the moment. I know that we cannot say much to affect it one way or the other. But one of the things I am worried about is that this mining Bill seems to reduce security of tenure, which might frighten investors. 
-No. I will tell the honourable member a little story which will indicate why I am particularly interested in this matter. Some years ago some friends of mine had mines taken off them by a Minister of the Party of honourable members opposite. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations been drawn to proposals or suggestions of change in the Government's major industrial relations legislation? 
-I support the appropriation for education but I must express the disquieting feeling, of not only myself but also many others, that governments and their advisers, even under the adverse conditions that exist at the moment, are much more disposed to raise taxes than to reduce spending. Perhaps education, particularly at the tertiary level, is the most obvious area in which to reduce spending. Of total Federal Government expenditure on education of $2,498m, announced in this Budget, nearly 60 per cent will go to the tertiary area. For many years the universities and colleges of advanced education have had unbelievably generous treatment from governments and have expanded spectacularly. The provision of free education is costing the taxpayer a packet and, according to many observers in this place and elsewhere, gross extravagances in the tertiary institutions are rife. Perhaps that will come under scrutiny next year. However, had we grasped the nettle this year it might have been possible to avoid the  Vh  per cent addition to the standard rate of income tax, which has caused some upsets round the country. 
We have to ask ourselves whether the enormous amounts spent on education result in better people. We have certainly put in the money. Ten years ago spending by the Federal Government on health, education and social welfare used to make up one-quarter of the total Budget outlays. Today, this whole range of social expenditure absorbs nearly half of the total Budget outlays of our Government. One can see that in 10 years the teacher-student ratio has been reduced from 1:25 to 1:18. The number of universities has increased from 14 to 17 and the number enrolled has increased from 95,000 ten years ago to 158,000 today. I wonder whether all of this is producing better people. With the shortage of money that we have I wonder about the merit of the Commonwealth financing curricula development exercises such as the Social Education Materials Project, abbreviated to SEMP; Man; A Course of Study, abbreviated to MACOS; and another called Messageways. These foolish developments being funded by the Government are totally unnecessary and in some way they are actually anti-social. In my electorate several parents have complained to me already about that sort of thing going on in the schools. They are quite certain that it does not make better people. 
I have read it and I do not like it. I would not like my kids to be bothered with most of it. MACOS and SEMP have been banned for use in the schools in Queensland. Messageways has come under fire in my own State, and from myself in particular, and many people I have spoken to about it regard it as straight sickness. Children are being asked to play out a murder, and in one case to curse one another in a simulated witch's coven. To think that government money is being expended on that sort of rot! I cannot understand the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  having a scrap of sympathy for that sort of thing. I thought he had too much sense. Even the children know that some of this nonsense is absolutely incongruous and unnecessary. One young student in Canberra has a much better idea of what school is about than the honourable member for Capricornia. In the  Canberra Times  of 25 September this year he said: 
As far as I am concerned, the most fundamental requirement of a school is that it teach people to be as numerate, and literate (and therefore, hopefully, articulate) as possible. 
He went on: 
It would be particularly useful if grammar were reintroduced into the English syllabus . . . language, and fluency and clarity are impossible without a comprehensive understanding of its rules. 
Further, he said: 
There is also a need in schools today for a greater sense of discipline. 
He does not want to go back to the bad old days that I think the honourable member for Capricornia would accuse me of wanting to go back to. What he meant was that more control was necessary particularly in the formal classroom situation. He said: 
Allowing too much freedom weakens the students' respect for the teacher, and does nothing to promote applications to the given subject. 
To sum up, he said:  let us please eliminate the glib, meaningless, pseudo-intellectual jargon used in education . . . 
Educationists in their ivory towers may understand their esoteric language, but there is little evidence to suggest that anyone else does. The very vague outlines contained in modern syllabuses are of little practical use to teachers, who cannot be certain precisely what they are meant to be teaching. 
Out of the mouths of babes we sometimes learn. I must say two other things. Firstly, I want to deplore the sectarian challenge of the well-named DOGS- the Council for the Defence of Government Schools- to elementary justice for independent schools. I thought those dogs had died a long time ago. I do not think that they have any place in a plural community. The High Court might well have been saved the trouble if the idea I have spoken about before in this place had been implemented at the very beginning. I call the idea individual funding. Some have called it voucher funding. The originator of this scheme is Father John Doyle, a Jesuit priest located in Canberra. He prefers the term 'individual funding' because the term 'voucher' seems to carry the idea of all kinds of administrative problems when individuals change addresses, drop out of school early, and so on. Those problems would be avoided if all individual schools were entitled to bulk bill the government for their school populations, as is done now by non-government schools. Since the kind of school a child attends is primarily its parent's responsibility, governments should not discriminate among viable schools. Obviously, individual schools would not discriminate among their pupils on the basis of the size of the parents' income and would receive from the government the same basic sum whether a pupil was from a wealthy family or not. To ensure that wealthy families did not receive unneeded public subsidies for their children's schooling, tax schedules should be adjusted. This method of levelling out by means of taxation has actually been suggested by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in a statement published in the  Age  on 7 July 1 977 and in the  Canberra Times  on 1 1 July 1977, but it was left to pass unnoticed by most of the media. 
This system would draw education funding away from a concentration on the needs of schools to a concern for the needs of the individual family. Parent's right to choose would be formally recognised by law and the funding of thenchildren 's schooling would be formally a social service payment. No doubt there would still be arguments about the appropriate size of the Government's education spending, but at least each child would receive the same basic allowance, something that is not happening at present. At the same time, if parents were allowed to have and exercise a full right of choice, it is probable that they would also show a greater interest in schooling, in choosing an appropriate school, and this greater parental participation would encourage promotion of higher standards of education in the schools. Standards will not be high as long as parents feel that they have a little or no say in what goes on in the schools. One danger clearly inherent in the working of the present system of government funding is that the fees in non-government schools will rise to a level that only the well-to-do will be able to afford, and I think that was alluded to by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass). 
If the scheme I am talking about were implemented, we would be able to eliminate the needs basis. In any case, it is an undemocratic procedure if the well-to-do are the only ones who can afford to attend private schools. That will be avoided if the system of individual funding is adopted. Rather than letting this failure to do justice continue until, as is quite likely, the private sector of education gets into even greater financial difficulties, it seems to me that it would be wiser to give more detailed consideration to what I have outlined. This system regards schooling as a social service to which each child is entitled. Each child would be allotted a schooling grant equal in amount to the average cost of putting a child through a government school. The grant could be used at the school of the parents' choice and would cover basic, ordinary or standard costs. Such things as new buildings, extensions, et cetera, would be the subject of special grants not related to the individual's entitlement. 
This is almost precisely the way in which we run our social service structure at the moment. I cannot see why this scheme could not have been implemented many years ago. It would certainly have avoided some of the terrible sectarian wrangles. It would certainly have avoided the rise of DOGS and other organisations that are just as reprehensible. It would have been truly democratic Australian justice, and I think the general injustice for those who feel they have to educate their children privately has gone on for far too long. We have reached a stage in Australian democracy when it ought to be brought to an end, and I believe that the scheme I have outlined is the way in which it should be done. 
-I support the appropriation for the Department of Defence and wish there were millions of dollars more. I know the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  feels exactly that way too. I want to support some of the comments made earlier by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  about the Minister for Defence. I refer particularly to his general good-heartedness. He needs a heart as big as Phar Lap 's to carry the load we have put on him. It is terrible when a government of our basic philosophic convictions about defence finds itself in a difficult situation. I congratulate the Minister on his achievement. He says that we have had a modest but significant real increase of 1 per cent over last year's outlay on defence. In the present economic circumstances that is something with which we will just have to be content. 
Like others, I regret that we have had to curtail some of our defence objectives, as set out in the White Paper. I regret even more- I think we are all responsible for this- that over the last 10 years defence spending as a proportion of total 
Budget outlays has dropped from 17 per cent to about 81/2 per cent. I think that is something that does not reflect much credit on this Parliament. At the same time our singularity as a nation, our separation from great and powerful friends, has increased. I do not need to allude to any of the things to which the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  alluded to support that argument. We are on our own. We have to make big and important decisions. 
I wish to spend a moment now discussing Western Australia's feelings about defence. Western Australia is the largest State with the greatest length of coastline. The Timor Sea laps its northern shores and the Indian and Southern Oceans lap the rest of its coastline. Western Australians have always been terribly concerned about security, principally because our iron ore and other primary exports go across the Indian Ocean. We are terribly concerned at the present lack of surveillance. We know that the Government is doing something about that, but we are basically concerned, I suppose, because of our sparse population, the general isolation in our north and the fact that so much of our potential wealth is in the north-west. Western Australians have had an historic concern with defence. It is true that this issue was the only reason why Western Australia came into the Federation. I might say that that decision has been under constant challenge from secessionists. I know that my friends will support me when I say that disabilities, such as high tariffs and centralised decisions which hurt Western Australia, keep that secession feeling alive. I know that the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  would agree with that. 

 Mr Deputy Chairman, I will not ask you to bring me back to the subject under discussion. I will come back to it of my own volition. Defence is the subject about which we are worried today. All Western Australians were a little reassured earlier this year, when the Minister and various other people came over and at last opened the Garden Island naval base at Cockburn Sound. The need for that base has been in the minds of the defence establishment almost since Federation and it has taken 78 years and two World Wars to get this naval base. There are some strategic thinkers who feel that it has almost outlived its usefulness. There are some, of course, who have said that the bricks and mortar at Garden Island are a bad investment. I would agree with that in war time, but in peacetime we should take the opportunity to give our servicemen and women every comfort and facility. It is they to whom we look to fight for us and, if necessary, give their lives for us. That is an eventuality that none of us hope for, but with the inevitability of the troubles of this world it has come about far too often. 
I believe that the major part of defence expenditure should be on equipment and service personnel rather than on what others have referred to as a ballpoint bureaucracy or even something such as Casey University, which has been in the minds of all honourable members recently. I have to say to the Minister that every service person with whom I have spoken in recent times seems to be against the idea of Casey University. They would prefer the existing service education system to be modified rather than to commence a new project. I hope that the Minister will have more talks with service personnel at all levels, at least at the level that would be part of the establishment at Casey University. I suppose that I am one of those people who say that we should assess our basic needs for defence and then find the money to satisfy them. These days we have to be pretty sure of ourselves because, as the Minister has pointed out in his statement, there are enormous costs. For instance, tank practice rounds cost in excess of $350 each and the cost of training a tank crew exceeds $ 1 8,000. 
-That if for ammunition alone. Missiles are even more costly. Standard surfacetoair missiles fitted in our DDG destroyers cost $145,000 each. The harpoon missile in the FFG costs in excess of $500,000. Those of us- I am one of them- who say that we must assess what we need and then find the money for it must bear that in mind. I make this point because very often it is said that those of us who believe that we should work out what we need first do not think about the costs involved, but we do think about the costs involved. I stick to the theory that we should basically assess what we must have and then pay the price. That has always been the way defence establishes itself. To date we have been lucky. We have avoided difficulties but inevitably, as has happened already a few times this century, there will be other difficulties. This time I hope we are ready. The Minister has said that democracies have never been ready for any conflict in the last 70 years. I have heard him say that at least four times in this chamber and it cannot be said often enough. 
I regret the loss today of an FI 1 1 aircraft but this in no way faults the excellent judgment of those who originally decided to give us this aircraft. It is basically a nuclear bomber and that probably accounts for some of the sensitivity of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  earlier on. He knows that it is a nuclear bomber. We all know that it is a nuclear bomber. Really what we ought to be thinking about here and in other places is ensuring that it has its complete equipment. It is perhaps useful in some respects to try to transform these nuclear bombers into reconnaissance aircraft but I would prefer to go to the logic of the situation and complete the equipment. At this point I wish to make a few basic reflections about the present defence criteria. 
I would say to the honourable member for Port Adelaide that there is plenty of room for differences of opinion in this place. I have been a member for a couple of years now and although the Minister and I are not necessarily totally in agreement about everything by and large we seem to get by. There is plenty of room for a difference of opinion. He would probably disagree with what I am going to say now, but it is going to be said anyway. This nation is huge, rich and under-populated. It is logical that because we lack people we should concentrate on defending ourselves with the most efficient machines. Some of these are nuclear and some are rocket propelled. I know the ritual song and dance that normally go on when these things are mentioned in this place, but we cannot run away from the inevitability and the logic of equipping ourselves properly to defend ourselves. 
-That is a silly interjection from the honourable member. He knows very well that one cannot specify who one's enemies will be at any time. I keep saying to honourable members opposite that there are no such things as permanent friendships or permanent enemies; only permanent interests. The honourable member knows that as well as I do. Our nearest neighbours- South Africa, India, China and the United States- all have nuclear weapons. Why cannot we? We have a better standard of civilisation than some of those countries and our very future might well demand one day that we answer this vital question. I do not mind answering it now. I vote yes. The sooner this country is equipped with its full defence equipment, part of which should be nuclear, the better it will be. Meanwhile the present demands our attention and I commend the appropriation for the Department of Defence. 
-The Minister for Foreign Affairs will recollect that on 2 November he and the Foreign Minister of Papua New Guinea initialled an agreement covering the sea bed border between Australia and Papua New Guinea. Can the Minister assure the House that the Torres Strait Islanders, who are most affected by this new agreement, are fully aware of the terms of the treaty and that they fully support it? Have the terms of the agreement, initialled on 2 November, been altered substantially from those announced by the Minister to this House on 25 May this year? 
-I draw the attention of the House to an article about the mining industry in the United States of America that appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  of last Wednesday under the heading Mining industry controls; the tide ebbs'. I wish that that situation would come to Australia. I hope that the Australian Mining Industry Council will take note of this ebbing tide in the United States. I hope that the companies will see that the opportunity is here for them to make their pace with government and the people of this country through the apparatus that they have for public communication and to see that the ebb-tide of controls starts in this country, too. The situation has become so serious in the United States that Charles Barber, the  Chairman  of Asarco, a major minerals group is reported in the  Financial Review  as saying recently: 
Unless something changes 10 years or 20 years from now our mineral industry will have disappeared. 
The article states that  Mr Barber  said that when commenting on a Department of Commerce study which showed that by 1987 the cost to the copper industry of meeting environmental regulations would rise to a total of $4.5 billion. A multitude of government and other agencies have brought about this situation in the United States and the whole minerals industry, including the copper industry, is boxed in by a series of Acts about clean air, federal water pollution, marine protection, federal insecticide, safe drinking water, toxic substances control, resource conservation, surface mining control and reclamation and clean water. All these Acts were passed between 1970 and 1977. These sorts of things have happened in Australia, too. 
It is often forgotten, particularly by the extreme conservationists in this country, just how much this country owes to the mining industry. The article in the  Financial Review  made it quite clear that, for example, 40 minerals are used in the manufacture of every telephone. I wonder whether the honourable members opposite who seem to go for the extremes of conservation and the people outside who use telephones so much in the cause of sabotaging Australian industry realise that 40 minerals are used in the construction of every telephone. In order to bring the country down they are quite prepared to use the tilings which the mining industry provides. I think that this is scandalous. 
I move from the situation in the United States to the situation in Australia. I do not often commend any of the Ministers, but I would like the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is at the table, to convey to his friend and colleague the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  my congratulations for the cuts that have been made to the grants for the Australian Conservation Foundation in particular. If I can keep on speaking to the House about this matter the situation will arise in which the Australian Conservation Foundation will not get a cracker. That is the situation that I want to bring about. That is what I have been striving for ever since I have been here. The Foundation's funds have been cut. So in some respects, I have been successful. I hope that everyone else who feels the same as I do will say much the same thing. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development made two important points in a recent news release. I will not ask for leave to incorporate it in  Hansard  but I will quote a couple of sentences from it which I think are significant. The news release stated: 
The Government had, however, decided that from next year (1979-80) the matching grant would be made on a $1 for $1 basis. 
In other words, the conservationists will have to do something for themselves and raise a few bob themselves to pay for the sabotage. The Minister went on to say: 
The protection of the National Estate is not the responsibility of government alone or of one group of people. It is something in which the whole community should be involved. 
I would like to know how much of the community has been involved in the extreme conservation movements. It is quite obvious that it would not be a large percentage. If we took a survey of the members of this House we would find that very few of them are so involved. I know that there are one or two on our side who still pay their money, very foolishly I think, to the Victorian branch of the Australian Conservation Foundation. This is a complete waste of money. I hope that they take what the Minister has said seriously. I hope that they do not give it another cracker. I hope that, from now on, the Government will make it harder for these groups. I have said in this House before that all we seem to do is feed our enemies. They take the money that we give them and use it to propagandise against us. If these cuts are not made, we can expect to see some of the money from the Australian Conservation Foundation used to destroy the Yeppoon project in Queensland. This is absolutely disgraceful. I think that this action is a most refreshing departure from what we have seen up to date. I hope that the Minister will continue with the good work that he has started and reduce the funding to nil. 
Is the Minister for Defence aware that concern is being expressed, particularly in Western Australia and no doubt in other places, at the large number of civilians employed by the Department of Defence in comparison with the number of Service people in defence forces? If this is the case, will the Minister explain why we need such numbers of civilians and could, steps be taken to reduce the civilian element in the defence forces? 
-In joining this debate I should like to give a few personal reflections which may not be what everybody wants to hear. I see my old friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  on the other side of the chamber. I battled over some of these matters in Victoria many years ago and I hope he does not mind if I refer to some of them. My life has not been all that long but I have seen a world war. I did not fight in it because I was a little young but I have studied its causes. I see much today that parallels the pre- 1939 situation. Much can be learned if that period is studied. One of the principal things that people should study is totalitarianism, at which, in my judgment, the unlamented nazis and facists were mere amateurs. The true professionals are the communists of one kind and another- I make no distinction between them. They always were and they still are. 
I have spent all of my adult life, and some of my youth, fighting them and all that they stand for wherever they are. That is why I have difficulty accepting the present Chinese overtures of friendship with Australia as being genuinely sincere. How can I? I have seen these people rise and I have fought them all my life. How can I change now? I must say that I have a little difficulty in seeing how others can do it. I have said frequently in this House and elsewhere that the only differences between the various communist parties in this world today is in the methods they would use to cut our throats. That may be a crude way of putting it but if anyone can give me a better and more practical definition of the differences between the communist parties I should like to hear it. 
One can spend much time in studying ideological differences, clashes of personality and even the intrusions of nationalism, but the fundamental truth is that the dispute is still between them and all they stand for and us and all we stand for. And what do we stand for? I believe we stand for a great tradition, a peculiarly Western philosophy of liberty which has been hard won. It has not suddenly appeared. I believe that we are battling to make that philosophy become, by its own truth and by its own suggestion of truth, more world wide. And I think we are losing because of the strength of the communist parties. The one thing that unites them all is that they are fundamentally totalitarian. That can never be said about the present Western tradition of political liberalism which we have. I think it is important to say that. 
I well remember the opprobrium that many of us- people of my kind- had to bear during our efforts to save South Vietnam from communism. I think it is worth remembering now that much the same thing happened when we were fighting the ideological battle to help save South Korea. We were fighting it very much against the same sort of people. Happily for the South Koreans, the world wide efforts of the communists and their friends were unsuccessful and South Korea is still not under communist control. It was said then about the South Koreans- it was also said during the Vietnam war about the South Vietnamese- that they were corrupt, that they were bankrupt of liberty and that they had a form of dictatorship. I do not propose to argue the details of those propositions. 
I always said- and I still believe it- that it was impossible to bring instant democracy as we know it, with our Westminster system, to any of these places. It cannot be done overnight. Whatever those countries were suffering from- I admit that they were suffering- it was not permanent, it was not total and it was better than the communism from which they are suffering now. If honourable members want better expressions of view than I can give I refer them to our friend and colleague Lee Kuan Yew of Singapore.  His  views on this matter are worth listening to. He frequently says that he wonders whether the people who are fleeing from South Vietnam now are sorry that they did not fight a bit harder. He knows as well as I do- and everybody in this House knows- what happened in Vietnam. Today Vietnam is totally controlled by Communism. China is totally controlled by Communism. All of Cambodia is controlled by Communism. I noted that a distinguished Chinese lady the other evening still called that country Cambodia. Communists control all of Laos. The totalitarian jackals- that is all I can call them- are on the periphery of our prosperous civilisation seeking to bite, to savage and to destroy us. That is what they are. They are fighting now amongst themselves. 
I want to make several points. Firstly, I refer again to my friend from Melbourne Ports. The dominoes are falling. Oh, how we had trouble in demonstrating the validity of the domino theory. Fun was made of us. It was said that we did not understand world politics and that we had no idea of the real world. I think we had a better idea of the real world and what happened in the real world- and what has happened since- than those who opposed us at that time. All the things we warned against are coming true. 
My second point is that the dispute amongst the totalitarian gangsters- the Soviet Union, China and Vietnam- proves what I have always thought about them. It should have salient lessons for those who work along with any of these mass murderers. I have heard one or two speeches in this place which if they were not apologies for the gangsterism that we have seen in north Asia recently I do not know what they were. 
Oh, I make no reference. The third point is that Australia is of definite interest to all three of those countries. I leave it to the imagination of members of the House to work out how far that interest might extend. I am willing to risk the laughter of those people who have laughed for years about this matter. In fact, when I have spoken in this manner- I have spoken in this manner when the situation was perhaps less serious than it is now- the people where I come from have said to me: 'Oh, there he is again. He is waiting for the sampans to come up the Swan River.' I would have good reason to worry because the Swan River runs through most of my electorate, and I do not want them coming up that river. Putting jokes aside, this is the sort of simplistic stupidity that is uttered when one makes a criticism or a statement of the world as it is. 
I see no reason to change any view that I have ever had about totalitarianism. Equally I have good reason to change my views about the importance of our American connections. I will always be grateful that American blood and treasure purchased my liberty from Imperial Japan. As I look around this chamber I see that not too many honourable members are present. It is a fact that American blood and treasure purchased our liberty from the ambitions of Imperial Japan. That occurred not so very long ago. 
I would like the House to remember that. Nevertheless, I believe that America is shattered after almost deliberately losing in Vietnam. But I have to laugh when I hear this nonsense about the greatest military power in the world, as it was then, going down to a bunch of amateurs in big warfare- perhaps they are masters of guerrilla warfare but amateurs in big warfare- who were ill-equipped and undermanned. When I hear stories that this power was beaten in a straight fight by North Vietman it makes me laugh. Everybody in this place knows that, for various political reasons which I might go into later, the American effort slackened. That is why Vietnam was lost. The Americans did not lose a military war, they lost a psychological war. The losing of that war has had tragic consequences for us and everybody else in the South East Asian region. If honourable members do not believe me they should ask Lee Kuan Yew. He is a few thousand miles closer to the centre of activity than we are. 
I believe that we are in a difficult situation because we have tended to base almost all of our defence and foreign policy on the fundamental belief that American assistance would be forthcoming. As I said before, America has been shattered following the Vietnam war. While conceding a nuclear as well as a conventional weaponry superiority to the Soviet, America is not willing to engage or capable of engaging again in South East Asia, if Australia is the only concern. I say that deliberately because everything I have seen and heard bears it out. The document I have seen most recently is a paper of the United States International Communication Agency written by Arthur Schlesinger Junior and dated 1 March 1978. 1 think a few extracts from his paper support the point that I am trying to make. He states: 
I have been a card-carrying geopolitician ever since I first read Halford MacKinder and Nicholas Spykman 33 years ago. 
That qualification certainly seems to be as credible and as good as the credentials of our Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  who is some geopolitician also. Arthur Schlesinger further states: 
I have believed all my sentient life that foreign policy must be based on national interest. 
How many times have I said that in this place? He continues: 
I have always subscribed to George Washington's observation that it was 'a maxim founded on the universal experience of mankind, that no nation is to be trusted farther than it is bound by its interests. ' 
I think these sentiments give honourable members further reason to believe what I am saying. I say in relation to what  Mr Schlesinger  has had to say: 'Them's my sentiments', to put it in simple Australian. I think that we have to look at the proposition before we will accept it. The sooner that people will accept that as the rule of the world, instead of the woolly nonsense that comes out of places like the United Nations and certain other conferences with which I do not have time to deal, the sooner that people believe that as the hard reality of this world, the sooner we will get down to a harder debate in this country about what are the realities. Arthur Schlesinger further states: 
It was the Wilsonian conviction of our global mission, not realistic calculations of our national interest, that got us into Vietnam. 
All we needed after Vietnam to persuade the world of our weakness and incompetence was to have got heavily involved once more on the losing side in a third world civil war. 
He goes on to talk about an author whose name I will not mention. He continues: 
. 'the- nations of this world admire winners, not losers- not even ' nice ' losers. ' 
He goes on to state: 
To recognise the power of nationalism and the local origins of turbulence in the hopelessly unstable third world does not mean American indifference to the vicissitudes of international life. 
The key sentence is this: 
It means rather a discrimination in the definition of Amernan interests and in the employment of American power. 
If that is true- I believe it is- how could we realistically expect help from the United States if we had a conflict of interests with China, Japan, Indonesia or even India? The Americans might give us a prayer, as Kennedy did when we had a conflict of interests with Indonesia over West New Guinea. Perhaps I am the only one who remembers that incident. I am sure that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  can remember it. I do not intend to ramble around Africa and the United Nations. I think other members in this place and people from elsewhere have rambled around with disastrous results for the rest of the world. I repeat what I have said previously, namely, that the Department of Foreign Affairs should be helping the country to find new and reliable oil supplies, for until we are self-sufficient- we are slow about finding supplies- we may find ourselves in dire peril. 
What I have had to say has not been terribly polite, but it is plain, and I think that plain speaking is refreshing. It is refreshing for me even if it is not for other honourable members. In our semi-prosperous society it is easy to believe that things will always be the same, simply because that is what we are accustomed to. I point out that we are a European civilisation living in the Asian region. We are rich, tragically underpopulated and it seems that we are determined to stay that way. After all, we fund the killing of our unborn children. We will hear all about that in the next week of sitting. We are not strongly defended. I hope that the drum beats in Asia and the murderous antics of the gang of three- the Soviet Union, China and Vietnam- are heard and noted by every Australian. We live here now, but for how much longer? 
My question, which is directed to you,  Mr Speaker,  concerns the indicative list of speakers for Order of the Day No. 1 - Termination of pregnancy- Medical benefits. It seems that the list of speakers for and against the motion is so extensive that many members will not have an opportunity to speak in the debate. It is on behalf of those members and on my own behalf that I ask whether you,  Mr Speaker,  will negotiate or use your good offices with the acting Leader of the House and the Acting Manager of Opposition Business to see whether something can be worked out whereby some of us can express our opinion. 
I think I can help the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett).  It does seem to me that the law as we know it was designed principally to protect the weak from the strong. The most helpless innocent person- it is a person- that we know in this life is the unborn. The honourable member can be sure of one thing: No matter how sophisticated his argument, at the end of what he proposed there would be a dead human being. If I followed the reasoning of the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett),  it seems to me that his idea is that all these questions are too hard to deal with; we should leave things as they are and try not to improve them. The real question before the House today is: What is this Parliament's attitude to abortion? Are we a proabortion parliament or are we a pro-life parliament? The burden of most of the amendments, as far as they go, is that we believe that this Parliament is for a huie bit of abortion, not a lot of abortion as is the present position. I am in a difficult situation. I wanted to support the Lusher motion totally. I must say that I was not entirely happy with the qualification in the Lusher motion about the danger of death to the mother. To my knowledge there has been no case in the last 20 years of that particular dilemma, namely, of the mother or the baby being in danger of death. It does not occur in good gynaecology. It seems to me that the Lusher motion was perhaps a little weak in that respect. I am forced to support the Lusher motion because nothing better has been put forward. If this Parliament does not accept the Lusher motion, I will probably be forced to support the Hyde amendment. I am less than enthusiastic about any of the other amendments. The burden of the Simon amendment is to leave things exactly as they are. That is to me somewhat hypocritical in the sense that it tries to get this Parliament off the hook and tries to make us look like anti-abortionists. Many honourable members on the other side and some on this side of the House have tried to look like antiabortionists, yet the effect of the motion in support of which they are speaking seeks, at the worst, to allow for more abortions or to maintain the present situation. There is no way in which this Parliament can get off the hook. When this debate has concluded we will be seen either as a pro-abortion parliament or as an anti-abortion parliament. I hope that we look as though we are an anti-abortion parliament. 
It is vitally important to emphasise that the original motion which is before the House does not make abortions illegal. That is a matter for State laws, and it is to the eternal shame of this country that most of the States, through default of enforcement of pro-abortion laws, permit unborn babies to be killed virtually on demand. I hope that by our setting a reasonable example something will be done. The Lusher motion is carefully constructed. It aims to protect the unborn child, not from being killed, unfortunately, but from being killed at public expense. Honourable members should remember that, although we are arguing the moral issues, that is the matter on which we are supposed to be voting tonight. It is important to be quite clear on the fact that the only change is to the funding of the operation, not to its legality. 
Why then is the Australian Medical Association so fierce in its condemnation of the Lusher motion? The answer is not far to seek: It is money. The AMA knows that if women demanding abortions have to pay for them out of their own pockets there will be some slackening of demand for the operation and the doctors performing it will suffer cuts in income. In the long run there will be two courses open to the doctors if they want to continue milking the greatest possible amount of cold hard cash out of these patients for killing their babies. They will have to charge more for each operation, or they will have to charge much less and hope to make up their incomes by sheer bulk of business. The reality of the filthy abortion trade will be exposed for what it is. A doctor who wants to make money out of killing will have to go into open competition with others of his kind. I find the attitude of the AMA sickening. No one knows better than the doctors that they are killing unborn babies every time they perform this operation. They know that life begins at conception. 
Let me cut a long story short. I will tell honourable members what is happening in Australia today. We in this Parliament and those who preceded us have evaded our responsibilities, and other members of other parliaments have done the same thing. Because of that we have had developed in this country slaughter by stealth. We have evaded our responsibilities. We in this country have allowed some judges whom I regard as being completely foolish to assume the responsibilities of parliaments. They have then passed those responsibilities on to doctors. This is a very serious situation. The raising of this issue started because parliaments have not accepted their responsibilities. I believe that the Simon amendment and others- I do not include the Hyde amendment- are just a recapitulation of the old scare arguments. They are very bad in the sense that they take up the hard cases which make bad laws. If we in this Parliament take up those few hard scare cases and make bad lawsthat has been done in other parliaments- we will rue the day; we will pay the penalty. I ask this House to support the Lusher motion. Failing that motion receiving support, I ask the House to support the Hyde amendment and to reject all other amendments. 
-Has the Acting Prime Minister seen a report in the Perth  Sunday Times  of 29 April which intimates that he is in favour of the immediate opening of the Marandoo iron ore project in Western Australia and that he considers that in all respects Marandoo is ready to go, as against Goldsworthy Area C which has reached the stage of being more or less only lines on the ground? Is it a fact that Marandoo has been in all respects ready to go for some considerable time? Is it a fact also that Goldsworthy is in a state of complete unreadiness to supply the iron ore market anywhere in the world? Finally, would not the opening of the Marandoo iron ore project be a far more suitable birthday present for a very great Australian than some of the nonsense that has been talked about on the other side of the House this week? 
-I support the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Amendment Bill and the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Amendment Bill. I hope that they will help in some ways the schools in my electorate. I suppose that that is the ultimate hope of every member of this House whichever side of the House he sits. I listened with some interest to the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys).  Even though he made an interesting speech, we on this side of the House were not convinced by it and I assure him that we have no intention of defecting in droves, as he prophesised. For the time being anyway, I think that the present Bills are the only way to handle the situation. But I insist- I had something to say elsewhere today about matters like this-that the Government must soon have a more complete look at the tremendous education expenditure to see whether we are getting the value for it that we ought to be getting. We are the people who are supposed to oversee whether value is being obtained. That is a pretty solemn responsibility and one that from time to time we are inclined to neglect. These Bills, these hardy annuals, keep coming up. In the few years in which I have been a member of this place I have seen them time and again. We are inclined to take them for granted. In view of our present situation, I serve notice on the Government that I will not take them for granted any more, but for the present they will have to do. 
It was popular once to pour money into education firmly in the belief that money would solve all problems but I think that we have found in this area and in a number of other areas such as welfare and health- in fact, just about any field we have had anything to do with recentlythat money is not the answer. It does not solve all the problems. In education in particular there seems to be an absence of direction and clear vision. There is certainly an absence of dedication in the teaching profession when I compare it with what I knew when it was my good fortune to go through the primary and secondary systems. Unless we are able to look at these matters closely we will fail to be careful about spending the people's money and those in the bureaucracy which seems to be so beloved of this fair capital will triumph. They will get the lion's share not only of education spending but also anything else for which we allocate funds. 
That more money is not the answer is the firm conclusion of two people, one an educationist and the other an economist. I refer to  Mr D  'Cruz of the School of Education at La Trobe University in Melbourne and  Mr Sheehan  of the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research at Melbourne University. Recently they published a report for the Australian Council for Educational Research. It appears that five years after the Australian Schools Commission began using the money approach as a solution for all problems and to redress inequalities among Australian schools they have found that nongovernment schools, particularly some Catholic schools, are achieving higher levels of education outcomes than government schools in spite of lower resource inputs. At present, when the Schools Commission is providing 85 per cent of the finance for Catholic primary schools and when the amount allocated to government schools is tending to flatten out, the authors suggest that it is no longer sensible to look at Australian education in terms of resources. The conclusion they drew is that there is no evidence to sustain the view that educational disadvantage exists in the area of lowest resources. 
I would expect that sort of comment from the honourable member. I am offering him and anyone else who cares to listen the experience gained over five years of people who were paid by a previous government of the honourable member's colour to find out something about this matter. They have drawn that conclusion. I believe that it disproves the entire education thesis that people on the other side of the House are continually putting forward. I am sorry to keep the honourable member for Batman up. If he has a glass of water I am sure that it will get him out of the sleepiness that seems to be coming on him at the moment. By way of contrast to the findings of the eminent people to whom I have referred, the  President  of the Australian Teachers Federation,  Mr Van  Davy, who is no doubt a friend of the honourable member for Batman, said at the Federation's annual conference in Hobart earlier this month that up to one in eight adults in Australia is functionally illiterate and that 320,000 school children at present need extra help in literacy and numeracy. What this tells me is that we are not getting value for the money put into education. As I said before, it is a vast amount. We would expect people such as  Mr Van  Davy, the honourable member for Batman and those on the other side of the House who have spoken in this debate to say that what is needed to overcome this problem is yet more money. Not enough is being wasted already. It seems to me from the experiences of the people to whom I have referred that money will not be enough. Something else needs to be done. 
More money is not the answer. That belief is also supported to some extent by yet another educationist, Professor Chipman, the editor of the  ACES Review.  Recently he told the Queensland Branch of the Australian Council of Educational Standards that there were three root causes in the present education problem. He suggested means by which the situation could be remedied. In terms of the causes, Professor Chipman said in regard to the school sector   . . the real issue is not how great the decline in standards has been, but why there has not been a massive improvement with the increased funding, more favourable teacher-pupil ratio, and the higher public esteem enjoyed by education in recent years. 
As I said before, Professor Chipman claims that there are three root causes of the present malaise in public education. As to the first one, he states: 
The dominance of muddled and largely indefensible educational theories and philosophies in many teacher education establishments, particularly universities, and in education administration. 
As to the second:  abandonment by parents of responsibility for the 'socialisation ' of their children. 
The third:  the absence of any effective form of accountability in public education. 
I suggest that Professor Chipman is a rather more eminent authority than either the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  and the honourable member for Griffith, who preceded him. 
-One of the fundamental theses of people on the honourable member's side of the House is the production of all sorts of social experts, social tinkerers, and people who were closely associated with the former Labor Prime Minister. These are the people who got this country into its present trouble and now we are trying to get out of it. All the things we saw happen the other night happened only because we are trying to get ourselves out of the dreadful mess into which the Labor Party pulled us. Indeed, that situation came about because of people such as the honourable member for Batman. 
Let me come back to the point. Professor Chipman feels that the practical solution lies in making educational institutions at all levels more accountable, both educationally and financially. He suggests that there should be a new Australian basic certificate to test the basic skills of school children in four areas: Basic arithmetical and computational skills; elementary natural science; English expression and comprehension; and clear thinking. Indeed, there are people on the other side of the House who should take the latter course as soon as possible. Professor Chipman claims that for that certificate to have any credibility at all with employers there would have to be at least a SO per cent external assessment, that is, the setting and marking of papers by people other than the teachers of the pupils concerned. 
The introduction of an Australian basic certificate should be accompanied by a voucher system of educational funding at the school level, coupled with a means-tested system at the senior secondary and tertiary levels. This would mean providing each family with a ticket representing the real cost of providing that family's children with a standard approved education, a ticket which the family could then spend at the school of its choice, paying additional funds if it wished for any non-standard features a particular school might provide. It is on that matter that I should like to spend a little time. I am going to surprise some of my friends behind me by for once saying a few kind words about the Schools Commission. They know that I have not always been kind to the Schools Commission. I was inclined to think about the Schools Commission in the way in which it was described recently in an article by G. R. F. Hughes in  Quadrant:  'An unlikely mixture created by Gough in the image of the platypus, shoes of the fisherman, arms of Robin Hood and the head of Henry Parkes on the body of pork barrel'. I have always thought that that was not a bad description of the Schools Commission. But, as I have said, I will surprise my friends by saying something in support of the Schools Commission. 
In April 1978, the Schools Commission published its triennial report for 1979-81. The first chapter in that report is very critical of centralism, especially of the fact that 'some catholic systems have moved . . . towards ways of operating from which public systems are retreating'. In other words, the catholic systems were disappointing the Commission's expectation that, because they existed as individual schools before systemisation, even after absorption they would provide 'a new systemic model  . . which would maximise the service a system might render to schools while enhancing their effectiveness as institutions rooted in and responsive to their individual communities. ' They are quotations from the report. I sympathise with the Commission, but I have to say that it must have been pretty starry-eyed to have expected anything else. After all, the government school system, with all its centralisation, a century or more ago replaced individual schools responsible to their individual communities. The old maxim stands, and I know that my friend the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  will be delighted to hear it, because it applies not only in education but in everything else: 'Fund the supplier and the consumer gets short shrift; fund the consumer, and the supplier meets the demand.' That is basic doctrine in any government spending anywhere in the world. 
The Schools Commission's excellent project for devolution of educational authority, including financial authority, I assert can best be implemented by funding the consumer, that is, the child attending school or his family- not the school directly or the system, but the child whose education, whose life therefore, is what this whole operation is about. Twice previously in this House I have advocated a form of individual funding. I am sure that that scheme, both economically and practically, will stand open and unprejudiced expert analysis. There are some patent injustices in the way in which we presently fund government and non-government schools. Overall, children in the latter schools receive per capita less than half of what their government school neighbours receive. Equal needs are not being met with equal aid, which is why I recommend that the Schools Commission's needs policy should be applied to each family and not to institutions, whether public or private, attended by children from quite different socioeconomic backgrounds. 
I do not want to go into that now. Rather, I wish to congratulate the Schools Commissionthat will probably shock the Commission as much as it will shock my friends behind me- on its publication 'Some Aspects of School Funding in Australia '. It is a basis for beginning from taws and re-examing the whole issue. I draw attention especially to chapter 5, 'Payments to Individuals ', which discusses a number of rather complicated voucher schemes. 
It might even dawn on the honourable member for Batman if he is patient. I agree with the idea of the voucher system, but I think that we should not need anything so complex in Australia. I am inclined to agree with the suggestion that all schools should bulk-bill according to their school population, in the same way as private schools now do, for the meagre aid that, like the diet in slave labour camps, barely suffices to keep them alive. I leave it to the imagination to decide who is swallowing most of the metaphorical food about which I am talking. I applaud the Commission's initiative and regret that public discussion of its 'payments to individuals ' has shown some immaturity at the moment. Many people associated with established systems, however newly and hastily established do not seem to be as open as the Commission and as ready to consider honestly what is a pretty radical suggestion. Some of them consider that it would not work or even that no government would accept it and that therefore it would be better to make the best of a poor job and grab what one can. It is the usual policy not of need, but of greed. The problem is that the theory is worth thinking out, but at this stage the government unfortunately has refused to do the thinking necessary to make it come true. In any case, a study that might be done on this matter of vouchers might even suggest ways other funding schemes could be made more effective. They would angrily repudiate the charge, if anyone had the temerity to make it, but I fear that there are a few who quite unconsciously are afraid of any change in the centralist- they would say centralised '-organisations that enmesh them in false security. The system is working, so far as they can see, far as they are from the schools where the action is, from the need, the deprivation, the decay, the disrepair and the desperation. So let the juggernaut grind on. They do not even realise that in this Year of the Child it is grinding children into the ground. They do not even think that the cost of unduly bureaucratic administration- they do not like that phrasewould open up new worlds, new futures, to hundreds of inner city poor and immigrant children. On a personal note, I must also say that if this money were made available through vouchers, it would certainly help alleviate some of the more difficult situations in my electorate, which is not the most salubrious electorate in Australia. 
I greatly regret that the Schools Commission's brave initiative in the voucher situation generally has not been accepted so far. Indeed, there have been efforts to suppress and even silence discussion on it. There is some consolation in the fact that experiments it has recommended are to be carried out. These will provide  solid evidence  about how giving money to parents instead of directly to schools will affect the system. 
A number of government schools are to be dezoned so that parents can freely send their children to the government school of their choice. This should encourage schools to better meet local needs, such as teaching in community languages, as I hear some South Australian schools are doing, or combining beginning students in across-grade classes, for instance, years 1 , 2 and 3, as one big state school in Sydney has done. This is an excellent idea and I congratulate the Ministers concerned on encouraging it. I have a word of sympathy for the Federal Minister whose first public mention of it last October to the Australian Capital Territory Chapter of the Australian College of Education was passed over completely by the Press. Dezoning, I suggest, is a giant step in the right direction; full individual funding would go all the way. 
Another aspect of the action taken by the Schools Commission impresses me. I believe the Schools Commission has been holding seminars with Professor J. E. Coons, whose book  Education for Choice- the Case for Family Control  is recommended for study and discussion. Professor Coons was in Australia recently during his study leave and the Commission wisely used the opportunity to pick his brain. He is the best known proponent in the world of individual funding in the United States where the idea has become increasingly popular. He has prepared draft legislation, of which I have a copy, for introduction in California in 1980. No one can predict what will come of it, but the idea has been picked up and is being tossed around. Five years ago it was on the deck; it was an orphan. 
In England the Ashford experiment, which is another voucher funding experiment, will take off in a few months, no doubt with much stronger support from the new government than was displayed by the reluctant acceptance of it by the old government. 
-That is true, but only just. In the International Year of the Child it is splendid that the Government is once again making available the money that it has previously made available over the years. I wish the Government would look at the voucher scheme more seriously. I think it is the answer to a lot of our problems concerning getting value for money. It would be good if the Government did a little more than it has done so far for the child in terms of its coming into the world. I cannot let the opportunity pass without saying that we are famous for doing all we can in the International Year of the Child to promote abortion. We fund it. 
We are spending the money and saving the whales. I suppose there is some logic in that. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Tonight I would like to speak to the House about a matter which is very serious, both for the nation and for the city of Canberra. Yesterday, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  stated that most people did not appreciate how population growth has slowed down in Australia. He stated that last year there were 50,000 fewer live births in Australia than there were seven years ago. Live births peaked in 1971 and they have been declining ever since. He said that this trend had enormous implications for education, service industries and domestic consumption in the years ahead. 
I personally believe that a major contributing factor to the decline in five births in the past seven years has been the ready availability of abortion on demand since around 1972. I acknowledge that there are other factors relating to the changing composition of our population, but about 80,000 deliberate abortions in Australia each year, are having a major impact on our population statistics. Just think: In 1978, there were 225,000 live births and probably about 70,000 to 80,000 abortions where innocent, defenceless, unborn babies were torn to shreds by vacuum machines operated by our very own death merchants. One in four babies conceived in Australia is deliberately destroyed by the abortion industry. 
Most abortions in this country are carried out in the private abortion clinics where enormous profits are made by the doctors who undertake this despicable work. The three major abortion institutions are  Dr Geoffrey  Davis's Population Services International (Australasia) Ltd, in Sydney, Wainer and Bayliss's Fertility Control Clinic in Melbourne, and the Preterm Foundation in Sydney. The PSI and Preterm made an attempt to set up in Canberra during 1976 and 1977 but were prevented and have been prevented since by the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance introduced by this Government following a massive outcry against private abortion clinics in the national capital. That Ordinance prohibits private abortion clinics by confining abortions to hospitals run by the Capital Territory Health Commission. I notice that  Sir William  Knox, the Health Minister in Queensland, has announced that the Queensland Government intends to introduce similar provisions and to close down a private clinic in Brisbane which has been established by  Dr Peter  Bayliss, a co-proprietor with  Dr Bertram  Wainer of the Melbourne-based Fertility Control Clinic. 
One thing that I can say about the proabortionists is that they do not readily take no for an answer. Honourable members will remember the unsuccessful attempt made by  Senator Ryan  in the other place in November last year to disallow the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance.  Her  move was clearly defeated and I congratulate those members of the Opposition in the Senate who crossed the floor to help defeat her move. Similarly, I congratulate the Leader of the Opposition in the Queensland State Parliament who has called for the closure of the new Brisbane clinic and who, for his efforts, has had charges levelled against him by another member of the Australian Labor Party and has been abused on Australian Broadcasting Commission radio by  Senator Georges  ' secretary. 
As far as the people associated with Preterm are concerned, they are not prepared to take no for an answer. They are canvassing in this capital for support from Canberra general practitioners for an application to  Dr Elvin,  the General Superintendent of the Woden Valley Hospital for space at the hospital for an abortion clinic. I have in my possession a copy of the letter which they are sending to GPs. They state: 
We have two doctors already trained and some considering training at the Preterm Foundation in Sydney. 
Later they state: 
If you would also be interested in training at Preterm would you ring any one of us and we will contact you when the clinic goes ahead. 
They certainly sound confident. For those who do not know much about the Preterm outfit, let me enlighten them. Preterm was established in Sydney in June 1974. In 1975 Preterm had a fire which put it out of business, unfortunately only temporarily. It was not properly insured so a generous Department of Health- under a previous Federal Government, the Labor Government- gave it a grant of $80,000. This more than adequate grant paid for the fire loss of $ 1 4,290 and so in the next financial year Preterm was able to show net assets of $86,525. Earlier it had problems about registration in the Australian Capital Territory so it received assistance from another friend in the previous Labor Government. I wouldlike to quote from a frank speech by a Preterm official, but I do not have enough time tonight so I will do so on another occasion. But the evidence is quite clear that  Senator Murphy,  as Attorney-General at the time, was very much in favour of what Preterm was trying to do. 
The essential thing that I am trying to convey here tonight is that these death merchants, having once been rejected by the Government, are trying through the back door to do their foul work in the Woden Valley Hospital. I want the people of Canberra and indeed the people of Australia, through any publicity that may come from what I am saying tonight, to understand that I want this national capital free of this sort of evil which flourishes in every other capital city. I think that the day will come, if we can keep this evil out of Canberra, when people will realise what an evil abortion is, and what a dreadful thing it is doing to the population in this country and will take the steps and have the leadership in this capital to stop it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question also is directed to the Minister for Industrial Relations. Can the Minister inform the House of the result of his discussions last night with the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Sir John  Moore? 

 -Mr Speaker, the affection is almost too much for me sometimes. I am aware also of the affection of the Minister for Defence for some reporters. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to a statement that 1 1 tonnes of material has been moved from the former nuclear testing site at Maralinga? Can the Minister reconcile that report with his statement to Parliament in October last year when it was thought that only a very small amount of plutonium would have to be moved? Finally, will he assure the House of the complete safety of the move that has been made? 
-Has the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs received an application from three so-called trade union officials from Hanoi for entry permits to visit Australia this weekend? What has been the Minister's decision in relation to this request? Does the Minister recall that in August, when another group of three Hanoi trade union officials visited Australia, they contributed greatly to disharmony among Indo-Chinese refugees by claiming that all refugees who had fled their country were either former prostitutes or former millionaires? 
I do not know why the honourable member for Melbourne should be upset about this. If the Minister has approved the entry of this further group of so-called union officials, will he assure the Indo-Chinese refugees in Australia that the visit has been organised by Australian communist union officials and their fellow travellers? Will he also assure the Australian people that the visit was not organised in any way by the Australian Government and recommend that, despite whatever provocative insults are repeated by these Hanoi apologists, local refugees from communism should ignore them? 
-Following on from what was said by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  I have never asked for a visa to visit the Soviet Union, or any country associated with the Soviet Union, either in Europe or in Asia. I do not really see any justification for anybody ever wanting to go there. I think that the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence that has just been put down is plain evidence to everybody in this Parliament that going there would be a useless exercise. 
The Committee has aimed in its report on Human Rights in the Soviet Union to present an objective, factual body of material. From this information the Committee has drawn a number of conclusions which to a large extent are based on the testimony of witnesses whom the SubCommittee on Human Rights had sought due to their personal experience in the Soviet Union. Other speakers have outlined the justification for the production of the report on human rights in the Soviet Union and some of its findings. I would like to mention some additional matters because I think they are important. 
A major area in which the Soviet Union represses human rights concerns ethnic minorities. Restrictions are placed on the observance of national traditions or the contribution to national cultural development by non-Russian nationalities. Soviet authorities regard such activities as a threat. At best, active involvement in minority culture or causes is likely to result in the accusation of bourgeois nationalism; at worst it may eventually lead to imprisonment. The Soviet policies of 'Russification' seem to be a clear threat to several minority cultures within the USSR. The threat is more acute in those cases where there has been large-scale immigration of ethnic Russians, such as in Latvia, whose people and language have already been overwhelmed in the main cities. The Jewish culture and language is under considerable threat. The predominant proportion of each of the main Soviet nationalities are at least able to retain their titular language as their mother tongue. However the Jewish titular language, Yiddish, is not allowed to be taught or used in schools. There has been a great decline in the use of Yiddish, once widely used by Soviet Jews. 
Religious practice is severely restricted through government directives and the closure of synagogues. In addition to this pressure against the Jewish culture is a steady stream of government sanctioned anti-Semitic propaganda. The official Soviet reaction to the growing number of unofficial Jewish cultural activities is to label them as Zionist. This indicates a Soviet misunderstanding of the aspirations of a large proportion of its three million Jews who wish to be allowed to participate in Jewish cultural activities within the USSR rather than seek emigration. 
As emphasised in the report there is State interference in almost all religious activity in the Soviet Union. Although religious activity suffered greatly under  Mr Khrushchev,  official discrimination against religious believers is continuing, and the very survival of some religions or denominations is at stake. Religious believers are subject to harassment and imprisonment and the unregistered Baptists and members of several evangelising faiths mentioned in the report are subject to special discrimination. Allegedly some devout believers run the risk of having their children taken away from them. Some of the most severe persecution has been suffered by those faiths that are concentrated in areas where there has been an interaction of religion and a national sentiment, such as in the Western Ukraine and in Lithuania. The Jews and Buddhists have also suffered particularly severely. The Soviet Union will need to pay great attention to the aspirations of its large Muslim communities. 
Most churches suffer a shortage of clergy as ministers who die are not always replaced. Ministers and religious believers are also restricted in their movements and ceremonies. Despite the repression of religion in the USSR, and of the shortage of clergy and religious publications, there is a continuing interest in religion among a sizeable proportion of the population. Those faiths which have not been allowed by the authorities to have a central co-ordinating structure suffer special disadvantages because their scattered parishes become completely isolated and easy prey to state interference. 
A further example of repression of human rights is the restriction on a citizen's intention to permanently move to another part of the Soviet Union. This is especially so for residents in rural areas who can be prevented from leaving their collective farms to move to the cities. There are many other things associated with the religious situation which I could mention, but I know that there are other people who wish to say something about it also. 
The West cannot ensure Soviet compliance with the human rights provisions of our report or of the Final Act of the Helsinki Agreement. However these provisions do provide a set of standards towards which relevant governments can be prodded, both by individuals and by other governments. Indeed, one of the key aspects of the Agreement is that, for the first time, good relations between nations are linked explicitly with observance of internationally agreed upon principles on human rights. There have been some successful campaigns outside the Soviet Union to secure the release or emigration of imprisoned Soviet intellectuals and dissidents, or on behalf of those threatened with imprisonment. One of the most notable international efforts to counter human rights violations in the Soviet Union has been the campaign against Soviet abuse of psychiatry for political purposes. This campaign has been very successful in some cases. 
The report makes several recommendations on what the West can do to secure improved human rights in the Soviet Union. The dominant viewpoint that has been presented to the Committee by witnesses and through submissions is that the more western publicity that the causes of the dissidents receive, the better. As long as the Soviet Union seeks goodwill and economic concessions from the West, there seems to be scope for the West to achieve a more humane Soviet attitude towards its own people. Australia should insist that a regard for human rights be part of Australia's relationship with the Soviet Union. It should take the opportunities presented by bilateral discussions or negotiations between the two governments and cultural, academic and scientific exchanges between individuals to express its disapproval of Soviet breaches of human rights commitments. That is why I think it was a splendid suggestion from the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  to equip each member of the Soviet Red Army Choir that is here now with a copy of our report. The only difficulty is that most of them would not be able to understand English. It is a pity that we did not have the report translated into Russian. 
However, Australia's international position with regard to human rights will be much stronger once the Australian Government ratifies the international convenant on civil and political rights which it signed in 1973. The Soviet Union sometimes claims a lack of understanding in the West of its case on human rights. The Committee has recommended that the Australian Government suggest to the Soviet Union that it may be possible to arrange a reciprocal exchange of views in the Soviet and Australian newspapers and in other publications. That may seem to some to be an unrealistic suggestion and I doubt that the Soviet Union will take it up. However, I think the suggestion is offered in good faith. Furthermore, it is recommended that Australia seek the right to distribute informative publications in the Soviet Union, in the same way that the USSR is allowed to distribute in Australia. 
The Soviet Union of course is not the only offender regarding the violation of human rights; there are some other nations where attention needs to be directed. However, the substance of this particular report is directed to the Soviet Union and therefore that is where the original charge lies. How can the Soviet ever challenge anyone again in this country, in the United Nations or anywhere in the world whilst a document that is so carefully compiled as this particular one is in existence, and with the truth of its statements I think abundantly verified by the evidence? What the report highlights is that basic human rights of any kind at all are denied to anyone who dissents even slightly from the Soviet Government. I commend this report, as other speakers have done, to the reading of anyone who has just the remotest interest in human rights. I think the report will recommend itself not only to people in this country but also to people throughout the world. 
I wish to speak tonight about the death of a 23-months old boy whose name was Christopher Derkacz. He was admitted to the Princess Margaret Hospital, Perth, at 9.00 p.m. on 21 January 1979 with respiratory trouble and died there on 22 January at 8.5 a.m. A coroner's hearing was requested by Christopher's foster mother,  Mrs June  Stresnik. She gave evidence, substantially along the lines of the letter she wrote to the Princess Margaret Hospital, making the allegation that they had denied Christopher full medical attention for croup and other associated symptoms, as a result of which denial he died. The allegation is that the attention was denied because the child was suffering from Down's syndrome and that she was told during the course of an interview with the medical director of the Princess Margaret Hospital that it was best that the boy had been given no treatment, and that he was a problem and a charge on the community. 

 Mrs Stresnik also alleged that  Dr Godfrey,  the director of the hospital, had admitted to her that the doctor in attendance had made an error in judgment, that different treatment might have saved Christopher and that the doctor might have acted differently had he seen how much she loved Christopher. She strongly denied that the child was an epileptic, though he was so described on his PMH record card. A registered nurse from the Princess Margaret Hospital also gave evidence on the first days. She apparently made a number of admissions, including that she knew of another Down's syndrome child being refused admission to the Intensive Care Unit at Princess Margaret because of its handicap. This was crucial to later events. 

 Mr Wickins, the coroner, realised during her evidence that the nurse was placing herself in an incriminating position. He asked for her counsel to advise her, only to learn that she was not represented by counsel. The coroner stopped the inquest at that point, advised the sister not to sign her evidence, and recommended that she get legal advice and be represented by counsel. He pointed out his duty to protect witnesses. The medical director of the Princess Margaret did not deny the fact that the boy's hospital record card was marked 'Down's Syndrome- Social' and Down's Syndrome- Social Problem', but he rejected any suggestion that the hospital policy was to treat Down's syndrome patients differently from any other patients. He thought the terms 'social' and 'social problem' might mean that, with children such as this in foster care, the hospital's social work department and the Community Welfare Department could become involved. In any case, his experience was that handicapped children in foster care often caused problems and fostering could break down. 
I am running out of time, so I will go to the main points of the coroner's findings. He was unable to give a proper finding relating to the full circumstances of the boy's death and he therefore made an open finding. He found little room for criticism of the early treatment of the boy, but found evidence that Christopher's progress, treatment or the medical attention he required or received, was not recorded. He said that the hospital records contained an alarming - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  It being 1 1 o'clock, the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 10.30 a.m. tomorrow. 
-Has the Minister for Health been informed of the coroner's court findings yesterday in the case of a child death at Princess Margaret Hospital in Perth? Is the Minister aware that two doctors and five nursing staff refused to give evidence on the ground that they might incriminate themselves? Is the Minister also aware that there was no evidence of the use of standard resuscitation methods and that the coroner expressed alarm at this fact? Will the Minister please seek a full report on this matter and check that involuntary euthanasia is not being practised in hospitals subject to Commonwealth benefits? 
I have listended quite a number of times to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and I have even taken the trouble of reading his speeches. I am damned if I can find out whether he is a protectionist or a free trader. I wonder whether he knows himself. The honourable member for Adelaide, in speaking to these two Bills, occasionally collided with the matters that are on the agenda today. But short of that, we did not hear anything really important from him. The only matters in the Bills to which he referred were bags and sacks and orange juice- very appropriate things in his particular case. I will not give him any advice as to what to do with the bags and sacks, but if he were to drink the orange juice it would probably help him to get himself straight on whether he is in favour of free trade or protection. 
If the honourable member listens to me with patience he will hear what I am. I know that there are other descriptions of me around this House and they are usually unprintable, so we will not go into that. We are debating cognately the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1979 and the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1979. Most of my remarks will be associated with the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 4), a copy of which I have in my hand and which consists of 66 pages concerning protection. Let us hope that in time to come the introduction of these and other Bills of a like character will become less and less frequent. I see that the idea of less and less protection has now become of interest to no less a body than the Australian Industries Development Association. It is quite timely that there is an editorial on the question of protection in today's  Australian Financial Review.  It is not a newspaper that I often read or that I often agree with, but when I saw in it this morning something that I did agree with, I thought it would be worth while incorporating it in what I have to say. I see that the  President  of the Australian Industries Development Association,  Mr Hamer,  was reported as saying that: 
There seems to be developing a general concensus that, subject to our capacity to adjust, we must move away from our traditional high levels of protection. 
This is a most timely and appropriate statement. I think that it indicates the degree of concensus that is developing not only in this Parliament but also outside in the community. I believe that a great deal of this concensus is due to the work of the Industries Assistance Commission. I now will quote a paragraph from this morning's  Australian Financial Review.  It reads: 
The Industries Assistance Commission, however, despite its occasional naive dogmatism and an unfortunate style of argument, has remained firmly committed to the fostering of a healthy, competitive growth-oriented capitalist system in Australia. Whatever its defects, it has consistently and courageously defended the long-run interests of the system, and the welfare of the Australian community, against sectional interests and propagandists. 
I would like to pay my own personal tribute to the people in the IAC. I sometimes wonder how they have mustered the intestinal- not the institutional- fortitude to continue with their battle which in many cases has been very difficult. What is basically wrong with protection? I find that every time we debate these matters the ghost of Bert Kelly, the former honourable member for Wakefield in this Parliament, is always hovering. Indeed, whatever inspiration I have in this debate and I have had in previous debates, I owe a lot of it to Bert Kelly. With your indulgence,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will quote a few lines from his book. I think that in one paragraph of the book he might not have been very kind to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  So if you will be tolerant,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will quote a paragraph- but I will not refer to you. The book is entitled  One More Nail  and is by the Honourable Bert Kelly, the former honourable member for Wakefield. He states: 
There are many foolish people who advocate that the government should have more influence in the way industry is arranged, which industries should be encouraged to expand and which should contract To such people I give the Australian car industry as a glaring example of government intervention. One day the inevitable and painful reconstruction steps will have to be taken, and the longer they are left the more painful will they be. 
There is another aspect of industry's view of tariff protection that should be mentioned here. Whenever I attend a meeting of secondary industry leaders they spend most of the first part of the program extolling the virtues of free enterprise and how they hate government intervention. Then they fill in the rest of the time growling at the government because it isn't giving them enough tariff protection. Yet isn't the awarding of tariff protection a government intervention of a most definite kind? And even secondary industry leaders now admit that tariff protection is not costless and has to be paid for by other sectors. Yet some of them still polish their free enterprise halos as they sit in the government waiting room to get another helping of protection. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I would love to accept the suggestion of the honourable member for Perth to incorporate the whole of this book in  Hansard,  but I do not believe that you would agree to that course being followed, so I will not proceed with it. This particular argument of protection is a very old one. It goes back almost to Federation, and it is of interest to those of us who come from Western Australia. We find that we have to buy the high priced protected goods from this part of the world while it is our money and the revenue that is raised from our mines and agriculture which is keeping this country prosperous. Sometimes we think that we are hard done by and that we have a terrible load to carry. As I have mentioned before in this House, what I am talking about has been the basis of secession talk in Western Australia for many years. I believe that it has also been mentioned in Queensland. I do not know whether it is sedition to mention the word secession in this House. It is certainly a popular word in Western Australia. I now turn to a paper from 1943 from which it is worth quoting. It reads: 
It is often said that 'Protection is the "settled policy" of Australia '. This is an absurd contention. It is nearer the truth to assert that ' Protection has almost settled Australia '. 
I think that that sums up the argument rather well. I want to mention two other documents and quote a couple of passages from them. I would say this for our friend  Mr Bert  Kelly: He puts his money where his mouth is. He just did not sit here for years and years extolling the virtues of free trade to all those honourable members in the House who wanted to listen, and to those outside the House as well. He was prepared to put his money where his mouth is. He put his money into the publication of this particular book and he put his money into the establishment of what some of us here hope will be a perpetual memorial lecture in honour of his father who was also a free trader. 
I always pay for everything that I get, not like some people here. I wish to quote from a statement made by  Sir John  Crawford who gave the inaugural Stan Kelly memorial lecture last year. He said: 
The Tariff Board itself (I am talking of pre- War days) became afraid of what it called  The Tariff Habit  (perhaps today it is becoming the Quota Habit)  and  of sudden Government actions such as the effort to direct trade from Japan back to UK in 1 936. 
The sort of difficulty about which he talks is the sort of difficulty that our Government, the government before it and every other government has had. Governments get themselves tied up completely in trying to protect industries which of themselves would not live without protection. I quote from the second Stan Kelly memorial lecture given by  Mr Uhrig  who is the managing director of a firm in Adelaide from which place the honourable member who interjected before comes. This sums up quite a lot in this particular argument. He stated: 
For fifteen years or more we have been engaged in a national debate on the question of what should be done about our manufacturing industry and its structure. This long running discussion has been punctuated by various inquiries and reports leading up to the recent publication of the Crawford report on structural adjustment. It seems to me that now, the debate must be considered to have been exhausted. Everything that can be said has been said on subjects like tariffs and the need for industry to become export oriented. The community has become bored with the whole thing. All of this seems to be against a background of emerging consensus that we will be better off with freer trade and an outward-looking manufacturing industry if we can only find a way to do it without too much social disruption. 
On that particular point I am sure that I express the consensus of my friends from Western Australia, who are around me, and of  Mr Bert  Kelly, when I say that not a single one of us wants to drive a bulldozer through the wall of tariff protection. We understand social disruption. All that we want is for our Government to take just a few courses of bricks off the top of the tariff wall. 
I see that my friend the honourable member for Moore is assisting me. In that way we can move to a point where there will be reasonable competition and we can get on with running the country in an economic way. Now my own basic premises on these matters are that the Australian economy will derive its strength in the future- as it has in the past- from its ability to trade with the rest of the world. In future we must rely on trade to sustain improvements in living standards. Policies which have protected sections of our manufacturing industry have had a significant bearing on Australia's fall in living standards, relative to other industrialised countries. A new package of policies featuring direct and tax based incentives for exporters and reduced protection should replace current inward looking policies for manufacturing. The objectives should be an economy more responsive to world market signals and capable of achieving catch-up growth to bring it back into line with other developed countries. The Government must take a less interventionist role in the Australian economy, allowing it to operate more according to the free market. Suggestions made here will allow the Government to project broad goals to the business community, while avoiding the disadvantages of piecemeal intervention. The result will be a more responsive, self-reliant and resilient private enterprise sector. 
B"t an important trading role could and should remain for manufacturers if the cost advantages deriving from economies of scale, which are achievable in this country, can be captured. This involves looking upon the world as the major market from which costs must be recovered, with Australia becoming a marginal cost segment of it. Preliminary processing of primary products is the most likely source of this kind of trade growth. Relatively high technology and specialised manufactured goods, provide a different opportunity relying on a smaller production base. 
Now Australian manufacturing has not reached other advanced economies in a degree to which it has developed trade. A comparison of trade performance by manufacturing industries in Australia, Canada, France and West Germany suggests that the Australian manufacturing industry imports less of total domestic supply and exports less of total production than the other countries. Intra-industry trade figures, which I think provide a measure of the degree of specialisation amongst firms within industries, support the contention that domestic production is scattered across a wide range of import competing industries and has not concentrated on lifting export performance. An examination of statistics for individual industries adds further evidence. Possibly the most important fact to emerge from this is the particularly poor performance of Australian manufacturing in relation to exports. Amongst other factors this no doubt reflects high inward costs and inward looking attitudes which have already been mentioned. 
Another explanation for poor productivity performance is that inputs of two factors of production- labour and capital- increased too rapidly for a small and growing economy to raise productivity measures, such as output per man, other than slowly. For example, the labour force grew quickly under the influence of immigration and increased participation rates. Also, substantial capital investment occurred in transport and communications during the 1950s and 1960s. So that whilst investment levels may not have appeared unduly low the nature of investment was important. Furthermore, in 1971-72 industrial research and development expenditure in Australia was estimated at slightly less than two per cent of the manufacturing sector's contribution to the gross domestic product. Corresponding ratios for Britain and the United States of America appeared to be around five per cent, and for Canada and Sweden about two to three per cent. 
Other reasons could be advanced such as ineffective managerial performance, opposition to change from the trade union movement, insular attitudes which resulted in insufficient consideration of the potential benefits of economy of scale arising from exports, and a lack of adaptability to change. Each reason reflects social conservatism and rigidity of thinking. The creation of protective structures around sections of the Australian economy seems both to have resulted from and to have exacerbated these tendencies. Lack of exposure to international competition, with its concomitant pressures to adapt and innovate, has had profound though not always quantifiable effects on our industrial development. 
An indication of this lack of exposure was given in some tables published in the Industries Assistance Commission annual report for 1974-75. The report compared average tariffs on total and most favoured nations imports at 1970, and ranked Australia as the most protected country, apart from New Zealand, in a group of 18 industralised countries. This situation of high average tariff rates is further compounded as shown by evidence in the same IAC report. Whilst only about 3 per cent of world imports incurred duties greater than 20 per cent, in Australia 25 per cent of imports incurred tariffs greater than 20 per cent with a significant proportion incurring tariffs over 50 per cent. This is a very serious situation. The result for the economy as a whole has been a continuing reliance on mining and agricultural exports and a stagnation of the share of manufacturing exports in total. Devising a strategy to overcome this problem, I admit, is very difficult. We are fortunate that we have such tremendous physical resources in Australia. If we were like the Japanese and entirely dependent on manufacturing industry, I doubt that we would be sitting as comfortably in this Parliament as we are today. 
Because we have these resources we are a significant force in world trade in a wide array of mineral and agricultural products; which we are all familiar with and which I think were mentioned by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Adelaide. Inevitably demand for these commodities will rise as developing countries raise their per capita incomes and Australia's position will strengthen as alternative sources- especially of minerals and energy- are utilised. Supporting these resource stocks are other factors. There is a relatively well developed infrastructure. The Australian labour force is generally well educated and managerial and labour skills are available. Domestic savings, together with overseas borrowings and equity investment, should provide the capital necessary to finance development of resources and of high growth in the economy generally. In particular, foreign capital will continue to be attracted to Australia over the long term because of Australia's political and social stability and its physical resource endowment. 
It seems to me that a taxation policy which could provide a stimulus to growth by allowing a rapid depreciation of industrial investment would also help. Taxation and other incentives to export oriented industries could be a much more significant factor in the strategy than action to reduce tariffs and other protective structure. I believe it is important that the emphasis be on a teaching kind of adjustment rather than a forceful kind. At the very least it is imperative that this kind of policy be implemented alongside any action on tariffs. 
The changes which could be expected to flow from this new approach can be gauged to some degree. Increased productivity could be expected and the share of gross domestic product taken up by the mining and manufacturing sectors would probably rise. Resources would tend to move away from industries which are currently highly protected into industries which could achieve higher growth and lower unit costs because of greater export volumes. A higher rate of growth would make manpower scarcer for labourintensive functions and may provide incentives to rationalise employment in the services sector. It seems to me that if we do just a few of the things that I have outlined, we will be doing away with protection gradually and in a sensible way which is least disruptive. We would then move into a new stage of prosperity for all industry in Australia. 
I wish to raise a matter about which I spoke last night during the adjournment debate. The short synopsis is that a coroner's inquiry was held into the death at the Princess Margaret Hospital, Perth, of a Down's syndrome child who was admitted suffering from respiratory trouble. Before I come to the coroner's findings, I point out that it was acknowledged by the director of the Princess Margaret Hospital that the dead boy's card was marked 'No further treatment' and further 'No resuscitation, No ECM, No intubation'. These are standard procedures to revive people with respiratory trouble and they are used in almost every case, as far as I can ascertain. However, they were not used in this case. There was no evidence of when and by whom the notes to which I have referred were made on the boy's card. The coroner found this note on the card alarming, and that is the word he used. 

 Dr Godfrey, who is the director of the Princess Margaret Hospital, had to admit that there was no evidence of any firm diagnosis of epilepsy in this child, although on his Princess Margaret Hospital record card he was described as having epileptic fits. Counsel for the foster mother tried to get  Dr Godfrey  to admit that he had told  Mrs Stresnik,  the foster mother, that the boy was better off dead, that it was best that they did not give him treatment, et cetera. The doctor insisted that he did not recall the details of the long interview he had had with the foster parents after the boy's death. However, he did think it possible that he had tried to comfort them by pointing out the problems the boy had had and would have had. He had found that that approach often helped other bereaved parents of Down's syndrome and handicapped children.  Dr Godfrey  also denied saying that one of the doctors had made an error in judgment. 
The point I make now is that at the coroner's inquiry two doctors and five nursing staff elected not to give evidence. Apparently that is the common law right in the cornoners courts in Western Australia. On his own admission, the coroner reluctantly ruled that he had to accept that in such matters a coroner's court must operate under the common law rather than under the Evidence Act. However, in closing the inquest and reserving his findings, he gave his strong view that he did not like it, that it was unsatisfactory, and that a coroner's inquest should not be thwarted and forestalled in such a way. He said that he would recommend immediately to the State Attorney-General that the law be changed to bring coroners' inquiries under section 1 1 of the Evidence Act of Western Australia, which would oblige witnesses to give evidence. 
I will repeat the main points of his findings, which I outlined last night. The coroner was unable to make a proper finding regarding the full circumstances of Christopher's death because of lack of evidence. He therefore made an open finding. He found little room for criticism of the early treatment of the boy. He found little evidence that Christopher's progress, treatment, or the medical attention he required or received had been recorded. He said that the hospital records had contained an alarming note: 'No resuscitation. No ECM. No intubation'. I repeat that on the last day of the inquiry two doctors and five nursing staff refused to give evidence on the ground that they might incriminate themselves. I am trying to speak for this child. I am trying to speak for his foster parents. 
-The child was 23 months old. I am concerned because this sort of thing has been going on. I am concerned because I know that the massive abortion rate in this country has conditioned the Australian people to accept this sort of thing. I wonder whether it is not true that Hitler has finally won, that he may have lost the war but won the philosophical battle. I would hate to think that this country will have this or any other sort of horror going on. I hope that this Government will do something about it. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. In answer to a previous question, the Minister has, I think, acknowledged the Commonwealth Government's interest in all patients in public hospitals throughout Australia. Has the Minister received any reports of the coroner's inquiry into the death of the child Christopher Derkacz at the Princess Margaret Hospital in Perth about which I inquired last week? Has the Minister seen Press reports of evidence of the paediatric registrar of the Princess Margaret Hospital, a  Dr Clothier,  who, referring to some Down's syndrome children and their condition, said 'and so the child is allowed to pass away'? Has the Minister seen Press reports that  Dr Fry,  the Medical Director at the Princess Margaret Hospital, has been proclaiming to all parents of handicapped children that the full facilities of the hospital have been and always are available to handicapped children? Can the Minister, bearing in mind the first part of the question, reconcile these two statements? 
