I wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to  statements made by the Prime Minister and other Government speakers during the recent Senate election campaign in respect of the proposal to set up a rural industries board as a first step towards rendering urgent assistance to Australia's primary industries. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Government has been able to take any steps in the direction of setting up this urgently needed body? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry advise the Senate whether any research is presently being conducted by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in regard to the control or utilisation of the noxious weed known as heliotrope? I am not too sure of the Latin name; I think it is heliotropium Europaeum Is it a fact that primary producers find this weed hard to eradicate, attractive to sheep and fatal over 2 seasons? Is it a fact that earlier research on this problem by the CSIRO has been unsuccessful? Is the Minister aware that a  Mr Lester  Mitchell of Hopetoun in Victoria has conducted extensive and successful research on this problem and that he has been able actually to pasture sheep safely upon the weed by administering a cobalt bullet and grinder, at a cost of about 15c per head? If the CSIRO has been unable to solve this problem, will the Minister direct its attention to the work of  Mr Mitchell? 
I support the Bill and I oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
No,  it is not. 
Any assistance that you want to give will be accepted readily. While expressing those views, I think the Senate is indebted to  Senator McClelland  for his thoughtful contribution to the debate. Although I must break a lance with him on a number of points, I feel that his thoughtful contribution to this fairly complex subject was something for which the Senate should be thankful. I support his remarks about my former colleagues of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. In the 2 years that 1 was privileged to serve with them I came to know and to respect their dedication to the tremendous task of directing the bulk of Australia's television and radio programmes. For good or for ill, regardless of what cynics and sceptics might say, 87 per cent of viewers - I am not quite sure of the percentage of listeners to radio programmes - watch the commercial channels - the channels for which the Broadcasting Control Board is responsible. 
It is true that in another place the Control Board has been criticised fairly extensively and fairly heavily - I think unfairly. As  Senator McClelland  said, the  Chairman, Mr Myles  Wright, has a knowledge of the industry unrivalled by anybody. The Vice-Chairman,  Mr Donovan,  is a senior public servant whose long years of service in this industry have made him an intellectual genius in the very difficult and complex task of unravelling interlocking company directorates and interlocking company shareholdings. The third permanent member of the Board is  Mr McDonald,  a former Post Office engineer, with whom I was privileged to work in the development of Navy radar equipment and whose knowledge of medium frequency transmitters and practice is. I think, probably unique in the Commonwealth. The membership of the Board is completed by adding the distinguished educational authority,  Dr Radford.  I suppose it seems almost an anticlimax to add my name to the names of such distinguished personnel. 
Do not be so enthusiastic about that. Until a month or so ago I was a member of the Board. The Board has a fairly thankless task. If things go well, the licensees do them off their own bat. If things go wrong, they blame the Control Board. In my younger and more exuberant days I once said that the Broadcasting Control Board could not run a milk bar. I do not resile from the statement that I made at that time because of the circumstances in which it was made, but I take this opportunity to pay a tribute to the Control Board and to the dedication and ability with which it directs itself to its tasks. My belief is that it is perhaps the most dedicated- 
If you cannot beat them, join them. In my view, the Board is one of the most dedicated and competent statutory bodies in the Commonwealth. It is misunderstood frequently and criticised frequently. Sometimes it is blamed for the programmes on the Australian Broadcasting Commission network, over which it has no jurisdiction. Some of its failings are not of its own making. As the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  would be well aware, the decision in the boilermakers' case in 1953 makes it impossible at the moment for an administrative body to have any judicial power. Hence the Board's powers over licensees are either too great, that is, it can cancel a licence, or too little, that is, it can deliver a reprimand. If the legal geniuses - or genii - were able to work out some system by which the Board, in the enforcement of its standards, had a moderate power to fine, with provision for appeal to the courts, I think its machinery provisions would be improved greatly. 
The philosophy behind the Bill. I think, appeals to all honourable senators. In fact, in another capacity, I had the privilege of taking part in the discussions before the Bill actually reached this place. I think that if the Senate passes the Bill it will be very well received by the people who have to administer it. I am not brash enough to intrude into those areas concerned with accountancy, into the mystical realm of figures. I content myself by saying that anything which simplifies, regularises and makes more certain the financial accounting procedures of any statutory body is to be commended. Over the years the Government has been at some pains to prevent the ownership and control of radio and television licences from falling into too few hands - from becoming the plaything of powerful monopolies. 1 express no view as to how successful these endeavours have been, bill il seems to me extremely desirable that, whatever the position may have been before 1964, the control of mass media should be as widely distributed as possible. The ownership of these valuable licences should be controlled carefully. 
Current legislation says that no company shall be in a position to control more than 2 television licences or 8 radio licences. I would have been quite happy to see these maxima halved. Control is defined in the parent Act as 15 per cent and a prescribed interest is set out as 5 per cent. I borrow a word from Mark Antony and Octavius. The word is 'proscribed'. Whilst I do not deny that originally there were difficulties in setting up this tremendous modern, jet age industry, I believe that every effort has to be made to prevent the control of mass media falling into too few hands. Hence it is h:,rd to argue against the proposition that when trustees of a staff superannuation fund are directors of the parent company they are not in effective control of the fund and its holdings. Accordingly, this means of circumscribing the Act must be slopped. 
However, 1 oppose the Opposition amendment on the operative date, for 2 reasons. Firstly, in my view, retrospectivity, except in special circumstances, is repugnant to the concept of natural justice. Secondly, and perhaps more practically, retrospectivity to the date in the Opposition amendment, would not have stopped any dealings which should not have been prevented anyhow. Therefore it seems to me that the date set out in the Bill, the date of the announcement made by the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme),  should be the operative date. Changing the date would nol have prevented anything which should not have been prevented - for example, the Fairfax foray. The date in the Bill, the date on which the announcement was made, has successfully intercepted the Melbourne 'Herald' venture. On monopolies and quasi monopolies, the Aus tralian Labor Party is in no position to cast the first stone. Ringed around Australia is a series of powerful radio transmitters which continuously feed out the old, worn out discredited and useless shibboleths of Labor Socialist propaganda. The licence of 3K.Z Melbourne is held by the Industrial Printing and Publishing Co. Ltd on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. One does not have to be Mandrake to know that that licence is worth a mint. 
 Yes, I can. I am coming to that. I am glad that  Senator Georges  brought up this point. The 'Australian Financial Review' reported that the net profit to the Labor Party last year from the operations of 3KZ was SI 56.000. Real money! 
 The year before - this will really slay honourable senators - it was $247,000. I am prepared to concede that nothing is too good for the representatives of the downtrodden and oppressed masses, but a net profit of 5247,000 is really laying it on a little too thick. 
 It is true to say that the socialists are really the most successful capitalists. Let us have a look at the operations of some of the other stations. 
 Let me finish the list I have in front of me and then 1 will get around to it. I shall deal only with the transmitters with which I am personally familiar. The next one is 2KY Sydney. You could not buy that station with hay. Then there is 2HD Newcastle. All of these stations are pouring our socialist nonsense day in and day out. 
 I turn now to Adelaide. Here we have an amalgam in which a prescribed interest is held in SKA by the 
Labor Party and the Methodist Church. I do not express any comment on the nexus or the association: I wish merely to point out that a prescribed interest is held in 5KA by the Labor Party. The next one on the list is 4KQ Brisbane. Our rather sizeable continent has been ringed with powerful radio transmitters controlled by the Australian Labor Party. I will not accept that radio has lost its impact and influence because it has not. 
 I am coming to Perth now. The struggling masses in Perth were represented by 6KY and 6NA. It is strange- 
They were. These 2 stations were not held in the interests of vested capitalists; they were held by the representatives of the workers before being sold out for a mint. They are no longer owned by the Labor Party, but I feel sure that the capital derived from them played a minor part in recent publicity in Western Australia which was possibly effective, although I hope not. 
1 am unable to say what the Australian Labor Party's interests are in the field of television because they are fairly wide, diverse and obscure. If it has had something good coming up in the past it has often been fairly well-conceived. Most of the things to which 1 have been directing the attention of the Senate were reported in the 'Financial Review' during the past few months. Of course, matters relating to profits which have as many noughts on them as those which the Labor Party's stations have been making are well worth reporting. I feel quite sure that some of the directors of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd would not mind having a finger in some of the radio transmitters owned by the Australian Labor Party. 
 I do not challenge that proposition. All that I am saying is that it is a little bit rugged for distinguished socialists opposite to get up and talk about the vested interests of the vast monopolies when they themselves operate stations with audiences running into millions. I would be grateful if honourable senators opposite could direct my attention towards one channel which is owned by the capitalist oppressors. 
 I feel,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that this jesting is not in order in this serious debate. I know that honourable senators opposite are not serious about the propositions they have put forward, but I feel that it is only right and proper that as I have given the date, time, place, chapter and verse of these matters my remarks should be at least recorded. 
I will get around to that later. I have mentioned these matters just to show the hard type of bargain the socialist democrats enforce. After they got $247,000 a year from the downtrodden and oppressed company with operates 3KZ, Val Morgan and Sons Pty Ltd, they charged $1,000 a year for the rental of their aerial field. Can honourable senators imagine a capitalist outfit doing that? 
All right. I will leave that matter. Perhaps I can deal with it on some other occasion. 
 I will come round to that one, too. I have only a few mon.utes and there is a matter of some significance to which I wish to direct the attention of the Senate. 
 I am not allowed to disclose any of the Control Board's figures. 
Everything I have disclosed has  beeB  reported in the 'Financial Review',  so  there is no problem about that matter, h is in the Parliamentary library. 
That is not my problem. Perhaps  the  honourable senator had better  see  Max Newton or somebody else. Eleven years ago - on 31st May 1960-1  had  the privilege of moving an amendment In this chamber to the Broadcasting and Television Bill that was designed to provide a qualified privilege to commercial licensees during an election period in respect  of  the broadcasting of political matter. I forget the precise section of the Act, 11 was either section 112, 114 or 1.16. I think it was section 116. It provides that  if  a licensee sells time on his commercial station  to  one political party he must supply the same amount of time at the same price to any other political party which is represented in the Parliament for which the election is being held. 
No, it has to be the same amount of time and at the same price. Everything has to be equated as far as possible. This can present difficulties. In fact it has presented certain difficulties over the years, especially to country broadcasting stations. Having sold a quarter of an hour or whatever it is to a particular party a station must by law provide a similar amount  of  rime to other parties which are represented. For reasons which seem good lo the commercial operators - I will not analyse them in detail at this time - they have been acutely conscious of the law of libel and defamation in this regard, and many  of  them have refrained from letting out their station time to any of the parties because  of  this requirement. I hope that al some time in the future - tonight is not the opportune time to go into the detail of  it -  the Government will have another look at this. For reasons which completely escaped me at the time, my amendment was defeated. I suggest  to 

 Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin, who in this chamber represents the PostmasterGeneral, thai some consideration be given to the problem posed by actions for defamation because it has been agitating the minds of commercial licensees in this country. 
No, I want qualified privilege. There is a vast difference. I do not believe in immunity - that it is ridiculous - but qualified privilege is another matter. With all the modesty I can summon 1 might say that I have had some experience in libel actions against broadcasting stations and, since the actions which 1 took were eminently successful, I feel that the licensees on the receiving end of this kind of legal process have just reason for asking that their proposition be examined by the Government. I hope that at some time in the future the Government will get around to doing so. 
 I did not refer at any time to a refusal by 3KZ to accept advertising, but accuracy has never been one of  Senator Kennelly's  attributes. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  -  Senator Hannan  is entitled to explain himself in respect of the. matter on which he claims to have been misrepresented. I call  Senator Hannan. 
I hope 1 can be heard through the interference.  Senator Kennelly  said that last' night 1 had criticised 3KZ for refusing to accept a Liberal Party advertisement. I made -no such reference in my speech. As to his Other low down implications, which could come only from a person of his type, the information I used is available from other sources. 
4 will not withdraw,  Mr Deputy President. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Will " you withdraw.  Senator Hannan? 
 I am prepared to make a conditional withdrawal, on the condition that  Senator Kennelly  withdraws the words 'low down' which he used in his speech. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Willesee  will be seated. 
Wright would certainly be in order if you had not already given your decision,  Mr Deputy President.  You have given your decision that  Senator Hannan  withdraw. It is long standing practice that a withdrawal is always made without equivocation. Any argument as to whether you are correct in your judgment cannot now be entertained as you have given your decision. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - I asked  Senator Hannan  whether he would withdraw. 
In deference to you,  Sir, I  withdraw. 
 I remind the Senate that I have asked for a withdrawal. 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, ls it a fact that last weekend the Australian Broadcasting Commission programme 'Four Corners' carried a 20-minute segment which was virtually a free advertisement for a retail store in Melbourne which is quaintly titled Bourkes-ACTU? I do not cavil at competition, but does the Minister know whether this generous coverage was due to the claim of Bourkes-ACTU that it would supply retail goods more cheaply  than any other store or was it merely designed to  turn  Mr Hawke  and his fellow Socialists into little capitalists? If the former supposition is correct, in view of the fact that yesterday a large Bourke Street emporium, which shall be nameless, published an advertisement in respect of prices similar to the claim of Bourkes-ACTU, can we assume that this emporium, the name of which is ascertainable, will likewise be given  20  minutes free advertising on the ABC? 
I think  Senator Murphy's  solicitude in this matter does him credit, but he knows better than I do of very many instances of court procedures in which a notice of appeal is in fact treated as the appeal itself.  Senator Murphy  knows from his own experience in the High Court that it is quite customary on a hearing of an application for leave to appeal for the appeal itself to bc heard. 
 Wait a moment. I gave you a very free hearing.  Senator Murphy  knows that that is a common practice in legal circles. I go further and say that these proceedings would normally be heard in courts of petty sessions, magistrates' courts or the equivalent courts in other States, known by different names. At present in Victoria there are certain provisions in respect of re-hearings. On an application for re-hearing the law states that the actual re-hearing may take place on the day on which a re-hearing is granted. So all this nonsense about 2 application 's rather irrelevant. On the point of natural justice, as I understand the proposed amendment a defendant has an absolute right lo have the conviction set aside if within 2 years he satisfies the conditions set out in sub-section 4 of proposed section 132a. It seems only reasonable that after a lapse of 2 years some form of onus should bc placed upon an applicant to establish his bona fides. The legislation contains very generous provisions for rehearing and in the circumstances  Senator Murphy  seems to me to be straining at gnats and swallowing a camel in pursuing the line he has taken. I support the proposed amendment. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Treasurer been drawn to a somewhat alarming report in this morning's Press that for economic reasons police overtime has been cut out in Victoria and that as a result some police stations are being closed and certain necessary police duties restricted? In view of the cardinal importance to the community of a properly paid and efficient police force, will the Minister consult with the Victorian Government and perhaps consider action under section 96 or whatever may be the correct constitutional provision to enable the emergency to be met? 
I would have thought that decisions on the administration of the Victorian Police Force rest exclusively and entirely with the Victorian Government. I do not think there would be any mileage to be gained or any marks to be earned by the Commonwealth intervening and telling the Victorian Government how to conduct its affairs - indeed the administration of a particular department. Frankly, I think we have to accept that the Victorian Government has taken that decision after using its judgment. 
-- I rise very briefly to say that 1 support the general principles  of  the Bill.  Senator McManus  is to be commended for directing the attention of the Senate to this challenge to constituted decency and authority as represented  in  the printed garbage which is described as 'Woroni'. 1 agree with the attitude taken by my colleague  Senator Prowse.  It. is right and proper that we appreciate that however important and however significant a university and university students may be in the community, they are not above the law. They are not sacrosanct and they are just as liable to the law as is anyone else. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was concluding my remarks on this Bill. If the Senate adopts the views outlined by  Senator Prowse  it will enable this chamber to indicate to the university authorities how seriously it views this open challenge to decency and integrity. It is preferable that the university authorities should cope with these situations, provided that they have the will and the intestinal fortitude to do so. I do not intend to move an amendment at this stage, but I make the suggestion that at some time when clause  3  is being debated the Government might see fit to incorporate in the clause a definition of the word student'. In the past few years in Australia student' has covered not only a multitude of sins - it is like 'charity'  in  that respect - but also a multitude of occupations. 
In many instances the people who cause the sort of trouble which is reflected in the type of journalism that appears in 'Woroni' are not genuine students enrolled in a genuine course. I know  of one  case where a student was undertaking a part time course at the Brisbane University and, when a certain political leader  was  addressing the students, this young gentleman made a few remarks. A few weeks later when the same political leader was speaking at the Melbourne University the same alleged student was present causing such trouble as he could. In the circumstances I do not think it would bc beyond the wit of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who represents the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Bowen)  in this chamber, to devise some form of expression or definition which would ensure that 'student' meant a genuine student. 
I understand that we are still examining  the 
Bill  as a  whole. I wish to return to  Senator Prowse's  bete noir - proposed paragraphs (ja)  and  (1) of section 11 which  are  provided for in clause 3. I align myself with the attitude he has taken. I only wish I could express my view on the subject  as  well as he has. I believe the amendment which has been moved by  Senator McManus  has greatly ameliorated the position inasmuch as it has indicated to  the  relevant authorities the seriousness with which this chamber views the matter.. However, at the risk of trying the patience and forbearance of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who is in charge of the Bill, I add my request  that he  reconsider the suspension of proposed paragraphs (ja), (k) and (1) of section 11. I do not intend to put forward any amendment, as I have indicated to the Minister. I know that the clause will be carried on the voices but I think I should make known my personal point of view. Whilst I am on my feet I ask the Minister if he is able to say whether the Student Association receives any financial assistance from the University authorities which goes towards the publication of the journal 'Woroni'. 
 I wish to direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 1 am not quite sure which department of the Commonwealth covers the matter. I ask: Which department of th.2 Commonwealth owns and operates the Civil Defence School at Macedon in Victoria? For what period of the year is the school operative? What numbers and types of personnel are attached to the establishment? ls the school partially selfsupporting or not? If not, could the Senate be advised of the cost of operating the school? 

 Senator Si» KENNETH ANDERSONI think I should ask the honourable senator to put his question on notice so that I can obtain a precise answer for him. There is some doubt in my mind concerning the relevant department. It is certainly not the department under my jurisdiction. I will provide an answer tomorrow. 
Has . the attention of the Minister representing, the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to recent Press reports indicating that 3 Toronto scientists have discovered a method of making bricks out of wheat and that they could build an average, sized house from 20 bushels of wheat . or ' approximately 1,600 loaves of bread? If this is correct and if we are unable to. market our full wheat production or supply hunger ridden countries would this not be a means of using our surplus production and, at the same time, reducing the cost of housing since the cost of this process is said to be less than one-third the cost of other materials? Will the Minister have inquiries made to ascertain whether despite any patent royalties some benefits could be secured under this process for Australian farmers and Australian home owners? 
 I listened with great interest to the remarks of my friend  Senator Douglas  McClelland but I do not propose to traverse his entire speech as 1 did not hear the whole of it. 1 simply say this. I was one of 5 men who helped to fix the Australian quota and I say categorically that no pressure from any company, from any producer or from any organisation was brought to bear upon me or to my knowledge on any other member of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The quotas that were fixed were fixed after hearing representatives of production houses, the licensees, Actors Equity - of which T was at that time and still am a member - and every section of the broadcasting and television industry. 1 know we are dealing with television but every section of the industry, including the writers, were given an opportunity to present their case. I merely want to say that if  Senator Douglas  McClelland had any evidence of malpractice in this industry I would cheerfully join him in hunting it down because this is a most important and significant industry and, as he says, it employs large numbers of Australians. 
I share his regret that the 'In Melbourne Tonight' programme, which as he said employed 100 to 120 Australians, was discontinued by Channel 9. The reason given by the company's chairman of directors was that the ratings for the programme, which had run since 1956  -  to some extent the television channels are the slaves of the ratings - had dropped to 56 per cent of what they were 2 years ago. I am not justifying the discontinuance; I am merely mentioning the reason given by the  chairman  of directors. I believe that the Senate has reason to be grateful to  Senator 
Douglas McClelland for his careful watch on the transgressions - real and, might I say, in some cases imaginary - of the licensees and the operatives in this very important industry. I look forward to traversing, on a future occasion perhaps, some of the matters he has raised this evening. 
I do not wish to detain the Senate at this stage of the proceedings but earlier I was a little slow in rising and missed the opportunity to refer to the splendid work done by  Senator Greenwood.  I  have  had the opportunity of reading some of the Press  reports about the work of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources. One cannot fail to be impressed by the precise and careful examination which the  chairman  and his Committee have made of the matters placed before them. I am not going to indicate the way I propose to vote on the motion moved by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  I appreciate the point raised by my friend  Senator Cant,  who indicated that the person to be appointed to the Committee has not had the benefit of listening to the evidence and of taking part in the preparation of the draft report. Without expressing a view one way or another,  Mr Deputy President,  I want to say that  Senator Cant's  submissions have had at least a mild impression upon me personally and I must, of necessity, give them some consideration. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Does the Minister representing the Treasurer agree that many requests have been made over the years by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber for the lifting of payroll tax on municipal authorities. Having regard particularly to the tremendous impact of the 6 per cent increase in wages and salaries payable by municipal authorities, will the Government consider reviewing this matter with the possibility of freeing the semigovernmental authorities from the impost of payroll tax? As the Minister will appreciate, the  21  per cent payable is added lo the 6 per cent wage increase. 
This clearly is a question of Government policy. Therefore all I can say is that I shall refer the question. 
 Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that there is some apprehension among pig producers in this country in respect of the proposed legislation covering a compulsory levy? Is it correct that the views already submitted to the Government are largely those of stud pig breeders who own only 2 per cent of the nation's pigs? Will the Minister give an assurance that the proposed legislation will not become law unless it is requested after a democratically conducted poll among Australian pig producers? 
Before dealing with the farrago of nonsense to which the Senate has just been subjected I think it might be helpful if I referred to section 120 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia. It might ease any doubts which  Senator Cavanagh  may have about the responsibility of the State of South Australia to deal with people who offend against Commonwealth laws. Section 1 20 states:  120. Every State shall make provision for the detention in its prisons of persons accused or convicted of offences against the laws of the Commonwealth, and for the punishment of persons convicted of such offences, and the Parliament of the Commonwealth may make laws to give effect to this provision. 
My recollection of statements by the Premier of Western Australia is that he obviously regards himself as bound by that provision. It may well be that I am doing  Mr Tonkin  an injury, but 1 have never read any statement by  Mr Tonkin  which indicates that he is opposed to the national service legislation. 
This is a serious debate. If the honourable senator is going to act the goat I suggest he go outside. I watched with considerable interest the first interview with  Mr Tonkin  on television. He gave what I regarded as rational, sane, intelligent answers to his interviewer. He gave not the slightest suggestion that he was opposed to the defence of this nation or to the national service legislation. Maybe I missed some statement that he made. I merely mention that situation in passing. For myself and probably for some other people I take grave exception to 

 Senator Cavanagh's quasi blasphemous association of Charles Martin with Christ. It is absolute rubbish. Whenever honourable senators are stuck with a difficult proposition they try to identify the victim or the person whom they are championing with the person of Christ. 
I shall go this far: Christ was a carpenter and apparently so was Martin. To Christian people that is a quasi-blasphemous association and one to which I take grave exception. I feel sure many other people while perhaps not possessing the very high Christian principles enunciated by  Senator Cavanagh  also take exception to this quasi-blasphemous association. If we are going to get into a theological argument as developed by  Senator Cavanagh,  I would be quite happy to accommodate him at any time. 
I shall come to that in a moment. Blasphemy is bad enough at any time, but when  Senator Cavanagh  picks Holy Week to intrude this rubbish into the Senate I take even greater exception. If he looks at the Gospel of St Luke which was read in the churches last Sunday he will find that Christ was saying to his Apostles: 'If you do not have a sword sell you cloak and buy one'. It is quite obvious that the honourable senators and St Luke are complete strangers. 
I am not blasphemous enough to associate myself with Christ, but some honourable senators are. I at least know the Gospel of St Luke,  Senator Turnbull. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! 1 ask the honourable senator to come back to the matter immediately before the Chamber. 
I have been attempting to deal with the nonsense we have heard already.. I am going to attempt to traverse some of the strange and quaint allegations that  Senator Cavanagh  has put before the Senate. Speaking in the earlier part of the debate on this matter he said:  lt was only in 1968, after the Tei offensive, that the then Prime Minister' stated that it was impossible to have a partial withdrawal of our troops in Vietnam - it had to be one out, all out - because it would he dangerous to the small force which Australia had in Vietnam to withdraw some of the troops. 
He then went on to say. 
Although this risk still remains, we find that some of the supporting troops of our forces in Vietnam are to be withdrawn. 
The truth of the mailer is that the same position does not obtain as at the time of the Tet offensive. Three years ago very many of the roads in Vietnam were impassable at night, large areas of the country were under the control of Communist thugs and the central government of Vietnam was working its way out so that it could take over and control, as it does now, 95 per cent of the area of that unhappy country. That is the real crux of the situation explaining the withdrawal and it appears, of course, in a statement by the Prime Minister. Progress is being made with Viemamisation. Vietnamisation is a success. That is the reason why, fortunately, we are able to withdraw 1,000 of our troops without endangering the remaining forces. 1 notice, too, that  Senator Cavanagh  alleges that we are trying to suppress a small country of some 1 1 million people; that we have used 3 times the weight of bombs which we used in the First World War. 
lust a moment. Part of it may be, I do not know. 
-If you keep quiet and listen you may learn something. The point is that North Vietnam is a country with many more people than 1 1 million. If the rest of the honourable senator's statement is no more accurate than that, how much weight can be attached to it? The population of North Vietnam is somewhere between 18.5 mil/ion and 19 million people, not 1 1 million. So far as the bombing is concerned, even when the Americans were unloading a fairly heavy weight of bombs. 95 per cent of what normally would be regarded as military targets were off limits. 1 will give an example and I add that f disagree greatly with this particular philosophy. Russian, Polish and some Liberian chartered British ships were observed by the Seventh Fleet to be entering the port of Haiphong. They were carrying rockets and other missiles for the war machine in Hanoi. They were observed entering but there was no bombing. The missiles were observed to be unloaded but there was no bombing. They were observed while being placed in revetments so that they could be used to shoot down aircraft. Again there was no bombing. Once the revetments were completed and missiles were in a position to be fired, permission was given to bomb them. If that is not sheer lunacy. I do not want to know what is. I dissociate myself completely from that aspect of the situation. 
I notice, too, that the honourable senator alleges that the American ground forces have not captured nearly enough territory to make peace possible. Inasmuch as the Government of Saigon is in practical occupation of roughly 95 per cent of the territory of South Vietnam, it is difficult to visualise how much country the honourable senator thinks should be occupied by the Saigon Government in order to make peace. He said that we have not made any progress geographically; nor have we made any progress towards the main objective of winning the hearts and the minds of the people of Vietnam. I want to know for whom the personal pronoun 'we' stands. Almost every sentence uttered by the honourable senator was in favour of our enemies and against ourselves and our allies. Presumably he is talking about his friends the Vietcong and the troops of North Vietnam. The honourable senator went further and read from a very complex article - I think it was from a quaint organisation called 'The Liaison Committee of Peace Forces in Vietnam' - on the intrusion of South Vietnamese troops into Laotian Territory. That is one of those snappy little titles to which the peace front organisation attach themselves so readily. He read from this article which contained considerable criticism of the Thieu Government by people in South Vietnam. All I say about that is that it defeats most of what he tried to put before the Senate. Ft shows that with all its faults and all its defects there is at least freedom of speech and freedom of expression in South Vietnam. Perhaps the honourable senator does not know that in North Vietnam the penalty for opposing the war is death. With all the faults in South Vietnam, that is not the penalty there. 
If you would care to check on the reports of the Hanoi presidium you would find that what 1 say is correct. 1 am not going off half 'cocked as did the honourable senator who preceded me. 1 suppose it is fatuous to try to traverse the farrago of nonsense, the myths and the rest of the fairy stories he brought out. Perhaps I should make some reference to My Lai, or Song My, to give it its correct name. 
I beg your pardon? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! 
I find it incredible,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that an honourable senator opposite should imply that I approve of murder. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! There are far too many interjections and honourable senators are sailing very close to the wind. 
Thank you,  Sir. 1  listened with polite attention to the fairy stories of  Senator Cavanagh  but I find that my friends opposite are incapable of listening to facts when they are put before them. I want to talk about Song My. 1 regard that incident as a disgraceful episode in the long history of the American army. It is most reprehensible that that event took place. But I want to draw a distinction between the treatment of Calley, who was tried for his life, and the barbarians, the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese, who occupied the ancient city of Hue at the time of the so-called Tet offensive. It was at the time of Tet that the ancient city, the imperial city, was taken over briefly for 10 or 12 days by the Communist forces. During that time they disposed of somewhere between 4,500 and 5,000 of the inhabitants. They were slaughtered because they would not go along with the 
Communist line. They were buried, mostly, in mass graves around the city of Hue. With the assistance of Red Cross investigators and the people who survived that dreadful massacre the graves were opened and the bodies were discovered. Then we beard rubbish from the Communist front organisations, from Burchett, that disgrace to Australia, and others, who said "that these people were killed by American artillery. 
Of course, this allegation was simply rebutted because very many of the victims had their hands tied behind their backs and a bullet in the back of the head. As you know,  Mr Deputy President,  it is almost impossible for artillery to accomplish that. Honourable senators opposite may say that this is just another horror story and that some of the North Vietnamese and Vietcong ran riot, but that is not the point, because a fortnight after the Hue massacres Hanoi radio was boasting of the massacres that had been committed. The North Vietnamese were stating over the radio what they had done to the people who would not follow the Communist line. They were threatening other cities in South Vietnam that their citizens would be treated in the same murderous fashion if they did not toe the Communist line. These are the people whom  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Keeffe  are so ready to rush in to defend. 
I did not suggest for one minute that it justified My Lai. I do not want selective indignation. I am horrified by Song My, but T am even more horrified by the 50 times worse massacres which took place in Hue. About 2 miles from where I live in Glen Iris, a Melbourne suburb, lives a young man who served as a national serviceman in Vietnam. I will not give his name. He wrote a letter home to his parents saying that he was disgusted with a lot of rubbish he had read in Australian newspapers which had been sent to him. He wrote: 'If only the people at home could see the barbarous acts committed by the Vietcong they would never give them any support.' He mentioned the name of a village that he and his comrades entered. If  Senator Cavanagh  wants the name of the village I will give it to him. He wrote that in that village they found the body of a baby girl of 2 years who had been hanged by the Vietcong. Do not let us have any rubbish about the Americans having a monopoly on violence. All ! am asking is that the indignation expressed by honourable senators opposite not be selective. 
 I do not say that for one moment. 1 have not heard  Senator Cavanagh  criticise the massacres in Hue but I have criticised Song My and will continue 10 do so. 
That is true. I want now to say a word or two about the prisoners of conscience, the people whose sense of justice and rectitude is so strong that they are prepared to have themselves immured behind prison walls rather than fight in mi Australian uniform.  Senator Cavanagh  asks us whether it is not preferable and desirable from the point of view of a young man and his parents for him to say that he will nol .serve in the Army; that he will serve 2 years in gaol.- With remissions granted by the State the period of imprisonment would be shorter than 2 years. We are asked to judge whether tha! imprisonment is not preferable to a young man's finding himself .in the position in. which an American lieutenant now finds himself, ls the honourable senator not suggesting that it is preferable for a young man to say that he is a conscientious objector than to take the risk of defending his country in a foreign land? 
I am prepared to concede,  Mr President,  that there ore many honest, genuine, sincere and decent conscientious objectors but I am not prepared to accept the proposition that every man who says he will nol serve is motivated exclusively by the highest principles. 1 want to turn now to a matter frequently raised in this chamber by honourable senators opposite; that is the suggestion that no real fighting took place in Vietnam until the wicked Americans sent their troops there. Of course, that is arrant nonsense. 1 recommend to honourable senators who are interested in comic papers - and it seems that  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator Cavanagh  have that interest - that they go into the library and have a look at the 'Vietnam Courier' which is published at 46 Tran Hung Dao Street. Hanoi. After the address appear the words Democratic Republic of North Vietnam'. Honourable senators will discover that in 1959, Tra Bong, the hilly district of Quang Nov, was used as one of the first places for uprisings. In other words, revolt and rebellion were set in hand in 1959, about 12 months before the first soldiers of the American Army arrived in Vietnam. I would like to refer to some of the gentle practices of these rebels. Admittedly they did not like the people running them, mainly Diem. I do not have time to he diverted to that subject at the moment. 1 wish to quote from the 'Vietnam Courier'. I suppose honourable senators opposite would treat this information as gospel. The Vietnam Courier' states: 
To ward off repression and especially to dodge the draft in the puppet army these buys left the jungle camps. In self defence they even had to dispose of the ruffians coming to arrest them. 
I like the use of the euphemism, 'to dispose'. The report goes on: 
The children of those killed by  Diem's  men  organised  themselves  into  decapitation groups, -  For the benefit of  Senator Keeffe  I will explain that 'decapitation groups' refers to people who cut ofl the heads of other people. The report continues:  - so called  from  the local practice of beheading the enemy. In  August  1959  the  area was asked to vole for the National Assembly. 
These people were being given the democratic right to vote. What did they do? According to the 'Vietnam Courier' th«y resisted and the decapitation teams and members of the resistance came to the rescue. The publication then states: 
We  surrended  the polling booths, overthrew  tha  ruling  administration.  The civic action groups were tried by people's tribunals. 
I do not have to tell honourable senators what that means in English. When people are tried by a people's tribunal it means a quick bullet in the back of the neck. These are the friends and pin up boys of honourable senators opposite. 1 find myself totally unable to understand or to accept that. It is impossible to accept their argument without accepting also the line that they are barracking and cheering for a Communist victory, lt is impossible to listen io what they say without believing that they want to see Australia and her allies worsted in this conflict. 
Much to their chagrin there is a steady improvement in the military situation in Vietnam.  Sir Robert  Thompson, who must be regarded as the greatest authority of our day on guerilla warfare, points out that the Tet offensive in 1968 was a tremendous psychological victory in the West because of the incredible way in which it was treated by the mass media and by people of the same political views as honourable senators opposite. But  Sir Robert  points out that it was a military disaster of the first magnitude for North Vietnam. He points out also that in the 6 months before and after the Tet offensive North Vietnam lost about 600,000 casualties. In  Sir Robert's  words it was equivalent to Great Britain's failing to get one man off two Dunkirks. 
Since the time of the Tet offensive in 1968 the Communists have been unable to mount a military operation in South Vietnam, even in battalion strength. The incursion into Cambodia has had a marked effect on the ability of that little country to resist Communist aggression. It is interesting to note that at least a month and perhaps 5 weeks, before the Americans entered Cambodia with the South Vietnamese, the Communist attack on the Government which replaced Sihanouk's had already begun. 
Yes. Let me raise one or two matters in regard to the position in the north. It seems to me to be strange - I say this as an armchair strategist and without pretending to be a person of great military learning - that with the Seventh Fleet at our disposal off the coast of North Vietnam there is no blockade of the port of Haiphong. Some 85 per cent of the war materials which go to the assistance of the Communists in North Vietnam enter through the port of Haiphong which we are physically in a position to blockade. 
I conclude by referring to a statement on genocide issued by Cambodian students. 
It is in these terms: 
We solemnly accuse the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese as well as their mentor, the People's Republic of China, of trying to erase Cambodia and the Cambodian people from the fare of this world. And Sihanouk, the puppet  of  these forces, is to be despised for the part that he has taken against his own countrymen. 
The annals of history will lay the full blame for the current crisis in South East Asia at the feet of the Communist leaders in Peking and Hanoi. 
With abundant evidence from inside the countries of South East Asia, it is clear that most Australians will rejoice in the fact that the Prime Minister has been able to announce the withdrawal of at least 1,000 Australian troops as an indication that the job which we set out to do some years ago is now well on the way to completion. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Which Commonwealth Department operates the Civil Defence School at Mount Macedon in Victoria? 
For what period of the year is the school operative? 
What numbers and types of personnel are attached to the establishment? 
Is the school partially self-supporting? If not, what is the annual cost of operating it? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the Senate whether the Government of Communist China has yet accorded full diplomatic recognition with mutual exchange of envoys at ambassador level to the Government of Great Britain? If China has so recognised Great Britain, will the Minister advise the date of such recognition? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Is it correct that the holder of any Commonwealth Government scholarship is permitted to earn up to only $6 a week during term time? If this is correct, in view of current living costs could not a more realistic amount be set? Is it a fact also that any such scholarship holder with a living allowance who wins an exhibition or other monetary prize as a reward for success in studies has that amount deducted from his allowance? Would it not be more reasonable to except such moneys won as a reward for success at studies so that they are not deducted from the scholarship holder's allowance? 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I find the incessant questioning of the Minister by  Senator Keeffe  tedious. I ask: Is it not a fact that Francis James is staying with friends? 
I must say that I am bound to defer to  Senator Wheeldon?s  mastery of some of the shadier aspects of the American, South African and Irish scenes, but I think it is a pity that he did not refer to the Bill before the Senate. He delivered himself of a farrago of nonsense, the speech of a would-be demagogue, but he did not touch the meat of the - matter contained in the legislation before us. I do not have the time to pursue his twisted logic down the labrynthine corridors of his fantasy, but if he claims to be serious when he says that Australia is a police state I can" only think that he must be joking. However, I do point out in rebuttal of a couple of the statements that he made that no-one ever promised to put demonstrators out of Business, no-one ever suggested that the ' members of the Australian Labor Party would be herded together into the gutter, although I have seen them sitting there quite voluntarily- 
1 am not reading my speech; I am speaking from copious notes. 
The ACTING.  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - There is no substance in the point of order. 
Perhaps at this stage I should point out that in rebuttal I am quoting directly the words of  Senator Wheeldon.  No-one ever suggested that the members of the Australian Labor Party would be herded together into the gutter, although I have seen them sitting there quite voluntarily, and that was on an occasion that was quaintly called a moratorium. I think it is confirmation of the strength of the Government's position when one observes the complete absence of factual criticism of the legislation from the Opposition. 
I do not want to spend all my time replying to  Senator Wheeldon  's comments, but he did make a reference to Magna Carta and suggested that it was a victory for the freedom of the people. Perhaps  Senator Wheeldon  does not know that this proposed . Act will repeal legislation which was passed in the century .which followed Magna Carta. That indicates how necessary it is to clean up this legislation. The Riots and Tumults Suppression Act was passed at the end of the 14th century, and that is one of the pieces of legislation which applies in certain ' Australian States and will be repealed. Its applicability will be removed by this legislation. Although this is perhaps a slight digression, I might say that Magna Carta -was not a victory for the people, as  Senator Wheeldon  claimed; it was a victory for the barons. (Quorum formed) As I was  saying when  Senator Keeffe  found himself bound to call a quorum, Magna Carta was not a victory for the people, as  Senator Wheeldon  suggested; it was a victory for the overpowerful barons and earls over the pusillanimous King John. But I come back to the Bill in 1971. It is a Bill which I am pleased to support. Unlike  Senator. Wheeldon  I do not believe in wild exaggeration. I do not suggest that the Australian society is dissolving into cataclysmic chaos. It is not true that brigands lurk in the hills, that bandits infest the city streets, lt would certainly be unjust to suggest that anarchy stalks the land. But there are areas of lawlessness and disorder which demand correction, and that is what this very moderate Bill sets out to do. 

 Senator Wright in his second reading speech pointed out that the purpose of the Bill was to simplify and in some cases to moderate the existing force of the law. I do not resile from the proposition that the Government stands for a free but a well ordered society. This legislation is necessary if we are going to fill in the gaps in the existing laws. This is a federation, a nation in which we have 6 States, some territories 
This gentleman was the Attorney-General in- New Zealand. He said: 
 Both freedom and order are essential. Freedom without  order - which  is. virtually what the anarchists proclaim - is an impossible state except for hermits. There can be no meaningful freedom in society unless we have order. On the other hand, order without freedom is tyranny and we will have none of it. Balancing the .two is a perennial human problem, to which there is no perfect solution. 

 Senator Wright went on further to quote a distinguished member of the Labor Party, the right honourable Lord Shawcross, Q.C., a man who was Attorney-General of the United Kingdom under  Mr Attlee  and the British prosecutor at the Nuremburg trials. I think he should be an authority whom the Labor Party would accept on most points, although perhaps his views on Vietnam would not be acceptable to them. Lord Shawcross said: 
. the existence of rights depends upon the establishment of related obligations and neither can exist without the co-existence of the other. 
I know that if honourable senators opposite were allowed to have a free, secret, non-Party vote on this legislation very many of them would go along with the Government in supporting it. The Government has an international obligation. 
We have in Australia at present between 50 and 60  -  I am not quite sure of the figure; I am relying on my memory - foreign legations, embassies and the like. The countries which subscribe to the Vienna Convention of 1961 are bound .to 

 Persons and Property) Bill 

 Commonwealth premises . have been to some extent an area of no-man's land. There .are very few members, numerically speaking, of the Commonwealth Police Force. The High Court of Australia gave a decision fairly recently, although I do not recall the year, in relation to a claim for workers compensation ' for an injury suffered on Commonwealth property near either the: Richmond or Williamtown aerodrome. The decision of that great constitutional authority was that the State law in respect to compensation did not run on Commonwealth territory. I am not saying that the position is exactly analagous, but recently we had in Melbourne people who I would in fact describe as hoodlums but who describe themselves as protesters, who attempted to set fire to wastepaper baskets in the General Post Office. In earlier days in Victoria, as there were people in the Post Office, this would have constituted the crime of arson. The penalty in Victoria for this crime was until a few years ago - I cannot give the exact date - death. The penalty was death for setting fire to a building in which a person was present. Because there was initially no Commonwealth police officer present there were some doubts as to the validity of arrests being made by the State police of these' hoodlums on this Commonwealth property. To improve the position slightly, the Commonwealth did pass the Commonwealth 
The sometime Leader of the Australian Labor Party in another place,  Mr Whitlam.  There is nothing in this Bill which outlaws demonstrations as such provided they are not accompanied by violence or threats of violence. 
J think the honourable senator should stay in Geelong. I do not think he is correctly stating the law. 
The law in some States, as I have already mentioned, goes right back to the 13th and 14th centuries. The Riots and Tumults Suppression Act of 1393 is still in force in some parts of Australia. After this legislation is enacted it will not be in force. Honourable senators will be interested to know that in some cases it provided a penalty of indefinite imprisonment and a defendant who was convicted had to surrender his suit of armour to the king. We propose to remove that form of penalty by way of the legislation which is before the Senate. 

 Senator Wheeldon offered some criticism of the fact that a police sergeant had io assess whether there was likely to be violence. He suggested or implied that the police sergeant determined whether a crime or offence was committed. Nothing could be further from the truth. What happens in this case, as in the case of any other simple prosecution, is if there is an assembly and a police officer of the rank of sergeant or above has reasonable grounds for believing that there will be violence he may act as prescribed' in the legislation. But that is not the end of the matter. Whether an offence has been committed will be determined by a court on the evidence placed before it and the onus remains fairly and squarely on the. Crown to prove the offence. 1 do not think it would be fair to blame all honourable senators opposite for some of the statements which have been made by their colleagues in another place, but we do know that  Dr J.  F. Cairns, for example, was recently reported as having said that he was glad that authority had had its day. If that is not an incitement to anarchy I would like to know what is. He is also reported as having said: 'If you do not like a law break it'. The good doctor has also claimed that this legislation was unnecessary as the State laws cover everything. To show how irrational that proposition is, I shall refer to the case to which he referred of the women who were prosecuted in Victoria under certain legislation relating to trespass. 
I now propose to read what the good doctor said about this matter. I do so to show how necessary the legislation is; that is on the assumption that one believes that there should be a well ordered society. The good doctor, when speaking in another place on 20th April, said: 
In. respect of other inquiries 1 have made, 1 find that the only time when any of these women were on the floor is when they were being dragged out or lifted out of the Department of Labour and National Service into the hallway where they could be arrested legally. That dragging them out of the Department was strictly illegal, because until (he Bill which is now before mis House is passed there is no power to do that. 
Could anything be clearer than that? Here we' have the champion of the bobby soxers the oldest teeny bopper in the business, conceding .that there is really absolute necessity for this type of legislation if a well ordered society is to be maintained in our country. I do not think that the matter needs to be taken any further.. The Bill virtually speaks for itself. T hope that the legislation will receive a speedy passage. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! I call  Senator James  McClelland. I draw the attention of honourable senators to the fact that  Senator James  McClelland will be making his maiden speech. T ask the Senate to extend to him the usual courtesies. . 
Is the Minister  representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that a publication known as Polish Weekly' which is edited in Melbourne has served Australian citizens of Polish origin for 20 years and that the publication has its own editorial policy and carries advertising? Is it a fact that the agencies Alma, Contal and Odra in Melbourne; Delta in Sydney; Globus in Adelaide; Echo in Perth and Maria Sulima in Brisbane are representatives of the Polish banking institution PKO which serves Polish migrants throughout Australia in sending food parcels or money to their relatives in Poland? Does the Minister know that 'Polish Weekly' has on occasion published material critical of the Polish Government and that the said agencies regularly advertise in the said journal? Is it a fact that subsequent to such publication the Polish Consul-General in Sydney on 28th February 1971 sent an official letter to the said agencies ordering them to cancel all their advertising in the 'Polish Weekly' at once under threat of losing their licence to deal with PKO? Will the Minister or the Government indicate to the Polish Consul-General, as diplomatically as may be required, that this type of totalitarian economic blackmail is out of place in a free country and suggest that he withdraw the threat? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation whether it is a fact that members of the Australian merchant marine have restricted repatriation rights vis-a-vis the other arms of the Services, particularly in regard to medical and hospital treatment. If so, as these men served in the front line and as their casualty rate has been reported to be 400 per cent greater than that of any of the other Services, would the Minister examine the position and correct the anomaly? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer:. Is there at present any financial limit placed upon the amount which may be claimed by taxpayers as deductions in respect of medical and hospital expenses? Is there any restriction on. the type of hospital whose treatment is an allowable deduction? 
There are some, elements in the question that would need to be referred to the Treasurer. I ask that the question be put on notice. 
I think the matter raised by  Senator Mulvihill  is important and significant, and 1 support his request that both the particular instance and the principle involved be investigated by the Government. 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. I preface my question by saying that as a matter of practice every telephone subscriber for a business or professional telephone is allowed one free entry in the pink pages under the subscriber's business or professional classication. Is it a fact that companies which carry on more than one form of activity with more than one telephone line and so fit into more than one classification are allowed only one free entry in the pink pages even though they have to pay full separate telephone rentals for each line? If this is so, will the Minister inquire into and comet this anomally? 
Whilst I have carefully examined clauses 6 and 7 and I realise that one deals with summary offences and the other deals with indictable offences, and whilst I believe as I said earlier that the wording of clause 6 is adequate as it is, it is my personal belief that the legislation would be mildly improved by the insertion of the word 'wilfully'. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is it a fact that the Australian Industry Development Corporation has been engaging staff? If so, what is the total weekly wage bill for the Corporation? What are the salaries paid individually? What are the classifications of the people receiving those salaries? Has the AIDC commenced the investigation of applications for funds? Has the AIDC been given any economy direction by the Government in respect of the control of its expenses? 
I think the extravagant criticism which has been levelled by honourable senators opposite at this clause and the preceding clause is a fair measure of their desperation. Since most of them who have spoken have been lawyers, they would know that in interpreting the statute law they should follow the principles set down by Crais' Statute Law Interpretation' and similar authorities which state that words have to be given their plain, ordinary, natural meaning. The Oxford dictionary gives an example of the definition of 'in the vicinity of. It means 'in the neighbourhood of, near', or 'close to'. Whether the facts of a particular case establish a person as being in the vicinity of a place or embassy will be a question of fact for the court to decide on any particular occasion. I think the example given by  Senator James  McClelland in relation to the embassy at Double Bay is far fetched and unreal. The simple answer, without going through all the rigmarole, is that if a person were caught up in such a situation, as the honourable senator well knows, that person simply does not have the common purpose required to be part of the assembly, and that is the end of the matter. The decision is not taken by a policeman; the decision is taken by a court. 
To suggest that all policemen push demonstrators into the gutter is unreal. This does not happen in real life. I have seen policemen behaving in the most restrained, the most tolerant and the most patient fashion while louts have been pushing lighted cigarette butts into the flanks of their horses or rolling marbles under the hooves of their horses. I have seen all these types of provocation of police and in only one instance have 1 seen what I would call violence in retaliation. I think it is quite unfair to Commonwealth police officers and perhaps to State police officers, who may be implementing this legislation if it becomes law, to suggest that these types of people are fascist brutes - which might be the inference to be drawn from what honourable senators opposite have said. This clause is for evidentiary purposes only, as the Minister has pointed out. The violent, pointless, irrelevant attack that has been made upon it is simply a measure of the desperation of those who are anxious to ensure that people who break what might normally be called the ordinary rules of civilised behaviour are protected from the penalty of their actions. 
 Senator Wheeldon  makes a wholly unwarranted assumption when he says that his understanding of this clause is the same as anybody else's. Most people would apply a reasonable touchstone or a sense of English grammatical construction and an understanding of what the words mean. But when we get the emotional flapdoodle with which he goes on it is quite clear that reason has taken flight. 
That is a good question. I shall come to that point before I finish. The honourable senator complained about a reasonable apprehension. If the apprehension is not well founded it is difficult to conceive a set of circumstances - apart from the burning of candles which he referred to - in which it would be reasonable and therefore the conviction could not be sustained by a court. I think the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  who in this chamber represents the Attorney-General  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has made it abundantly clear that the Opposition has failed completely to meet the graveman of this matter. He has made it clear that this is a moderating piece of legislation. Once it comes into effect throughout the Commonwealth its real effect will be to reduce, not to increase penalties. How a genius like Senate Cavanagh can call it repressive I shall never understand.  Senator Murphy  raised the matter of the word 'wilfully'. I think he has a point. While I do not think it adds very greatly to the strength of the legislation to insert the word 'wilfully' it is my belief that adding that word, as is done in clause 7, does no harm. It does not destroy in any way the philosophy behind the clause. 
I ask the honourable senator to wait until I have finished speaking. I have said that I do not believe that the insertion of the word 'wilfully' destroys the philosophy behind the clause. 
I said philosophy. The honourable senator would not know what that meant. As I was saying, I do not think it changes the reading of the clause at all. Perhaps it could make it a shade clearer. I think that I have said enough. 
Clause 6.  (2.) A person who, in a Territory or on Commonwealth premises, while taking part in an assembly and without lawful excuse does an act or thing by way of physical violence to another person or damage to property is guilty of an offence, punishable on conviction by a fine not exceeding One thousand dollars or imprisonment for a term not exceeding twelve months, or both. 
I do not think it is necessary to answer the first part of  Senator Murphy's  speech because it has been answered by the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood).  This clause refers to Commonwealth Territory and Commonwealth premises.  Senator Murphy  suggested that the clause could mean the conviction of a person who has done nothing. It would appear that the Leader of the Opposition has not read all the clause. 
That might well be the case, but I would hesitate to pass any criticism on the gentleman's erudition. The person who is to be charged has to be part of an assembly. An assembly is given a definition in which a common purpose and certain other matters are necessary before a person is actually a participant in an assembly. That being the case, the gentleman joining an assembly has to conduct himself - I use the words 'conduct himself because it is what he does that is important - in such a way as to cause reasonable apprehension on the part of the authorities. He has to do something. An overt act is required, as is required in nearly every criminal matter. There must be some overt act. 
 What do the words conduct oneself mean? 'Conduct' means to act - to conduct oneself in a certain manner. As  Senator Murphy  pointed out earlier, one could commit an assault by adopting a threatening attitude or threatening posture if one is apparently in a physical position to be able to carry out the threat. For example, there is the story about  Senator Cavanagh's  lump of wood.  We  heard  a  very moving tale about that. 

 Persons and Property) Bill 1427 
The lump of wood happened to be part of a pole.  I  do not know whether the pole was sharpened to be used as a spear. I want to know whether the Opposition suggests that a person who was conducting himself in such a manner that he was threatening to heave lumps of wood about the place is not to be regarded as guilty of  a  breach of the Act and, therefore, punishable. I support the clause. 
 I am amazed at the speech made by  Senator Kennelly.  Not since the days of Cromwell have the Irish been so insulted. What is all this nonsense and rubbish about hatred of the laws? He should know very well that some of the most distinguished lawyers in the British Commonwealth have come from Ireland. They do not hate law and they do not hate law and order. What they object to is unlawful violence. However, let me return to the only point made by  Senator Kennelly.  He said that this Bill was unnecessary. I refer the Senate to a man whom he doubtless regards as a potent authority, a man to whose authority he would defer, perhaps, and that is  Dr J.  F. Cairns. 
 I am not going to describe him. He is a member in another place. 
 Students for a Democratic Society, perhaps. I do not know. At all events, he is a member of what is euphemistically called the Federal Labor Advisory Council in Victoria - a quaint name for a body - and also is a member of Parliament in another place. I think that  Dr Cairns  has scotched once and for all the suggestion that this Bill is unnecessary. Referring not specifically to this particular line under discussion in this clause but to the general philosophy behind the clause,  Dr Cairns  made a statement in respect of 5 women who were prosecuted in Melbourne under certain State legislation. They spent a certain time in gaol for breaches of the law. I want to read  Dr Cairn's  statement, which does more than anything else to prove how necessary is this legislation. There is not legislation on the statute book, as claimed by honourable senators opposite, which is adequate to deal with this type of offence.  Dr Cairns  said: 
In respect of other inquiries I have made, I find that the only time when any of these women were on the floor is when they were being dragged out or lifted out of the Department qf Labour and National Service into the hallway where they could be arrested legally. That dragging them out of the Department was strictly illegal, because until the Bill which is now before this House is passed there is no power to do that. 
The Department referred to is Commonwealth territory. All I do is translate the remarks of  Dr Cairns  from that situation to the clause before us and say that unless this type of legislation is put into force the Commonwealth is not adequately empowered to protect its citizens and its members of parliament, as in the case of  Senator McManus.  whose privacy was invaded and whose secretary was threatened. The Parliament has not given its own instrumentalities the power to deal with these most objectionable occurrences. I find it repugnant that honourable senators opposite can give any support for the type of people who would breach ordinary common decency in this fashion. 
It is difficult to believe that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  is serious in what he says. If there were any complaint that a clause was unnecessary in the Australian Labor Party's opposition to this Bill, it might be argued that a case could be made out for this subclause. I concede that a case could possibly be made which applies to sub-clause (4) because it. is probable that existing laws would enable any person to take such action as this clause is legally emboldening him to take. When  Senator Murphy  was serious last night I went along with him but I cannot follow this sort of argument at all. He rather gives the impression that the community is composed entirely of agents provocateur who go around heaving bricks through windows. That is so far fetched and unreal as to be difficult to understand. But the Opposition wilfully - I draw attention to the word wilfully' - refuses to observe the distinction between sub-clause (4) (a) and sub-clause (4) (b). In one case we are dealing with a reasonable apprehension. Something has not yet happened. A direction must be given before those powers in the rest of the clause are. conferred. In the case of sub-clause (4) (b) we are dealing with the situation where violence has actually broken out. If I can become as imaginative as  Senator Murphy-maybe  heads are being broken, people hurled into the streets and enormous damage being done to property. Presumably  Senator Murphy  wants us to stand idly by, wait and until the catastrophe is over and bring civil proceedings. 
I am afraid that is not so. The distinction should be obvious to anyone who is prepared to apply his mind to the difference between something which is about or may be going to happen and something which is in fact happening. For obvious reasons in the second case it would be nonsense to wait for a direction of the same sort to be given as is mentioned in sub-clause (4) (a.). 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is there any financial limit placed upon the amount which may be claimed as deductions for medical and hospital expenses. 
Is there any restriction on the type of hospital in which treatment is received for the purposes of claiming taxation deductions. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There is no upper limit upon the deduction allowable in respect of a payment which falls within the meaning of 'medical expenses' as defined in the income tax law. However, the deduction otherwise allowable is reduced by any amount which is payable in respect of the medical expenses by a government, hospital or medical benefits fund, public authority, society or association. 
A payment to a public or private hospital may qualify for deduction under the heading of medical expenses' if the payment is in respect of an illness or operation. 
Has the Minister for Health seen a statement by the Leader of the Opposition in another place claiming that the Minister deliberately delayed his statement to the Senate on medical fees and benefits until the House of Representatives had risen? 
Will you allow me to ask my question? 
The Minister will answer. Is this claim by the Leader of the Opposition correct? Does this, together with allied statements, indicate that the Labor Party believes that the doctors are the only section of the community which is not allowed to increase its fees? Is the Minister aware of the Labor Party's policy in respect of strikes by doctors? Has the Minister seen a quaint editorial in this morning's 'Age' covering other aspects of rises in medical fees? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the atmosphere of euphoria in the Press and in another quarter surrounding this matter can the Minister advise the Senate as to the identity and the authority of the body extending the recently publicised invitation to the Australian Labor Party for a delegation to visit Red China? 
I congratulate my colleague  Senator Webster  on his masterly analysis, of some of the problems facing the primary producer: I also defer to him because, of ' his undoubted mastery of the etymological derivation of the words 'viable'' and 'viability'.  Senator Devitt,  too, has to be congratulated on his thoughtful speech. Itis a pity that he spoilt it by making a couple of irrational outbursts at the end , I. think, too, that he was unnecessarily pessimistic, and despite the urgent problems' which everybody agrees face the rural community at the moment, it seems to me to be an extraordinary situation that the Australian Labor Party wishes to withdraw$ 100m from the rural producers. It is simply an exercise in semantics to saythat the Labor Party wants to withdraw the Bill merely to redraft it because everybody knows that the House of Representatives has risen and the practical effect of carrying the Labor Party's amendment would be, in truth and in fact, to deny this money to the rural sector of the economy. It does not matter what the intention is; the practical effect is that the rural community would not receive the money. 
I agree completely with what  Senator Devitt  said about the desirability of keeping the small farmer in existence. The economic experts seem to use the expression get big or get out'. But that philosophy is entirely alien to the political philosophy  of  the Government. There are very many reasons - other than money reasons - why a man or a family wish to maintain himself or themselves on the land. Perhaps before I leave  Senator Devitt's  remarks, I should refer to what he said about the period when he was in primary production in 1951-52- 
I do not know whether he was engaged iri the production of wool at that time, but if he was, all I can say to him -is that every wool producer in Australia would love to return to the -wool prices which obtained in 1952 at the height of the Korean war. 
 Then those remarks do hot apply to  Senator Devitt's  -position. I welcome this legislation which is similar in many respects to the pilot scheme" which was. announced in. the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreement Bill which was passed last session. I think" that one good effect of the legislation - quite' apart from its undoubted economic impact - is the psychological impact which it must make on city dwellers. Many people who reside in our cities and large provincial towns believe that the primary producer is being feather-bedded, to use a term which will be remembered-- 
As  Senator Prowse  says, it could well be more like a bed of nails. I do not share the belief which I mentioned. One has only to listen to the facts that have been adduced in this debate by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber to realise that that belief, which is so widely held in the cities, is utterly unfounded.  Senator Webster  and  Senator Devitt  also touched on the social problems which are encountered by people in rural areas. There are difficulties in getting adequate educational opportunities and even radio and television facilities which are regarded as essential concomitants of modern living. Also to be considered are sporting and cultural activities, medical facilities, hospitals and all the other matters that go to make up the amenities of life in . a modern society. Rural producers in certain areas are prejudiced in this regard. Distance is one of the things against which the farmer is continually fighting. A farmer's access to communication facilities, including telephones and railway services suffer because of the distance which separates him from the capital cities. In these circumstances one does not have to be Mandrake to realise why so many people have drifted to the cities and why, understandably, many of them have come from the arid and semi-arid pastoral zones of Australia. 
Another matter which has to be taken into consideration is the plight of country storekeepers. The costs of rural producers are rising rapidly, at the rate of 3 per cent a year, while prices are falling at the rate of 3 per cent a year. That gives a 6 per cent imbalance against the rural producers. This means that very many of the small shopkeepers are finding it impossible to carry on. These shopkeepers are people who like to eke out an independent economic existence in country towns. In recent times, while on political business, I have visited several country towns. I was amazed and horrified at the number of empty shops and at the number of commercial premises which were to let. By and large a very severe recession - I would not say a depression - has set in on people in rural areas. It is not only the man actually on the farm but also the man who supplies the farmer with his daily requirements who is feeling the pinch. 
In his economic challenge, the farmer has to look for markets. He has to fight his indebtedness to financial organisations, and of course there is the incessant fight against the cost-price squeeze. Rural industries rely on exports. Depending on the industry, the state of reliance on exports varies from 45 per cent of produce in some industries to 95 per cent of produce in other industries. For example, 70 per cent of our wheat is exported and more than 90 per cent of Australia's wool clip goes overseas. It is interesting to note also that as a result of Government stimulation we are developing fresh markets. In recent times we have been encouraged by substantial sales of wheat to the United Arab Republic. Those sales, on the last assessment that I read in the Press, roughly equal the sales which had been made previously to Communist China. Since I am informed, on credible authority, that large quantities of the wheat sold to Communist China were sold at less than the cost of production, it does not appear to me that the loss of sales to that country is the major trade problem which very many of our commentators seem to think that it is. I agree with  Senator Webster's  figures on average farm income. About 40 per cent of farmers are earning less than $2,000 a year. It may be true that the farmer has free milk, free potatoes and other vegetables and other free commodities that the city dweller does not have, but in return for this the farmer may well have to work a 65 or 75-hour week. No-one in his right mind in this country at the moment, in this affluent society, would regard $2,000 a year as a reasonable reward for a working week of that nature. 
I conclude by saying that the rural producer in all his shapes, sizes and forms - the large man, the middle man and the small man - has an important and a continuing role to play in Australia's economic existence. The city dweller must be apprised of the fact that he cannot act on the Jack principle. He cannot say: 'I'm all right. It does not matter what happens in the country'. Without a rural community living in frugal comfort at least, the city cannot be supplied adequately or properly. The main point to which I draw the Senate's attention is this: We must realise the plight of the rural industries. I believe that the $100m to be distributed, through the machinery which the Government has devised, while not being the panacea for all the primary producer's ills, should go a long way towards making viable - if I may use that word which  Senator Webster  used - so many rural enterprises which otherwise might have failed. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I wish to take 2 minutes, if I may, to amplify a matter arising from a small misunderstanding which appears to have resulted from a question that I asked this morning in relation to the proposed visit of an Australian Labor Party delegation to China. My friend,  Senator Kennelly,  seems to have misunderstood the wording of my inquiry and to have found in it some slight or offensive personal reference to the Leader of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Whitlam,  a man for whom I have high esteem. 
 I am not apologising. Let me assure the honourable senator that nothing is further from my mind. Mark you, I have no objection to needling my honourable friends opposite from time to time but, on the occasion in question, I was innocent. I said: 

 Mr Whitlam's television interview was modest and dignified. 
Is there anything offensive in that statement? Could any Labor man take exception to it - except, perhaps, George Crawford and/or Bill Hartley? But I think that, on the surface, there was nothing to which exception could be taken. 
I then likened the members of the delegation to modem Marco Polos. Is that offensive? To remove any lingering doubts, I quote from the 'Encyclopaedia Britannica' in relation to Marco Polo. It states: 
POLO, MARCO (1254-1324), Venetian traveller, whose descriptions of his journeys across the world from Venice to China and back, and of his experiences in the vast dominions of the Mongol emperor Kublai, make one of the greatest books of a time. This remarkable book, 'The Book of Marco Polo, Citizen of Venice, Called Million, Wherein Is Recounted the Wonders of the World", is a forerunner of scientific geography.  ls there anything offensive in that? It continues: 
Its author was the first to inform the West of the extent and power of China- 
Is there anything offensive in that?  It  continues: 
. and the first to give an intelligible account of the ways thither. He made known a host of places hitherto hidden from European cartographers. Granted the prejudices of his age, in which, for instance, Christians and Muslims knew each other's faith only by travesty, his judgments reveal an open mind. 
Is there anything offensive in that?  I  hope that  Mr Whitlam  comes back with an open mind. The 'Encyclopaedia Britannica* continues: 
The value of his observations on the events of bis time is recognised by modern Orientalists. 
 This is not  an  apology. Is there anything offensive in the last sentence that I read? I think that this was perhaps the most flattering reference made to  Mr Whitlam  for  a  long time. With reference to Kublai Khan, if honourable senators read  Chairman  Mao they will see that the parallel is complete.  I  hope that my friend,  Senator Kennelly,  will accept my assurance on this point. 
Question resolved in the affirmative.  Senate adjourned at 11.4 p.m. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister seen recent reports that a Chinese authority has invited an Australian Labor Party delegation to China, stating that this invitation has been extended by the Chinese 'for discussions on questions concerning the relations between the 2 countries'? However, in a dignified and modest television interview last Sunday night  Mr Whitlam  did say that the Labor Party had by-passed the Government. Having regard to the proposed personnel of the ALP delegation, does the Minister think it necessary to remind these modern Marco Polos that Australia's foreign relations are decided by the Government, not by Oppositions or Labor secretaries or even by university professors? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! I am not prepared to uphold the point of order. Generally honourable senators should be careful with the language they use in this place. I think that should be kept in mind. I draw the attention of honourable senators, as  Mr President  has done so often, to the fact that too many statements are being made before a question is asked. Honourable senators should keep this in mind and come to their questions as quickly as they can. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes, I have been misrepresented by  Senator Kennelly,  partly because he has never heard of Marco Polo before. Marco Polo was a most distinguished scientist and explorer who lived many centuries ago. He was a man held in very high repute in his own country. He travelled to China and helped to establish economic, social and cultural relations - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! The remarks being made by the honourable senator do not constitute a personal explanation. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order! I have already ruled in that manner. 
I support this . Bill. I think there is a good deal of validity in some of the points raised by my friend,  Senator Kennelly.  The honourable senator has drawn attention to some of the least praiseworthy aspects of this Bill. I propose to canvass them at slightly greater length. The difficulty I see in respect of clause 5 of the Bill is that if the Victorian senators gang up and reject this clause it means that the States will lose a staggering amount of $400m over a period of time. So to that extent I think our hands are tied in regard to rejecting the measure. But, in my view, that does not take away from the validity of what  Senator Kennelly  said. 
The honourable senator can have his go later, but if he wants to take away $400m from the States he can recommend that course. However I do not know how long it will be before the House of Representatives meets again and would be able to pass fresh legislation. I think as a matter of practical politics and as a matter of sheer horse trading that all honourable senators must support this Bill inasmuch as on balance it conveys overwhelming advantages and benefits to the States we represent. An increase of $400m is a staggering sum. If I may say so as a slight deviation, it is a firm indication- 
I am deviating from the question of taxation just for a moment. This increase is a firm indication that the new Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is honouring his pledge to improve the financial relations between the Commonwealth and the States, and he is determined to go on improving them. I think he has brought the same drive and application to his new position that he gave to his numerous other portfolios. This increase in funds to go to the States is a very fair reflection on his intentions of ameliorating the rather exacerbated state of affairs' between the States and the Commonwealth in relation to financial matters. If I can digress for one further moment, I suppose honourable senators opposite would agree with me when they look at the results of the gallup poll of a fortnight ago which shows that the Liberal vote has shot up from a miserable 38 per cent to 45 per cent in its own right. Allowing for a reasonable assessment of preferential allocations, it would now appear that 55 per cent of Australian voters support the present Government. 
I am indebted to my friend,  Senator Little,  for his reminder that the State of Victoria continues on its merry Socialist left way. However, to turn to somewhat less desirable aspects of this Bill, I think it is common ground that the Government takes the view that these moneys are paid to the States, under section 96 of the Constitution, on certain conditions. I do not think anyone challenges the right of the Commonwealth to make grants upon the conditions laid down under clause 5. In fact, it is true-  Senator Kennelly  might remember this since I think he was a member of the administration - that the Cain Labor Government, subsequently the Country Party Government and after that the Liberal administrations in Victoria have all been dubious about the legality of payroll tax. Of course, after the High Court's decision of last week this question has now been put beyond any reasonable doubt. But we all believe that justice should not only be done but must also appear to be done. I suppose it would be pretty generally agreed that Victoria is the social, cultural, economic, industrial heart of the Commonwealth. It is also true that the Premier of that State has never specifically agreed to pay this tax. Regardless of what the High Court may have said, he claims that on no occasion has he ever agreed to pay the tax. That claim would seem to be borne out by the statement made by  Mr Gorton,  the then Prime Minister, on 8th October last year. Whilst I am prepared to admit that this may sound as though Victoria wants to have it both ways - coming and going - I think that if there were some doubt about the legal validity of the tax it is not only the right but also the duty of any sane Administration to have the matter put beyond doubt by a High Court challenge, and this has now been done. 
I turn to clause 5 of the Bill. I regret that I am precluded from taking a certain course of action in regard to this Bill.  Sir Henry  Bolte has made it clear that he has appropriated $9m for this purpose in his Appropriation Bill and, of course, will pay the tax now that the High Court has said that the tax has to be paid. If we look at clause 5 of the Bill - it is proposed new section 9a. (3.) - we find that the Treasurer has absolute discretion as to how much money to deduct. He is not limited to deducting the amount which a State may have failed to pay in payroll tax. I know that the Treasurer is an honourable man. So are they all, all honourable men. But where the language of the statute is clear, explicit and conclusive, the language of the statute is binding. In this sub-clause there is nothing theoretically - I do not regard it as a great practical problem - to stop the Treasurer from deducting the whole amount Under proposed new section 9a (1.) there is an obligation placed upon the State Government - I am speaking now of my own State of Victoria - to ensure that instrumentalities over which it has no direct control pay the money. 
 I am glad that my friend  Senator Kennelly  is with me on this point. If the municipal council fails to pay payroll tax, that amount may well be deducted from the amount which is given to the State even though under the Victorian Local Government Act the State Government has no direct financial control over the budgets of the local municipal councils or any other public body of a like nature. I come now to a somewhat more difficult point to consider, and that is the actual legal validity of clause 5. I am now dealing with proposed new section 9a. (1.). As I said earlier, there is no doubt that the Commonwealth can make grants to the States upon certain terms and conditions. Section 96 of the Constitution states:  . . on  such terms and conditions as the Par liament thinks fit. 
I emphasise the word 'Parliament'. Under this clause the Parliament is not determining the matter. The discretion is being exercised by a member of the Executive, the Treasurer. I am no constitutional lawyer, as are distinguished members of the Government, but it is my belief, for what it is worth as a small suburban lawyer, that that clause is invalid because it is in breach of section 96 of the Constitution. 
Yes, but I do not think- 
Yes, I did. I support the Bill. Simply because 1 support the Bill, it does not mean that I do not have to point out some of these minor technical deficiencies. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, normally I am paid for an opinion. I am giving this free, and I do not attach great strength to it. All I say, as a simple man, is that, looking at it, my belief is that it is in breach of section 96 of the Constitution. Section 51 (ii.), I think it is, I am not sure, provides that the Parliament has power to make laws in respect of: 
Taxation; but so as not to discriminate between States or parts of States. 
No, I am not saying that at all. The honourable senator was not with me when I spoke on section 96. With those minor reservations I am glad to say that I support this Bill wholeheartedly. I am delighted that the new Administration is being so generous in its treatment of the States. 
In that event I direct my remarks to the clause. For the reasons I gave when I spoke earlier this afternoon I still believe that there is some validity in what  Senator Kennelly  said and in my own remarks this afternoon. But, for the very same reasons, I think we would be cutting off our noses to spite our faces if we held up the passage of this Bill by removing clause 5. As the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  has said, as a matter of practical politics we are aware of the delays which would follow if this clause were removed from the Bill. It must be appreciated that there is an increase of $400m by way of grants to the States for this year and whatever point of view  Senator Kennelly, Senator Little  or myself may have in respect of payroll tax as an imposition or as a bad form of taxation there is nothing contained in this clause which would enable us to take out our vengeance on it. Whilst I still have the doubts which I expressed this afternoon in regard to the constitutional aspects of clause 5, it is my intention to support this clause and the Bill. 
Question put: 
That the clause be agreed to. 
 I want to make one or two very brief references in supporting this Bill. I welcome its introduction. As  Senator Laucke  has said, reasonable competition is the basis of a free enterprise society, and this Bill, which takes a step in that direction, is to be welcomed. I think that perhaps my friend  Senator Webster  misread a part of the legislation when he said that any retailer could require any manufacturer to supply him with goods. There is nothing in the Bill which requires that to be done. 
I am not concerned about what some outside body might attempt to do by way of industrial action. Proposed new section 66b simply refers to a practice that is unlawful. Proposed new section 66r&gt; is relevant only if goods are withheld because the proposed purchaser will not enter into an agreement to resell the goods at an agreed price. Section 66j(a) to (e) contains a multitude of gates, provisions or protections so that a genuine arrangement between manufacturer and retailer is not in truth and in fact disturbed. A great deal has been said about the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and his engagement with a certain firm in Melbourne in order to bring about the end of resale price maintenance. I think it is probable that  Mr Hawke  came to the right answer for the wrong reasons, but I do not propose to traverse that at the moment. It has been suggested that  Mr Hawke  has preempted the Government in regard to taking action in relation to this matter. In those circumstances I would like to quote a brief extract from a speech made by a Government senator in this chamber on 12th September 1956. He said: 
May I now say something of the type of legislation that was introduced into the United States in 1890. This type of anti-monopoly legislation was first introduced in 1890 to deal with certain activities of the Rockefeller empire . . . 
That is one matter in respect of which the people of the United States received a benefit as a result of similar legislation. 
Yes, it was. It is a different aspect of this legislation. The honourable senator continued:   . . and was amended by Clayton in 1914 and Robinson in 1936 to improve its procedure. The Act is administered by a federal trade commission, and is aimed at horizontal and vertical monopolies, trade cartels and unfair or restrictive trade practices. 
A number of other matters are referred to in this speech. The honourable senator continued: 
The Act is admittedly clumsy in operation, but it has a wonderful deterrent effect on the wouldbe commercial buccaneer in the United States. For every one person convicted under the Act a thousand must be deterred. Du Pont Industries, 
Standard Oil, Stetson Hats, Kodak and Judson Rivets are some of the well known names which have been effectively dealt with in the United States. 
The suggestion was then put that the Government should proceed and put teeth into the legislation which then existed in Australia and which was in part a copy of the 1890 and 1914 American legislation. We introduced our legislation in 1911. I cannot remember the name of the Prime Minister, but the legislation was called the Australian Industries Preservation Act. I think perhaps  Senator Byrne  ignored this existing legislation in his thoughtful address to the chamber. One of the things about the Australian Industries Preservation Act until the year 1965 was the almost singular lack of success in obtaining convictions on prosecutions under it. My recollection is that there were only 3 major prosecutions under the legislation, all of which failed, until the present Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  who was then Attorney-General launched successful proceedings against wine merchants, 1 point out to  Senator Laucke,  in Canberra on the ground of withholding goods. 
 Senator Laucke  is a wine expert. I do not suggest that he was in any way associated with the prosecution. I think it is reasonable to say that the Government was not entirely pre-empted by  Mr Hawke  in entering this field. After 1956, a distinguished jurist,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, prepared legislation, and we subsequently had the Trade Practices Act. We are now bringing it up to date and making it more effective. In the United States, which I suppose must be regarded as the home of free enterprise, the practice under the old Sherman Act - I call it that for lack of a better title at the moment - was that where a company had 35 per cent of the market it was not allowed to fix its resale price maintenance figures. As 35 per cent was considered to be a substantial share of the market, the American philosophy was that it would not be in the public interest for such companies to  fix  those figures. Speaking from memory,  I  think this was one of the matters that forced the great Eastman Kodak Corporation to yield to the Federal Trade Commission.  I  feel that since this Bill has the fairly general support of the whole Senate it is a matter in relation to which both sides of the chamber are interested in securing the best and most advantageous provisions for consumers without - I emphasise the word 'without' - ruining the trade and the stability of the commercial sector of our community. I support the Bill. 
I directa question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Australian Wheat Board a Commonwealth statutory corporation? Does it have its own corporate seal? How is it financed? Can it sue and be sued in its own name? Is it a fact that the Australian Wheat Board does not make an annual report to the Parliament? If so, is there any particular reason for this exemption? If this exemption is in fact allowed, is such exemption allowed to any other Commonwealth instrumentalities? If so, which instrumentalities are they? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that, after allowing for a reasonable carry-over of about 165 million bushels, the entire current wheat crop has been sold? Did this take place without any assistance from our modern Marco Polos or from  Mr Whitlands  recent hosts? 
 We will just look at what happened when- 
1 will go along with that. 
Or even the Northern Irish. If we lived in a perfect world that could well be the case, but the inescapable inference from my friend's speech is that he welcomes the presence of the Soviet fleet in our home waters. In contradistinction to his, I recommend the serious consideration of the defence propositions which are contained in the early pari of the report. 
I will give you the name of the country in a minute. The  President  was elected for life. There was only one party - no Opposition parties, no judiciary, no human rights. Do you want the name of the country? 
 Naturally we had to arrest and charge the Taiwanese fishermen for breaching our laws. I do not dodge that issue. 1 think we should have done thai. At the same time 1 remind friends opposite that the Soviet ship 'Van Gogh' entered what Australia regards as the closed waters of the Gulf of Carpentaria. Australian fishermen in the Gulf did not think it at all funny when that large Soviet ship steamed through schools of fish, destroying their prospects of a good catch. There is nothing to which they would not stoop. 
 The honourable senator would not be so inclined to laugh if he earned his living fishing instead of talking hot air. 
They are going over pretty fast, I turn to something to which no-one has adverted earlier in this debate. My friend  Senator Wheeldon  went to some lengths to set up, as  Senator Mulvihill  suggested, his own aunt sallys and to dispose of certain racist matters. From what he said I rather gathered that South Africa and Portugal, these powerful nations, were the great threat to the world. 
lt was the Sudan. 
You will have to work that out. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts on a matter which may have escaped his attention. I ask him whether it is a fact that a Commonwealth instrumentality has recently made a grant of $40,000 to the Williamson/Edgley Theatres Ltd to bring to Australia the Royal Winnipeg Ballet? If so - and the belief is widely held that it is so - does the Minister know that members of my union, Actors' Equity Association of Australia, are gravely disturbed that such a sum would be made available in these circumstances to an entrepreneur when the local Queensland, Victorian and Western Australian ballet companies received only $31,000? I ask the Minister whether the man Edgley named in this firm is the same man who has specialised in bringing to Australia brilliant theatrical troupes, circuses and ballets, etc., from the Soviet Union, many of whose members refused to join Actors' Equity. 
1 think the Australian prawn fisherman is entitled to as much protection as are honourable senators, members of the House of Representatives or people in any other occupation in Australia. Maybe that is a strange point of view but it is one to which I propose to adhere. One does not have to be Mandrake to imagine what would happen if an American trawler or an American destroyer were shadowing Soviet operations off Murmansk or Odessa. We know very well what would happen. That would be regarded as provocative action. According to my friends opposite, the Russians can do what they like and that is fair enough: they have the right, and there must be no retaliation. Anything that the West does is provocation. 
That is the inescapable inference to be drawn from what you said. I come to the real reason for the attack on South Africa, usually made by people who could not care less about the welfare of the natives. I have heard people at the United Nations in New York declaiming the wickedness of the South Africans and proclaiming democracy, justice, freedom and the rights of man. 1 referred to the 'International Year Book and Statement Who's Who' which set out the government of the country concerned. 
I do not support the type of government which exists in Spain, although compared with the Sudanese government it is a Sunday school operation. J am being distracted continually by children opposite. I come to the real reason for the attack on South Africa. The South Africans have a problem. I will not attempt to justify all aspects of apartheid, but I do know that the South Africans control the only naval base with full facilities on the western end of the Indian Ocean. It is no coincidence that people who could not care less about what happens to native peoples, people who have spent their entire political lives in foreign countries - I am not talking about my friends opposite - while their own people have been suppressed, have suddenly developed a charitable interest in the downtrodden and oppressed masses of South Africa. Does it strike you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  as strange that almost the entire chorus of communist countries, the satellite countries, the countries which look for communist assistance such as it is, and their sycophants opposite have all joined in this chorus of criticism of South Africa? The purpose of this is to isolate the South Africans, to make them pariahs and ensure that as a result of a break in relations the use of the Simonstown naval base is denied to the Western powers. The proposition is so simple that it only has to be stated to see how unanswerable it is. 
It is true that the Soviet has the largest fishing fleet in the world. A good deal of it is in the Indian Ocean. It is well equipped electronically. It has sonar, radar and electronic equipment which can be used for the gathering of intelligence. In addition, the Soviet possesses the sixth largest merchant fleet. In the normal way of a totalitarian dictatorship, the merchant fleet is used as an auxiliary for naval intelligence and has to do as it is told. It is my belief that Australia should have a 2-ocean navy or at least a 2-ocean squadron. If the 'Melbourne' is to be used on the east coast and if a squadron of frigates or destroyers is required to screen it - if there is an operating task force on the east coast - it strikes me that Western Australia needs that type of defence as much as the east coast does. It was a matter of disappointment to me - I had discussed the matter with certain senior naval officers; not with naval staff, 1 want to make it quite clear - that we missed the opportunity of acquiring, almost for the asking, 3 relatively modern aircraft carriers. The British carrier HMS Hermes' was, I am informed, available to Australia. 
 I will not disclose the naval officer's name. I have not any intention of doing that. This ship was available to Australia, lt was laid down in 1959. lt is a modern warship. It may interest my friends opposite, who in the past have displayed such terror of nuclear explosions, to know that the 'Hermes' is capable of steaming through a nuclear cloud. This ship, which was available to Australia, regrettably was not accepted. It has now been converted by the British into a commando-type carrier using helicopters. 
I express disappointment that the Government which I support did not accept it. There arises the objection as to cost. We were getting the ship for virtually nothing. Could we man it? It is quite true that we could not have manned the ship immediately but the Navy has never had any difficulty in recruitment. In my view, it would not have been at all difficult over 2 or 21 years to recruit and train a suitable crew - about 1,800 to 2,000 men would be involved - to man the Hermes'. The 'Hermes' has gone; we cannot have it. lt is probable that if diligent search and inquiry were made we might be able to obtain one of the 2 United States ships which are in moth balls at the moment - the USS 'V..........a' of about 40,000 tons fully loaded, which is not as modern .as the 'Hermes' but is still a good ship, or the 'Bennington', which is about the same displacement but perhaps 2 years older. Of course, this would have required extensive increases in the size of bases in the west of Australia, but at least it would have given us a naval squadron which was more than sufficient to ensure that Australia's interests in these areas were protected. Honourable senators opposite have taken the view that once there is a nuclear war, naval vessels, for some reason or another - I do not know who put this proposition to them - are obsolete. Nothing could be further from the truth, especially in relation to a modern naval aircraft carrier and properly screened vessel., which are capable of operating inside the area of nuclear fall-out. For those reasons I think it is sheer nonsense for our friends opposite to say that the navy is obsolete. I believe that even at this late stage some attempt should be made to obtain a fixed wing carrier for operation off the western coast of Australia. 
As I think was pointed out by  Senator Wheeldon  - I am in agreement with him on this, so I am a little worried; but it is indeed true - India is now closer to the 
Soviet Union as a result of the IndianPakistani clash. There is no doubt about that. A little time ago, of course, when India was being attacked by China it ran screaming to the United States for assislance. but al the present lime India's favours are certainly bestowed upon the Soviet Union. The report refers lo the possibility of India granting to the Soviet Union a base with full facilities at Vishakhapatnam. We have progressed a fair way since William Dampier first looked over the coast of Western Australia. It was extremely pleasing to hear the Minister for Air,  Senator Drake-Brockman,  outline the programme which he did in the Senate this evening. The entrance to the rodlan Ocean for the Soviet comes down from Vladivostok through the Java Sea or, of course, across from the Cape of Good Hope in South Africa. When I use the expression South Africa' it can then be seen how important Soviet interests regard the neutralisation of the Simonstown naval base or at least the proscribing of South Africa from the side of the West. 
I think I have said enough to indicate that this Committee's study is a sober and serious appreciation of the defence situation existing on our western coast. Before concluding, 1 cannot help but wonder whether the round table philosophy for settling international disputes of my good friend,  Senator O'Byrne.  with whom 1 spent a good deal of time at the United Nations, would be particularly attractive to the Czechs, the Hungarians, the Baits, the Poles, the Rumanians or the Ukrainians. 
I believe that tonight, in adverting to the report the Foreign Affairs Committee has placed before the chamber, we are making a breakthrough in a sense as it appears to me to be the first time the significance of the Indian Ocean has been studied by this chamber. In general I support the views outlined in the Committee's report, although in a couple of places I find it very difficult to see eye to eye with the Committee. For example, at one place the report states that the Soviet fleet is no threat to Australia but in the schedule it lists the vessels which have been using the Indian. Ocean for exercise purposes. These include modern guided missile cruisers, guided missile destroyers, guided missile frigates, conventional submarines and nuclear submarines. Having read that and having taken into account the views put forward by  Senator Carrick,  we must dismiss for all time the myth that all that the Soviet has in the Indian Ocean is a few armed trawlers. 
Since 1968 the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean has grown. When even the French who withdrew from the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and who last year welcomed so effusively Comrade Brezhnev in Paris - to those who doubt that. I commend the reading of M. Pom.pidou's speech of welcome at the banquet - when even the French who have gone along with the Russian's technologically in the matter of the mass media and electronic production see fit to send 6 ships to counter the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean, it can scarcely be claimed that we are crying wolf unnecessarily. 
The Soviet Union is a vast empire. It covers more than one-half of Europe and one-third of Asia. Over the past few decades it has made tremendous material and scientific progress. In the scientific field it has notched a number of firsts with its Sputniks. In the development of space research it originally led the United States and has been overtaken only in recent times. The Soviet leaders are people who read history. It is my belief that they have come to the decision that no great empire - that is what the Soviet is; it is an empire; it is the greatest colonial power of the twentieth century - can exist and spread its influence throughout the world without adequate naval forces.  1  realise that nuclear power has changed many things. Nothing can withstand a nuclear explosion but many modern naval vessels are capable of steaming through nuclear fallout. 
Going back only as fair as the last century, it was the Navy which stood between Napoleon and his domination of the world as it was then known in Europe. Napoleon never saw the weather beaten, storm tossed British ships but they stood between him and his domination of the world. In the 1914-18 war we saw again the tremendous impact of the Navy in bringing Germany to its knees. The British blockade of 1914-18 was a most powerful and effective weapon in destroying the ability of the Central powers to fight, by destroying what.  Senator Murphy  called their industrial power, lt is also true that the German counter blockade of 1917 very nearly brought Britain to her knees. Again in the Second World War there was the tremendously effective blockade enforced by the British and the American navies. One does not have to be Mandrake to believe that the Soviet leaders have recognised these facts. Their naval building programme has been phenomenal. At the present time, except in destroyers aand aircraft carriers, the Soviet outnumbers the United States Navy. It is believed, altough there is no certainty of it, that the Soviet Union is building its first aircraft carrier which is believed to be of about 45,000 or 50,000 tons, putting it in the class of the United States carrier 'Enterprise'. In these circumstances I do not think it is reasonable for our friends opposite to say that in drawing attention to the Soviet presence and the possibilities which emerge from it this is crying wolf. We know the warnings that Hitler gave to the world in the 1930s but no-one took any notice of them. Will we be just as dumb in the present situation? 
Paragraph 57 of the report is in these terms: 
The USSR must be involved in the Indian Ocean lo satisfy her own interests - nations form their foreign policy from the national interest. 
I have read the rest of the report but I can find no coercive argument for that statement. Paragraph 59 of the report is as follows: 
Essentially, the USSR's foreign policy has the following 3 objectives: 
The achievement and the maintenance of a strategic balance with the United States; 
The extension of Soviet influence both in. a military and an economic sense throughout the world in competition with the United States and other Western powers; and 
This is an interesting comment - 
The curtailment, as far as possible, of the influence of the People's Republic of China.  1 can find no warrant in the rest of the report for that contention and I propose to leave the matter rest at that. The Soviet fleet in the Indian Ocean at the present time - a month ago, at all events - was a relatively small number of ships. There was one destroyer, a couple of mine sweepers, a supply ship and an oiler - not exactly the type of fleet to strike terror into the heart of anyone, that I agree. But there are times, and there have been times in history, and there have been occasions even in our own century when even one gunboat has changed the whole issue of some combat, lt is not difficult to imagine that if even such a small fleet as the one T have mentioned had been standing off Indonesia's shores at the time of the Communist rebellion it. may well have changed the whole course of that country's history. 
Knowing the Soviet's history of aggression and subversion, no Australian can possibly welcome the arrival in our own waters of representatives of that power. Soviet naval activities are, to say the least, peculiar. For example, it is standard practice for a Soviet trawler to shadow NATO operations. It is standard practice for socalled trawlers to attempt to recover American space vehicles on their return to earth. 1 am informed on credible authority that one such trawler was rammed and sunk by an American destroyer in the course of an attempt to pick up American space equipment on its return to earth. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral examined the recent Press articles relating to the activities of the League of Rights? Is he able to say whether the statements in those articles are correct? Will he consider making an authoritative statement on the nature and activities of the League of Rights? 
Is the Minister representing the Postmaster-General aware that the current travelling allowance for the 2 part-time members of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is $28 a day whereas for the 3 permanent members of the Board, including the  Chairman,  it is only $21 a day? In view of the amount of travelling compulsorily undertaken by Board members, will the Minister undertake early action to correct this obvious anomaly? 
I support  Senator Wright's  amendment, but I do not feel that I should debate this matter, particularly having regard to what  Senator Murphy  has said. The principles involved are the same and I do not propose to traverse the same ground. I think it is suffice to say that I support the amendment. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Proposed new clause 5. 
 I support  Senator Wright's  amendment which appears lo me to be a manifestly just provision to protect those who risk their lives io protect society. I recall having discussions in Melbourne with the staff of a prison a few years back. The circumstances of the case were, that a policeman had been murdered in Caulfield in particularly revolting circumstances. The criminal wa.s apprehended, convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment. The warders whose duty it was lo guard this man were, on 2 subsequent occasions, murderously attacked - in one case with a knife and in /mother with an implement. So, there was no penalty whatever to deter this life sentence murderer from taking such revenge or such action as he saw fit against tho.&gt;e people in society who were discharging their duty of protecting the rest of the community. 
I refer now to the fact that the London police force, which of course is directly concerned with the murder rate in that large city, realising that the death penalty has been not abolished but suspended for an experimental period in England has requested the Government to restore the death penalty in the case of the murder of policemen. Why? Because since the death penalty was lifted the murder rate against policemen has increased by 500 per cent; 5 times as many policemen were murdered after the suspension of the death penalty as previously. 1 join with  Senator Wright  in supporting this amendment, whatever may bc said about the rest of the Bill. 1 do not propose to go back over that. The Committee has spoken on that. But I believe that justice would be served if  Senator Wright's  amendment were accepted by the Committee. 
I want to make it abundantly clear to my colleague  Senator Rae  that I as much as anyone in this chamber abhor and detest the very thought of executing a human being. But to me the point at issue is that I cannot see any normal, practical way, as  Senator Little  so clearly pointed out, of disciplining a felon who has absolutely nothing to lose. I cannot give names offhand because this position has arisen without notice, but 1 know of many physical attacks in Pentridge Gaol in Melbourne by people who cannot be disciplined in any other way. To my knowledge, 2 such cases were attempted murders. In one case, a guard was actually knifed but not killed. Can  Senator Rae  explain to this chamber how, short of invoking the death penalty - everybody loathes and hates the thought of it - a life sentence murderer can be deterred from going on a rampage? 
 I support the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Wright.I  do so because of the very enormity of the crimes.  Senator Murphy  has agreed that they are dreadful crimes. A person who hijacks or lakes control of an aircraft, or who places a bomb on an aircraft and then remains on the ground, commits a careful, cold blooded, calculated act. That is not something done in the heat of the moment. I understand that about 70 per cent of all murders are committed in the family circle. Usually they are the result of an act of temper, hot blood and a furious fight. But a person who hijacks an airliner or a person who puts a bomb in an airliner does so coldly and dispassionately for the purpose of obtaining financial reward. Surely the very fact that there is that motive should appeal to  Senator Murphy  and his cohorts. That is something done-- 
Does the honourable senator know what the word 'cohort' means? 
That is right; but that is not their sort of cohorts. I realise that  Senator Murphy's  motives in presenting this Bill have been of the highest order. I realise that he is moved by deeply humanitarian motives. I know that he is thinking of the welfare of the community. I think he believes that in having this Bill on the statute book he will be improving the quality of life in the community. I think 1 can go that far. But 1 think that he is in error. I think his heart' has overruled his head. I appeal to him to re-examine this matter. 
1 do not agree with  Senator Gair. Senator Murphy  has a heart. I make no disparaging remarks whatsoever about  Senator Murphy.  But I would ask him to re-examine his feelings in regard to this particularly modern offence. This is something that has not happened during the centuries. No tradition of hijacking has existed. The Romans and Greeks had no trouble with it 2,000 years ago. But the Greeks, the Arabs and the Israelis suffer a good deal of trouble with hijacking these days. In the last 2 days, Trans-World Airlines in the United States of America had to search 260 jet aircraft looking for bombs. Two bombs have already exploded in its aircraft. In the case of a person unlawfully taking control of an aircraft, we are faced with circumstances totally different from those involving a single murder. For those reasons, I ask  Senator Murphy  to reexamine his position and to support the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Wright. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that in the Commonwealth Public Service furlough is not paid to the legal representatives of a single person whereas it is paid to the representatives of a married person? If so, will the Minister undertake to examine and remove this strange anomaly? 
This is a question that should properly be referred to the Prime Minister's Department for examination. As we know, the Public Service Board, which has a big responsibility in this matter, is under the control of the Prime Minister's Department. I will have the question referred. 
1 support the Bill, which is a short procedural piece of legislation. The Bill is important as it deals with the personnel and promotion of members of the Commonwealth Public Service. The Bill amends section 50 of the Public Service Act 1922- 1968. There has always been in existence in the Commonwealth Public Service a system of appeals in which the right of a person appointed to a position to hold that position may be challenged by somebody who thinks that his qualifications are better or that he has a better entitlement to the job. 
This system has never occasioned very great difficulty in cases where the appellant and respondent are both resident in the one State. But the position with which the Bill attempts to deal is that of disposing of arguments arising where the provisional promotee is in one State and the challenger is in another. The Bill proposes to set up a committee to deal with such a situation. This body is to be constituted under the Public Service Act as a result of recommendations from the Joint Council, an employer-employee body. It is to have an independent  chairman,  one person nominated by the Permanent Head of the department to which the person is appointed and another person from the relevant staff association. In practice this new committee virtually will stand in between the Public Service Board and a State promotions appeal committee. The result will be that the committee so set up will virtually determine the appeal. The committee will then make a recommendation to the Public Service Board. The Government has introduced this proposal as a result of recommendations from the Joint Council. This action is some indication of the care which the Government exercises in respect of the proper marshalling and proper administration of the Commonwealth Public Service. A great deal of nonsense is spoken and written about public servants, but it is my belief that Australia is extremely well served by a dedicated band of public servants. It is necessary and desirable that their proper promotions and transfers be handled in an expeditious and just manner. 
If 1 may digress for a moment, the Commonwealth's concern is in sharp contradistinction to the views of the Australian Labor Party on the Public Service. In Adelaide last week it was proposed by the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party that a ceiling be placed on the salaries of persons in the upper levels of the Public Service. Honourable senators do not need to be magicians to realise that the telephones ran hot, telegrams ran hot and appeals were made to  Mr Hawke  and others in high positions. Finally, a telegram was sent from Canberra to Adelaide by the Public Service association here. That telegram stated: 
Public servants in Canberra greatly disturbed at reports of Federal Executive's wage freeze on upper Commonwealth salaries. We urge you to prevail on Federal Executives to exercise commonsense if your electoral chances are not to be destroyed. 
Signed Gordon Taylor 
When that telegram hit the deck panic prevailed and the proposal was pushed under the rug. I think, however, that we should contrast the care which the Government has shown in respect of the Public Service and the proposed control and worsening of Public Service conditions which may reasonably be expected to result from Labor administration. I support the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the present status of Australian diplomatic representation in Poland and is there any basis for the belief that this post is to be upgraded. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether his attention has been drawn to this morning's Press which carries an astonishing appeal by the honourable member for Lalor,  Dr J.  F. Cairns - who seems to be the Australian Labor Party spokesman on foreign affairs - for Australians to demonstrate in the streets in support of the North Vietnamese invasion of South Vietnam? In view of the continuing commitment in South Vietnam by our American allies with air force and naval units, does this mean that the Labor Party's foreign policy involves the tearing up of the ANZUS pact and the dishonouring of our foreign relations? 
I direct my remarks to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  who is the Minister in charge of matters of security. One unfortunate result of the fact that the more responsible daily newspapers do not publish in Melbourne on a Sunday is the fact that over a period of time the field has been left to other operators, certain - I repeat 'certain' because it does nor apply to them all - of whom have no morals, no ethics and no credibility whatsoever. The outright leader in the van of this type of gutter journalism is unquestionably the Review' which, selling for 30c, has as its  Chairman  of Directors one Gordon Barton whose political activities seem well equated with the type of material which the journal carries. I am not a regular reader of this undergraduate type of journal but my attention has been drawn to an amazing article on pages 698-9 of the issue of 8th- 14th April. It is headed 'Sunday Bloody Sunday' and purports to give a factual account of the activities of Croatian migrants and their organisations in Australia. The article is not signed and is so full of lies, half truths and distorted propaganda statements that it is not possible in the adjournment debate to traverse it in detail. 
I have vigorous objecion to physical violence used to promote a political argument. I disapprove of Croatian extremists in the same way as I disapprove of Communist thuggery anywhere, and especially the barbarity of the Vietcong. However, all Croatian migrants in this country have been smeared with the fascist tag by this scurrilous journal - an allegation which is thoroughly unfair and unjust. Without a scrap of evidence members of the Croatian community have been convicted by this journal, and certain members of the socialist Left of the Australian Labor Party in Victoria, of being fascist terrorists. 
To come to a concrete and specific set of examples I will limit my remarks to an incident about which I am fully informed personally. I refer to the case of Father Kasic referred to in the article. Father Kasic is a Croatian Catholic priest in charge of a parish at Clifton Hill, Melbourne. I know him to be intensely devoted to his pastoral duties, to possess a strong love of his mother country and to be firmly opposed to the evil of communism. He is also a client of mine. The Review' to which I referred states: 
The Reverend Father Josif Kasic was named in the 'Catholic Worker" (February 1963) as one of the main spokesmen for Catholic fascism (whatever that may be) in Australia. 
I interpolate here that anyone who is prepared to accept the 'Catholic Worker' as an authority on Catholic matters or work or fascism or anything else would be well advised to examine the validity of that authority. 
I quote again from the 'Review.' 
Opposition senators interjecting - 
The 'Review' continues: 
The same man was subsequently accused of being a fascist by Captain (sic) Marjan Jurjevic and a libel suit issued by the Church against Jurjevic was eventually withdrawn when the Reverend Father refused to enter the witness box. 
I want to nail that lie. What are the facts? Father Kasic has denied categorically any association with fascism or nazism and his character has been vindicated by his ecclesiastical superiors. I was the solicitor handling that libel case for Father Kasic; it was not on behalf of the Church. The facts are these: On 13th May 1964, the Australian Broadcasting Commission conducted a live, as opposed to taped interview with Jurjevic on Channel 2 in Melbourne. In those days Jurjevic was not calling himself 'Captain*. In the course of his remarks Jurjevic falsely alleged that Father Rasic was deeply involved in the fascist movement, was a terrorist and a war criminal. Within a few days Father Kasic issued a writ against Jurjevic and the ABC for libel. The matter dragged through the court, from the Supreme Court to the High Court of Australia, and was finally withdrawn upon the ABC making a handsome cash settlement and giving a written apology. Because of the terms of settlement I am not allowed to disclose the amount. It is a contemptible lie to say that the writ was withdrawn because Father Kasic would not enter the witness box. He had completely vindicated himself, and by this stage Jurjevic was being legally represented as a pauper by the Public Solicitor. What point would there have been in refusing the ABC settlement? 
The basis for the complaints against Father Kasic are made in substance by the gallant Captain Marian Jurjevic. Let us examine the record of the man who has produced these unfounded allegations and who is at present being so tenderly nurtured by  Dr Jim  Cairns and other members of the Labor Party in Victoria. My information comes from statements supplied for the legal brief for the libel action by Jurjevics' brother-in-law, Zumberasky, and his friend, Semiga. Jurjevic himself 10id them this. Jurjevic was born in Dalmatia on the Croatian coast in a town called Korcula in 1917. In the early stages of World War II he served in the Croation Domobran, which was the section of the Army used for home defence. About the beginning of 1943 Jurjevic escaped from the Domobran and joined the Nazi German armed forces. This was because at about this time some units of the Croatian Army had been loaned to the Germans for fighting on the Russian front. So he went to the German Embassy and, with the assistance of a Nazi officer, left the Embassy wearing a German uniform and went to Hamburg for training. He then served in the German Merchant Navy, which was a semi-military organisation, and was therefore a thoroughgoing Nazi collaborator. He returned to Croatia twice during 1944 still wearing a German uni form.  His  claim to have served with the British Navy during the war is simply untrue. This is the man who goes about prattling of war criminals and Nazi collaborators and has become the darling of the socialist Left in Victoria. 
There is a good deal of evidence from the Yugoslav Croatian community that Jurjevic has threatened some of his compatriots who disagree with him with deportation when the Labor Party comes to power, lt looks as though they will be staying here for a long time. There is a widely held belief in the Melbourne Croatian community that the bomb which recently exploded at his Carlton flat was put there by himself. I return to the 'Review* which further states: 
Kasic served a total of 6 years in 2 Yugoslav prisons before coming to Australia to take charge of the church at Clifton Hill. 
The inescapable inference from this sentence in its context is that he was guilty of war crimes. Let us examine the so-called crimes which were tried before a secret court martial. I have here a translation of the alleged crimes for which this Catholic priest received a 6-year sentence. I interpolate here that being a priest was his main offence. The court martial was held on 22nd May 1954 at Nis. He was found guilty, amongst a number of other piffling allegations, of the following heinous crimes: Firstly, he said that the quarrel between Tito and Stalin was only political. To say that was a crime. He said, secondly, that Cardinal Stepinac was the head of the Church and that no matter what was said he would respect him. It is an extraordinary thing to regard his saying that as a crime. He said: 'There is no democracy in our country but there is in America'. That is again a crime. The next is a gem. He said he disliked the speeches made by Comrade Raukovic and Comrade Tito in October 1953. Imagine what honourable senators opposite would think if one of them were prosecuted for saying that he did not like the speech made by Comrade McMahon last month. One has only to recite the facts to see how absurd they are. Gilbert and Sullivan never thought of anything as fatuous and nonsensical as this type of criminal proceeding which is used by this journal - words almost fail me - in condemnation of this man. The fifth charge was that the Italians had the support of the West and would retake Trieste and Italy would support a Ustashi Croatian Party. 
The sixth charge was that he said he would rather die than live like a slave. The seventh charge was that he said that Comrade Popovic is only Secretary for External Affairs because he is a Serb. The eighth charge - and this is really the star turn of the entire indictment - was that after the clash with Italy in October 1953 he told a joke with enemy content. This is the joke which was a crime in Tito's Yugoslavia. He said that Tito stood under his own photo which was hanging on the wall and asked it "what will happen if we lose the war with Italy?' The picture replied: if we lose they will take me down and hang you'. Telling that joke was a crime. The ninth charge was that he referred to the expulsion of some nuns from Skopse and said: 'This is the freedom the Government guarantees - one thing is written and the other thing done'. These and a few other piffling items are what brought Father Kasic a sentence of 6 years' strict imprisonment, plus one year's loss of citizens rights, whatever that may mean in a communist country. God only knows what that means in that country. He had to pay costs - j do not know what the coinage is worth- of 9850 din 
Of course Father Kasic is anticommunist. If this unjust sentence was not enough, he saw his father murdered by Tito's communists because he would not teach in a communist school. Of course he is anticommunist. He saw his cousin roasted on a spit like an animal because he opposed communist policies in Yugoslavia. Of course he is anti-communist. He saw his Bishop thrown into a 3-ft pit half full of petrol. He saw a match thrown in afterwards. 
The honourable senator will have to do a lot better than that to rebut this. As a matter of public importance my plea to the Senate and to the Attorney-General is that all Croatian migrants be not smeared as murdering terrorists by Jurjevic and his political asso ciates of the Australian Labor Party and that those Croatians who want to make their homes here, in peace, whilst retaining their love of homeland, be allowed to do so without the persecution of Tito's agents or any agents provocateurs. 
It is quite easy to understand why baseless, phoney charges are levelled against the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  so often. The reason is that he has the uncanny knack of putting his finger on the weakness, the hypocrisy and the humbug which seeps right through all the nonsense we have heard from the other side tonight. We have listened to a Gilbert and Sullivan clownish exhibition from 

 Senator Wheeldon. That sort of garbage is an insult to this chamber. I will not bother to deal with this nonsense. My friend  Senator Douglas  McClelland normally puts forward a saner point of view in this chamber. Regrettable, though it may be I have to disagree with him this evening. The whole point is that the AttorneyGeneral has pointed out that there is no evidence against the Rhodesian Centre. 
If honourable senators opposite, who are interjecting, do not like a country or a philosophy, they do not need evidence to convict it; that are happy to convict it on say-so. I remember a very great Labor Prime Minister, Ben Chifley, who, when confronted with certain evidence that the United States Government was not disclosing things as fully to Australia as it might, because of certain attitudes of the Labor Government, said 'This information was either stolen or forged and I disregard it', and that was the end of it. On its own assessment, the gentleman who produced the so-called evidence against the Rhodesian Centre had stolen it. I quote Ben Chifley on that and ignore the rest of what he had to say. 
The Attorney-General has been completely and absolutely proper, but if honourable senators opposite are concerned with the organisations that work in this country, J draw their attention to the fact that Great Britain, a tolerant country, has recently had to expel 105 Soviet 'diplomats'. They mainly came from the Soviet trade delegation in Great Britain. Bolivia found it necessary a fortnight ago to expel 115 Soviet trade delegates. What on earth 115 Soviet trade delegates were doing in Bolivia is beyond me completely. Those gentlemen might have been more gainfully employed. Honourable senators opposite are joining in a chorus of interjections. I do not mind taking them on one al a time but when the jackels yell all together I find it difficult. If honourable senators opposite were genuinely concerned with organisations operating in this country they might well ask themselves what has happened in Britain and in Bolivia. We are about to set  up  in this country a full-scale embassy from Poland. I disapprove of this. It is reasonable to assume that most of those characters will be trade delegates.  (Senator Poyser interjecting)  - 
He is under a very great strain,  Mr President,  because of the Victorian Council of the ALP. The Victorian Council of the ALP has placed poor  Senator Poyser, Senator Brown  and my friend  Senator Primmer  under a great strain at the moment. 
Have 1 your permission to continue,  Mr President? 
As I said, this has caused a great strain on honourable gentlemen opposite since the State Council of the Labor Party has aligned itself so openly and so flagrantly with the enemies of this country and with the enemies of our allies. 
 I can understand why honourable senators opposite are a little tender on this point, lt shows that the Labor Party is now quite capable of snatching defeat from the jaws of victory. I am going to finish this powerful pronunciomento. I am sick and tired of hearing honourable senators stand up and, in voices dripping with synthetic emotion, declaim about some young man whose conscience has driven him to the Bastille - some young man who would take imprisonment rather than comply with the National Service Act. The admiration which they have is strangely selective. What they should remember is that some - I do not say all  -  of these young gentlemen found that it would be much cosier in an Australian gaol than in the swamps of Vietnam. That is something which cannot be overlooked. That being the case, the hypocrisy opposite is obvious. It is blatant. And the attacks upon the AttorneyGeneral are wholly baseless and false. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister: 
Is it a fact that in the Commonwealth Public Service furlough is not paid to the legal representatives of a single person whereas it is paid to the representatives of a married person. If so, will the Minister undertake to examine and remove this strange anomaly. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science been drawn to recent Press reports stating that certain rebel students had occupied the administration buildings at La Trobe University for a period of days until recently, thus obstructing the operation of that university? Has the Minister's attention also been drawn lo Press reports that among the students lying in, occupying the administration rooms and corridors of La Trobe University and discussing further action on and supporting the improper occupation was a so-called student named William Hartley, former Secretary of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party, a branch which will be remembered? Is the Minister able to say whether this is the same  Mr Hartley  who is presently a member of the Federal Executive and the Federal Conference of the ALP? Is it  a  fact that between biennial conferences the Federal Executive of the ALP interprets Labor policy and directs ALP parliamentarians how to vote? 
You will do your endorsement. Is the Minister able to state whether an education policy dictated partly by a gentleman who takes part in improper occupation of university premises and so prevents its proper functioning would be in the genuine interests of Australian students? 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, we have just witnessed a most extraordinary exhibition.  Senator Bishop,  to whomI ascribe the virtue of sincerity, a man interested in the welfare of an Australian industry, has put forward a motion related to the Australian aircraft industry. Before my friend  Senator Mulvihill  resumed his seat only  4  of his colleagues were prepared to listen to his important motion. (Honourable senators opposite interjecting) - 
The ACTING DEPUTYPRESIDENT  (Senator Lawrie)  - Order! 
 I did' not put the motion down. I do not know why it happens that so frequently when I have pearls to place before this chamber I am interrupted by honourable senators opposite.  Senator Bishop  has adverted to a very serious and important question in our industrial life and in our defence life. To that, extent I give him credit. Unfortunately I cannot go along with  Senator Bishop  in the words and the attitudes that he expressed. 
Can I have a fair go? I was very quiet when you were speaking. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! There is far too much conversation in the chamber. The honourable senator will be heard in silence. I call  Senator Hannan. 
I am indeed grateful to you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  for your protection, which apparently I need so badly. 
Wait until I am finished with you to see whether or not I am a filler inner. I want to refer firstly, before getting around to some of the nonsense which has emanated from the official Opposition, to the 2 difficult matters to which my friend  Senator McManus  referred but which I could not understand. The point which  Senator McManus  made in regard to Project N could be valid if the Royal Australian Air Force and the Army had completed their evaluations of this extremely important project. But in truth and in fact, as the honourable senator must know, that evaluation has not yet been done. Approximately 99 per cent of the production from the Government Aircraft Factories, the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd and the Hawker Siddeley company is in respect of military aircraft. Unless the Defence forces have a requirement for Project N and unless we have very many overseas purchasers rushing in, wanting to put their dollars down and saying, 'Look, we will have a dozen or a couple of dozen of these aircraft', it would be the height of folly to become involved in a project of this kind. 
The other matter to which my friend adverted, perhaps casually, was the fact that we were not producing helicopters. As you will know,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  we are producing - admittedly it is over a period of time - 75 light helicopters for the Army and 116 helicopters for civilian use. This is not peanuts in an industry which produces this highly complex and most valuable equipment. As I said before, almost the entire output from the Government Aircraft Factories, the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Hawker Siddeley company are military aircraft. This is what puzzles me. These aircraft are needed for defence purpose. One does not need to be Mandrake to know that the Australian Labor Party has no defence policy. That being the case, how on earth can it show any interest in the production of aircraft from CAC, GAF or Hawker Siddeley for defence? To find the answer we do not have to look further than the events which occurred last weekend at the Victorian State Council of the ALP and its appalling decision on Vietnam. We do not have to go beyond the treachery of that decision to know how little interest the official opposition has in defence, foreign affairs and our relations with our great and powerful friends. That being the case, I find it a little difficult to understand why- 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
It is not difficult to understand the sensitivity of my friend  Senator Cavanagh  in relation to these matters which indicate quite clearly that the Australian Labor Party is not interested in defence and is not interested in foreign affairs. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  -  Senator Hannan,  I suggest you keep your remarks a little closer to the motion before the Senate. 
Opposition senators - Hear! hear! 
 1 am glad to hear the cheers which indicate that my honourable friends opposite so value your protection,  Mr Acting Deputy President. 
 You will have to do better than that. That is childish. For the past 35, almost 40, years the aircraft industry in Australia has revolved around and been economically dependant upon orders from the Royal Australian Air Force. The entire industry seems to revolve around the large factories - Government Aircraft Factories, Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation - which are situated in the predominant manufacturing area of Australia, namely, Melbourne, Victoria, around which the whole nation seems to revolve in an industrial sense, and the minor production is done in Sydney by the Hawker Siddeley company. When these 3 large contractors are put together, along with the 10 or 15 other parts contractors, we find that we have the nucleus of a small, viable, highly developed aircraft industry. That being the case, it is not surprising that of the 1,300 aircraft recently purchased by the RAAF 1,000 were manufactured in Australia. If this is neglecting an industry, I think words have lost their meaning. It is not possible to take seriously the criticism in that regard. In addition the decision was made recently - it was not quite so recently - to build Macchi all-through jet trainers. It has been necessary to buy the relatively small number of aircraft which have been purchased abroad because of the type of aircraft involved. We did not have an adequate run of production to set up jigs, assembly and manufacture in this country. Does any honourable senator opposite suggest that we should have got involved in the manufacture of Mysteres or BAC Ills or aircraft of that type? 
In the financial year 1970-71 the RAAF spent 74 per cent of its budget on Australian production. In addition to the money spent with major contractors we have a vast number, almost 200, minor suppliers of bits and pieces and so forth who have contributed their share towards the maintenance of the Australian aircraft industry. There is one particularly interesting policy which has been adopted by the 
Royal Australian Air Force under the present enlightened administration of the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  and that is this: If it is necessary to buy aircraft or components abroad on one particular occasion, at a later date if that order has to be repeated a search and check is carried out first to see whether the aircraft or equipment is available in Australia. Australian firms are given the opportunity of fulfilling the order before the matter is finalised overseas. 
Another relatively small aspect when one considers the capital cost of aircraft is the Government's policy on offset orders. When the Government has ordered aircraft abroad, as it has done from the Boeing organisation, it has arranged for offset orders to be placed for portions of the aircraft. These are set off against the total debit for the purchase. In Australia we manufacture rudders, elevators and in spar ribs for Boeing 727 aircraft. You will be interested to know,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that Australia now is the sole source of supply for rudders, elevators and in spar ribs for Boeing 727 aircraft. There are other examples of offset orders which I could give. The United Aircraft Corporation of America already has placed orders in Australia worth $165,000 and is currently negotiating further contracts for aero-engine components. I am not going to be foolish and say that this is the greatest industrial feat of the 20th century but it does mean that the aircraft industry in Australia is receiving sustenance as a result of the Government's policy. In the long term it means also that because of the close involvement of our manufacturers with overseas manufacturers, which have all the technological assets which the American and French nations, for example, can provide, our industries increasingly are drawn into the main stream of world development. 
The Australian aircraft industry has developed a number of firsts. I want initially to refer to what I regard as one of the more outstanding successes of Australian designers and aero-engineers. I refer to the Jindivik pilotless target aircraft. As you would appreciate,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  it is not very pleasant to fly an aircraft with a drogue trailing at the real and to have people firing anti-aricraft shells at the drogue. That being the case the people at our range in South Australia developed the Jindivik. This is a pilotless jet aircraft which tows a target drogue. It has been so successful that the American Government has placed orders for it. I recall seeing a sound film made by the American Department of the Navy before the Jindivik was sold. It was a great triumph for Australian scientists, engineers and manufacturers to compete successfully with American defence manufacturers, having in mind that, by congressional order, overseas orders are not placed for defence equipment unless it is absolutely necessary. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order! The hor  Durable  senator's time has expired. 
I like to speak well of everybody but some people make it very hard for me to do so, and the remarks of  Senator Wheeldon  make it almost impossible. We have had a typical clowning performance from the honourable senator. Early in his speech he indicated that he did not like the organisation called Peace for Freedom because most of his policies and the policies of his Party are directed towards peace, or rather the absence of struggle, against communist subversion or aggression. 
The only mild allegation in the whole of this scurrilous little journal to which I propose to advert is the sheer nonsense of the suggestion that  Mr Kevin  Cairns, the Minister for Housing, would actively connive at reducing the Liberal vote. One has only to state the proposition to see how absurd it is. The Minister holds the seat of Lilley. Lilley is a swinging seat. He is elected only some days after the vote is held. The result is never known on the Saturday night of the election. Lilley is one of the most doubtful seats in the Com- monwealth yet this nonsensical rag puts up the proposition that this man deliberately connived at risking his own seat. It is a ridiculous exercise in political brinkmanship, if I can use a word so beloved of our friends on the left. I spent a long time with  Senator Justin  O'Byrne at the United Nations in New York, and I had hoped that my long association with him and the tutelage he received from me would have given him more sense. I am sorry that he has fallen for the childish scribblings of National U'. One of the odd things about this whole proposition is that honourable senators opposite fail to see communist subversion where it exists; they fail to Observe a civil disorder; they encourage and incite riots, industrial disputes and disturbances, and they are completely unaffected. Contrast that with what Shakespear said: 
Then  i,  and you. and all of us fell down, Whilst bloody treason flourish'd over us. 
But they do not even look up. That is the sort of absurd nonsense which has brought the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  to the table this evening. In a slightly hyperbolic sense that is what has happened here. I admire  Senator Murphy's  tender solicitude for democracy. It does him credit. He is normally a kindly man. I am sure he is good to his immediate family. He is courteous to government senators and to people generally, and a man full of the milk of human kindness. One realises from the half-hearted and dispirited way in which he put up this nonsense this evening that he was reading from a brief in which he did not believe. Perhaps his motives this evening may have been a little less than praiseworthy. I have had a quick look at this 'National U' nonsense. I would not hang a dog on everything that I have read in it. J notice that one portion of the article was written, I think, by a man called Zerman who was lapping around  Mr Whitlam  in King's Hall like a puppy a few days ago. Of course, anyone is accused of being in the right wing if he wears a collar and a tie, or if he fails to pull the forelock to left wing subversion. Professor McAuley is a prime target for this sort of rubbish. He is the man who went on record as saying - he proved his point on a programme of the Australian Broadcasting Commission - that it is much easier to manipulate students than the Waterside Workers Federation. Of course, this made him a prime target. 1 do not think it is necessary for me to trace the sort of policies subscribed to by the students who felt it their national duty to produce this nonsense on ABC national television tonight and in their newspaper. They are largely Labor Party policies - support of draft resisters; opposition to national service; conniving at the breaking of the law; the destruction, as far as possible, of Australia's defence arrangements, and actually collecting money and sending it to the enemy in Haiphong. They are the sort of people who have put this rag together. Notice the people whom the Leader of the Opposition and other honourable senators attack. One is Geoffrey Fairbairn. Of course, they would attack him. He has torn their policy on Vietnam to ribbons time and again. Owen Harries is another. Of course, they would attack Harries. He has torn their policy to ribbons so often that it cannot be debated. Then we move to the smear on Kevin Cairns. I think this is contemptible, especially on the evidence which has been adduced. Being of a kindly disposition I would not suggest that the Leader of the Opposition was motivated by any thought of the Shortland pre-selection. 1 feel that perhaps he might have enlightened us in regard to that matter off his own bat. That is one of the matters which a person may feel is worthy of discussion or thought in this debate. 
I listened with great care as the Leader of the Opposition listed the policies of this group. I do not. know its members. I know some of the men in it personally and I am proud to know them but I do not know their organisation. I do not know what they do. The suggestion that it is a secret organisation working for the destruction of democracy is so absurd that I feel that the Leader of the Opposition must have been joking. Most of the matters mentioned in the newspaper refer to defence, foreign policy, the influence of communist subversion in Australia, the Vietnam war - all matters which are good solid points of Liberal Party policy. What is wrong with that? What is wrong with the suggestion that the group should work against an ALP victory? I think it is the bounden duty of every sane elector in this country to work in the same way, and  1  am sure that at the end of the year that is what they will do. 
This worry sits very oddly, as I have said, on the shoulders of my friend,  Senator Murphy.  He is worried about the attack on democracy in Australia.  His  party is committed to electing a draft resister, a draft dodger, in the electorate of Hotham in Victoria. In another place his leader  -  I use the word in a whimsical sense - says that draft dodging is no crime. In my own State, George Crawford and Bill Hartley, just fresh from his unlawful occupation at the La Trobe University - are still powerful influential men in the Victorian State Council of the Australian Labor Party. Their lamentable and deplorable resolution supporting the North Vietnamese aggression against our own 150 instructors who are still in Vietnam, our American allies whose naval, air and sea forces are involved, and our South Vietnamese allies alongside whom so many of our own men fought and lied, is only echoing what was said by  Dr J.  F. Cairns in another place in a speech on which  Mr Whitlam  congratulated him. Of course, when  Mr Whitlam  saw the political disaster that faced this resolution he had to try in some vague way to disown it. but no amount of white washing and no amount of hindsight will get away from the fact that the Party to which the Leader of the Opposition belongs is not interested in the defence of this nation. Being a man of few words, I simply say to  Senator Murphy:  Physician, heal thyself. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that a roneoed sheet, unsigned but containing a number of names, is being handed out at Templestowe Primary School, attacking national service and purporting to lionise a particular teacher? Is he aware that to ensure that each child receives a copy of this scurrilous publication the children are directed to a particular exit from the school by a group of parents? I ask whether he is aware that amongst a welter of untruths the document states in part: 
Because the Government knows that there is widespread opposition to its conscription policy it has selectively prosecuted draft resisters. Only a small fraction of the total number defying the Act have been prosecuted. 
What action is the Attorney-General able to take to present the truth to the children of Templestowe Primary School in these circumstances? 
 I want to astound  Senator Poyser  by supporting his speech to the Senate tonight Perhaps it would be more accurate if I said I support carefully selected extracts from his speech. I also received a letter from the Renold chain people but I did not wait to bring the matter up in the Senate in a debate on the motion for the adjournment. I have referred it already to the relevant Minister and have had an acknowledgment from his Department. The matter is under consideration. It is true, as  Senator Poyser  said, that this industry is of vital significance to Benalla. The town is partly dependent upon it industrially. Benalla is one of those thriving north-eastern towns which Victoria has produced as a model for the rest of Australia. It would be a great pity if this important decentralised industry were to fade for lack of tariff protection. It is my hope that, partly as a result of what  Senator Poyser  has said and my own modest contribution, the matter will be attended to speedily. ' 
I was diverted slightly by what  Senator McLaren  said. He should know, if he has been attending to affairs of state, that the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  returned to Australia only on Monday night and to Canberra on Tuesday. He has been conducting a trade mission in South America. It would not surprise me at all if he had attempted to find a market for Renold's chains in South America. I express great personal regret that this matter has had to be dealt with on the basis of partisan party politics. y*ou,  Mr President,  well know that in respect of matters of high national significance we on this side eschew party politics. After listening to the drivelling nonsense uttered by my friend  Senator McLaren  it is very difficult to believe that the honourable senator from South Australia has a genuine interest in the welfare of this north eastern Victorian town. 
Well, Victoria has had to bear a lot of crosses but it has been relieved of that one. To return to a serious note before concluding my speech, the matters raised by  Senator Poyser  are worthy of serious and sober consideration by all honourable senators, not only those representing Victoria. All parties contain in their platform the doctrine of decentralisation. We have appropriate machinery to arrange action in cases of emergency to prevent the collapse of such a significant industry. I have no doubt that the  Deputy  Prime Minister will show the same alacrity, diligence and ability in handling this emergency as he has shown in dealing with many other things, such as the wool problems facing the nation and other matters allied to rural development. I do not want to be side-tracked by interjections,  Mr President,  and to go on and outline the magnificent recovery made in so many sections of our rural industries as a result of this Government's encouragement and assistance. I do not want to detain the Senate for an hour or two while I run through the very lengthy catalogue of successful Government endeavours to restore this basic part of Australia's national industry. I close by expressing the hope that quick emergency action will be taken to save the industry. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. My question is supplementary to that asked by  Senator Murphy.  Is it not a fact that the Secretary-General of the United Nations,  Dr Kurt  Waldheim, attempted to call an emergency meeting of the Security Council yesterday on the Vietnam situation? Is it not a fact that the Soviet Ambassador to the United Nations declined to attend such a meeting on the ground that such a meeting was unnecessary? 
 I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act to forbid the sale or distribution of the book known as 'The Little Red Schoolbook' in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
I direct a question to you,  Mr Deputy President.  Is it not a fact that sometimes, perhaps in an excess of zeal, speeches purporting to be questions are made by honourable senators opposite? (Opposition senators interjecting) - 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT - If the 
Senate will come to order we will proceed. 
Shall I repeat the question? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- No. 
Is it not a fact that such speeches do not seek information and are habitually loaded with political propaganda, inaccurate facts and unwarranted innuendo? If you should happen to detect one of those speeches from time to time,  Sir, what  would be the appropriate course of action? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I am always deeply appreciative of help from either side of the chamber. In this case suffice to say that the honourable senator may leave the matter to my judgment. 
Does the Minister representing the Postmaster-General recall that some weeks ago I asked a question querying the delay in the correcting of anomalies in the payment of travelling allowance to permanent members of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board? I realise that the Minister's colleague, the Postmaster-General, has been away ill for some time, but can he advise when he will be able to secure an answer for me from his colleague who recently returned to duty? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an extraordinary statement in this morning's Press by a Yugoslav diplomat, Counsellor A.  Stambolija  of the Yugoslav Embassy, that 'in the past the Australian Government had shown an incomprehensible tolerance towards some Croats in Australia, and that 10 or 20 people should have their  passports cancelled?' Will the Minister advise this representative of a communist dictatorship that this is a free country and that the question of Australian passports will be determined by its democratically elected government without communist assistance? 
We have heard a great deal of nonsense this evening from people who pretend to be outraged by matters which they have adduced before the Parliament.  Senator Gietzelt  says that an innocent party has been outraged. How silly can one get! This man obviously has been part of a charade. He has attempted to commit a public mischief and, in the words of those who publish the protest literature, he must pay the normal legal penalty. If he is such a religious man as  Senator Gietzelt  suggests - perhaps a disciple of St Francis - he has his remedy in the very liberal sections of the National Service Act relating to conscientious objection. When  Senator Gietzelt  says he considers a man of this type the salt of the earth, I cannot help but wonder what type of defence administration we might expect from a government to which  Senator Gietzelt  would be a significant adviser. He talks about such people being the salt of the earth. I think he may have the word 'salt' mixed up with the word dregs'. I do not want to waste time on what the honourable senator was saying. 
It distresses me beyond measure that a man of the erudition and intelligence of  Senator Turnbull  and my friend  Senator O'Byrne  can speak in the way in which they have spoken. It distresses me because both  Senator Turnbull  and  Senator O'Byrne  had the benefit of my tuition for about2½ months while they were in my company in New York. I expounded to them matters of significance in relation to political philosophy. Honourable senators can imagine my chagrin when my proteges come here this evening and in public talk the nonsense they have. I feel that my tuition has been wasted. As a student of Thomas Gray you will remember,  Mr Deputy President,  that he said: 
Full many a flower is born to blush unseen, 
And waste its sweetness on the desert air. 
That appears to be what has happened  to the careful and conscientious tuition which I gave to  Senator Turnbull  and  Senator O'Byrne. 
I should now like to come to the events of midday today. I have some knowledge of what is necessary to arrange for an extensive television coverage of a set-up event. This was a fraud. It was one of those synthetic news making episodes in which those who have attempted to make a farce of the national legislation in respect of national service have become so adept. What I cannot understand is the tender solicitude of honourable senators opposite towards those who are prepared to make a farce of legislation which initially in  1964  the Labor Party supported. Originally the Labor Party supported the national service legislation but now its members seem to go out of their way to support those who attempt to destroy it. Today's events were merely a thinly veiled attack upon the Attorney-General whose courage and integrity have been a constant thorn in the sides of people who oppose the National Service Act. The incident of this character Shanley pretending to be someone else was intended to be extremely funny but the joke rebounded. This has been another example of grandstanding and now, when the chickens have come home to roost, senators in this chamber are attempting to protect those poor downtrodden people who claim their civil rights are being affronted. 
Do not talk nonsense. These are innocent simple minded people. I do not say that this particular person is an innocent simple minded person but that is the type of peace loving person who has paraded in Collins Street, Melbourne and helped to smash thousands of dollars worth of windows and in the past has attempted to destroy the American Consulate in Commerial Road. These are the people to whose aid honourable senators opposite are only too willing to rush. For that reason I find it extremely difficult to understand their motives. They come to this Parliament sworn to support the legislation of this country and sworn to protect its security and integrity. I must dismiss the contributions we have heard this evening from my friends  Senator Turnbull, Senator O'Byrne  and  Senator Geitzelt  as arrant nonsense. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Prescinding entirely from the disgrace of allowing the vessel into our ports at all, is it a fact that the Russian freighter named 'Ho Chi Minh' recently had a black ban placed on it by the Australian Council of Trade Unions or other organisation? Was such black ban placed upon the vessel because the Russians insisted upon doing work usually done by Australian workers? Is it a fact that such black ban has now been lifted? If so, can the Minister advise whether any legal steps were taken, and by whom, to have such black ban on the Russian vessel lifted, or were any extra-legal steps taken? Is the control of vessels entering our ports a Federal or State responsibility? 
I welcome the amendments and improvements to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which are proposed by this Bill. Before dealing with the Bill, which perhaps might be a revolutionary development in this chamber this evening, .1 think I should traverse one or two points made by my friend  Senator Milliner,  who is a kind, well meaning soul. The honourable senator astonished us this evening by his venture into the class struggle. How could he say that people on this side of the chamber are interested in conciliation only for the purpose of knocking down the worker? Does he not know that very nearly one-half - it is not quite one-half - of the trade unionists of this country vote for the Government parties? If the honourable senator wants precise figures I shall give him the figures which I recall seeing following the last gallup poll. They revealed that of the trade unionists in this country 38 per cent voted for the Liberal and Country Parties and 41 per cent of their wives voted in a similar fashion, which may mean that women are more intelligent than men. However, I leave those figures with my friend  Senator Milliner  for his consideration. 
From the results of a gallup poll. I do not have the document with me but the honourable senator can check the figures with the Parliamentary Library. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - Order! 1 am reluctant to interrupt an honourable senator when he is speaking, irrespective of from which side of the chamber he speaks, but I ask honourable senators to allow the honourable senator who has the call the opportunity to express his viewpoint without these constant interjections from both sides of the Senate. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I appreciate your courtesy and impartiality. Some reference was made tonight by my friend  Senator Milliner  to the salary of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  I was a little surprised that: this comment should come from an honourable senator opposite because on the occasion last year when the Government refused to increase parliamentary salaries the wailing and the gnashing of teeth that came from honourable senators opposite was piteous to hear and a frightful sight to behold. My friend  Senator Milliner  had occasion also to paint a rather dramatic picture of the poor downtrodden and oppressed worker coming home from his honest day's toil only to find that prices have gone up. What  Senator Milliner  did not tell us - I know this was purely an oversight because his honesty and his integrity are unchallenged - was that 85 per cent of the cost of the goods to the worker was comprised of actual wages, lt is true that they are somebody else's wages - not his. But I am not one of those people who believe that the whole blame for cost-push inflation rests on the shoulders of the workers. I do not believe that at all. I am quite prepared and willing to concede that there are avaricious employers who are quite prepared to take the community for a ride if given the opportunity to do so. But one has to be fair and impartial in these matters. 
So far as the objection to the merger of employer organisations is concerned, honourable senators opposite will recall that this very afternoon in this very chamber the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  put down a statement in which he set out a proposal for legislation which will proscribe mergers which are not in the public interest. The statement, which dealt with a number of other matters also, was very lengthy and I cannot traverse it in toto. 
Knock it off. This statement was a forerunner of legislation to come. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - Order! I am sorry to interrupt the honourable senator, but again I ask that these constant interjections cease. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President. 
I have to traverse the nonsense that has been put before me. My friend  Senator Mulvihill  who also, as I have said of my friend  Senator Milliner,  is a kind, well-meaning soul, but the argument that the union has to pay for these unfortunate ballots which they will be compelled to conduct. 1 suggest that  Senator Mulvihill  look at proposed new section 158T(1.) and (2.) in the Bill. When he does so 1 think he will no longer adhere to that preposterous proposition. I believe that this Bill is a charter designed to keep capital and labour working harmoniously for the national well being. In order to show the impartiality of the Government in relation to these matters I again refer honourable senators to the lengthy and impressive proposals put before this chamber this afternoon by the Attorney-General. 
Nationally both parties are committed, more or less - us more, the others less - to a policy of conciliation and arbitration in industrial matters. Once outside the framework of the conciliation and arbitration system the law of the jungle operates. The big strong unions and the big strong employers are able to drive the weaker workers and the weaker employer organisations to the wall. Hence it is clear that both sides of industry are affected. Perhaps the most important side of industry, if we can have a triangle and a third side, is the consumer. Industry exists in all circumstances only to provide goods or services for a consumer. Without a consumer there is no industry. Of course, one of the big troubles of honourable senators opposite is that they are not active trade unionists and they do not know very much about what goes on inside unions. 1 do not suppose half a dozen honourable senators opposite could produce their union cards. 
How many honourable senators opposite have a union card with them here tonight? 
I have counted 6 honourable senators opposite who say they can produce a union card. I said that there would not be half a dozen, but I now say that there would not be 7 of them. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - Order! I do not want to interrupt the honourable senator again but there does happen to be 7 - there is one in the chair. 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  I will go back and say that I would not mind betting that there are not 8. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
I do not see how the honourable senator opposite can find it objectionable that only a very small number of his colleagues have their union cards with them. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - I suggest that the honourable senator concentrate his attention on the subject matter of the Bill. 
I wanted to nail the canard that people on this side of the chamber are not interested in union affairs. 1 have been an active member of my union for at least IS years. I know what goes on in unions. 
Knock it off. You heard what the Acting  Deputy President  said. One of the big difficulties is that people can get out of touch with union affairs. 1 have no doubt that many honourable senators opposite have been very active in their unions in the past. They know something about what goes on in union meetings. They get elected to the Senate as a result of a secret ballot so 1 do not know what they find so objectionable about secret ballots. Then they lose touch with industrial organisations by which they rose to this place. That is why we have heard so much nonsense levelled this evening against the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. 
No. It is represented on it. You,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  will know that my union is a left wing union. It is not a tame cat union. 
Do you want me to table my card? 
All right. I will table my card in Actors Equity. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! I point out to the honourable senator that he is not entitled to table the document. 
Opposition senators asked me to do so. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTThe honourable senator can inform Opposition senators accordingly in due course outside this chamber after he has completed his speech. 
In deference to your ruling,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I withdraw my union card. 
Yes, I am. I have no intention of discussing many of the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which make this Bill such a milestone in our industrial legislation. I propose to concentrate on some of the more outstanding aspects of the Bill. In it we have a sharp break with tradition in the fact that a  Deputy President  may be a non-lawyer. As a simple suburban lawyer myself, I commend this decision to welcome into the ranks of  Deputy  Presidents men with a university degree or substantial knowledge and experience in industrial and economic affairs. The question of equality before the law is a matter which the Government and the draftsman had in mind when traversing the whole of the 69 clauses in this Bill. The Government proposes to make all people equal before the law. The provisions in respect of financial assistance for those who feel that their executive has not done the right thing, the holding of secret ballots and other things, are the hallmark of a Liberal administration. 
I want to contrast that approach to industrial affairs with the Australian Labor Party's approach to such matters. I want to say this slowly so that my honourable friends on the Opposition side will be able to take it in. At Townsville in December 197! the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party resolved that when it became the Government - should that cataclysm ever happen - 'union should be immune for actions in common law against private or civil wrongs alleged to have been committed by or on behalf of a trade union in furtherance of a trade dispute'. In other words, provided there is a strike, people can burn motor cars, smash windows, assault people and trespass on property. If this is done by a trade union officer in the course of a dispute he is to be immune from actions for damages and he is to be immune from actions in tort. This is a most extradordinary proposal. It has the effect of placing trade union officers and trade unionist above the law. 1 believe that members of my trade union need protection but they do not need that sort of protection. Another decision of the Federal Executive meeting in December 1971 was: 
We declare our total opposition to the retention of strike penalties in the (Conciliation and Arbitration) Act, and affirm that a Labor Government will remove these provisions from the Act. 
In other words, the Labor Party is saying that there must be one law for the employer and another for the employee.  Mr Egerton,  who would be known to one or two honourable senators opposite, said on 3rd August 1971: 
The trade union movement must insist on j, right to be more than just an industrial body looking after the industrial demands of its members. Unions must make it clear that they have a right to interfere in the political movement of the nation. 

 Mr Egerton said that on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's national news. I believe that the normal union organiser has the right to protect his men, to make sure that they are not exploited and to take every advantage of industrial legislation which this Government, in the main, has introduced to protect the rights of workers. We find that unfortunately this point of view is not shared completely by those who have something to do with running the industrial affairs of unions. I refer now to a statement made by  Mr P.  Clancy in support of  Mr R.  J. Hawke's presidency of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. He said: 
We want an ACTU that will . . . draw the workers into action in the various forms at every opportunity. 
I am glad to hear that exclamation: I hope that Hansard heard it. That was the statement made by  Mr Clancy  on 16th July 1961. He, of course, is from the pro-Soviet socialist party of Australia. I refer now to another trade union officer, Laurie Carmichael of  the  Amalgamated Engineering Union and the Communist Party of Australia. What did Comrade Carmichael have to say? He said: 
Workers need to be convinced of the need for strikes, demonstrations and the occupation of institutions and factories . . . It's the primary aim of all my activity. 
Honourable senators opposite will stand and defend this man as someone who is interested in the welfare of our national industries.  Senator Cavanagh  says that that is rubbish. It is irrefutable. I will go on to state what Comrade Mundey had to say. 
I do not challenge that statement. 
I come now to what is perhaps my final quotation about the industrial activities of people who do not have the welfare of the workers at heart, as so many honest trade union secretaries do. I do not want any misunderstanding on this point,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I have as much admiration and respect for the genuine trade union leader as has any honourable senator opposite. I distinguish between a genuine trade union leader and a communist dictator. Let us hear what comrade Mundey had to say. 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Brown)  Order!  Senator Hannan,  I am finding it a little difficult to relate the biographies of the several trade union leaders to whom you have been referring to the subject matter before the Senate which is the second reading on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. I ask you to direct your remarks to the subject. 
In deference to you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  as I have many other matters to raise which may be even more worrying to honourable senators opposite I will move on to them because my time is limited. I know that honourable senators opposite so far have not yet referred to any clauses in the BilL 
I wonder whether they know that clause  19  will insert a new section 45 in the Act to deal with secret ballots. This will propide a real opportunity to find out the wishes of the rank and file. Proposed new section 45a contains stringent conditions for the conduct of a ballot. I want to have a word or two to say about this matter. If there are provisions in this Bill which should commend themselves to honest, down to earth, rank and file members of unions and honourable senators opposite - the 7 of them with tickets - they are, firstly, superseding regulation 141, the provision that will enable financial assistance to be given to a trade unionist who believes that his executive has not carried out the real wishes of his union and who demands a secret ballot, and secondly, the very extensive provisions in the Bill governing the type of ballot to be held before an amalgamation.I want to say a little about the phoney ballot which took place before the recent metal trades amalgamation. The ballot was conducted by the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society of Australia. I have here a photostat copy of the returning officer's report of that ballot. This is the point I want to make: Of the 35,200 members of the organisation - according to Australian Council of Trade Unions return there were 32,063; so we will accept the lower figure for the moment  -  of 32,063 members of the union only 21,783 received ballot papers. What happened to the other 11,000 members? Why did they not receive ballot papers? Is it suggested that they are all members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  or  the Liberal Party? Surely one could not hang a dog on the result of a ballot conducted in these circumstances. 
I will have something to say about what the court said in a minute, and the honourable senator may be a little surprised.I have looked at what the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society of Australia proposed. Of the total number of people who received ballot papers, 13,000 ballot papers were returned from a membership of 32,063 and 9,681 voted for the proposal and 3,373 voted against it, giving a small majority of some 6,000 out of a membership of 32,063. What sort of howls and screams would we hear from honourable senators opposite if they found that elections could be won on a ballot of that nature? 
-I will lake up the honourable senator on that point. I am only a simple surburban lawyer but I point out to the honourable senator- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! There will be some semblance of order in the chamber. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President,  for your protection and your impartiality. 1 draw the attention of my friend  Senator Georges  who, no doubt is a company lawyer of some experience and erudition, to the fact that in the case of company takeovers a ballot of 90 per cent is required before the uniform companies legislation permits such a takeover. Do not let us have a lot of nonsense. One of the more amazing aspects of the matters relating to this extraordinary ballot - I shall remind honourable senators opposite of this in days and nights that are to come; they will never forget it - is that they have approved a ballot with a small majority of some 6,000 in which 331/3 per cent of the members entitled to vote did not receive a ballot paper. 1 will tell my honourable friends opposite how the ballot was conducted. They would not know that because they do not know much about trade unions. This is what happened in the case of the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society of Australia: Let us assume that there is a building job in a part of the city and 100 boilermakers are employed on it. The executive sends to the shop steward on the job 100 ballot papers. This distinguished officer, if he is honest, distributes them to the 100 boilermakers on the job. If he is not honest, one does not have to be Mandrake to guess what happens to the ballot papers. 
Is it even conceivable that honourable senators opposite would approve that method of voting for any office? But in a matter which involves millions of dollars, the industrial safety of the Commonwealth and the efficiency of our national industry they are prepared to accept this phoney subterfuge as a legitimate ballot in a union amalgamation. Another thing that amazes me is the extraordinary attitude of some sections of the mass media. I suppose that the 'Sydney Morning Herald' must have almost as good an access to these facts as I have. But what did that nespaper have to say about this? It said: 
The plain fact is that the 3 unions which have already merged themselves into an organisation tentatively called the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union have complied with the law in every respect. 
I say to honourable senators opposite who are interjecting: 'Come on in, spinners'. Now we come to a further aspect of the same leader of 25th February 1972: 
Yet various alarmed Government supporters, goaded by the DLP - 
That is really something.  with its own selfish sectional barrow to push, are now proposing what amounts to retrospective legislation to quash a perfectly proper act. 
I have never thought that leader writers were infallible, but this one must be out of his tiny mind. Later in the same leader it is stated: 
The unions concerned have met, and are meeting, all legal requirements, and it would be intolerable if they were to he frustrated at this stage to serve a belatedly discovered political advantage. 
No mention is made of the 331/3 per cent of the members of the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society of Australia who did not. even receive a ballot paper. I conclude my reference to this extraordinary document: 
But to frustrate it in this way and at this stage would arouse justifiable anger and lead to progressive opting out of the arbitration system. 
If that is a proper ballot, words have lost their meaning and we might just as well conduct all our discussions in this place in pure gibberish. I have deliberately avoided much reference to the real knaves and the real villains in our industrial society - the Communist Party of Australia, whether it be the Moscow orientated crowd of Aarons, Ted Hills Mao-ist line group or the third force de frappe, I suppose it can be called, of Comrade Clancy. One reason why these amalgamations are being sought by left wing unions is, of course, that it is an essential part of the policy of the Communist Party of Australia to destroy craft trade unionism. What that Party wants is great massive industrial complexes which can hold the entire nation to ransom and which can dictate to governments. What it wants is monopolisation of control. I will deal with Comrade Sharkey and bring honourable senators opposite right up to date. Comrade Sharkey said that trade unionism in Australia has to be conducted entirely on shop lines, and that the Communist Party regards these craft divisions as a source of weakness and disunity, hindering the growth of revolutionary strength. Honourable senators opposite go along with that point of view. Sharkey claims that the best method by which to achieve this is by means of amalgamation of existing craft unions. Do honourable senators opposite support that? Finally, because my time is about to expire, I feel that I should make a passing reference- (Opposition senators interjecting) - 
Do I get time off for the noise? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. Before I call  Senator James  McClelland I inform honourable senators that I will not tolerate this completely unseemly behaviour. I intend to name honourable senators who offend persistently by disregarding the Chair. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to encouraging reports of a successful counter-attack by South Vietnamese marines in Quang Tri province? Does this indicate that Vietnamisation, with American air support, may not be nearly so brittle as many commentators, cartoonists and correspondents have suggested? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service whether the  Mr Morgan,  the  president  of the metal trades employers' organisation, referred to in  Senator McManus'  question, is the same  Mr Morgan  who stated that the pending amalgamation of the metal trades unions would have the great advantage of eliminating demarcation disputes. Is it not a fact that the formal agreement between the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society and the Sheet Metal Workers Union expressly provided for procedure in the case of demarcation disputes? 
Is the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health aware that the Victorian Nursing Council has announced a new curriculum, accepted by the Victorian Government, involving the increase of classroom hours from 400 to 1,600, an increase of 300 per cent7 Is the Minister aware that the private hospital schools of nursing in Victoria are at the Mercy Hospital, Bethesda, the Sacred Heart and Epworth Hospitals of Melbourne and St John of God Hospital, Ballarat? Is the Minister aware that these hospitals are all church run, non-profit making surgical hospitals? Is the Minister aware that the tremendous increase in the costs brought about by the increased classroom hours has compelled the hospitals concerned to consider closing their nursing schools to avoid ruining the hospitals financially? Will the Minister confer with his State counterpart on the matter and consider whether special financial assistance should be made to meet this emergency? 
This Bill defines 'The Little Red Schoolbook' and provides a substantial financial penalty- 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories whether his attention has been drawn to recent Press reports that the United Nations Trusteeship Council mission to Papua New Guinea has reported that elections in the Trust Territory in February were comprehensive, thorough and fair and has complimented the Australian authorities on the pain they took to ensure that everyone was given an opportunity to vote. As both Russia, a traditional, if ill-informed, critic, and China were members of the 6-man committee, is this report a remarkable commendation of the Federal Government's handling of its Trust responsibilities? 
[ move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill defines the 'Little Red Schoolbook' and provides a substantial financial penalty or imprisonment or both for its sale, loan or distribution in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. There may be some constitutional question in relation to the Northern Territory but none so far as the Australian Capital Territory is concerned. I thank the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  for his courtesy in making the time available to introduce this Bill which I regard as being of some significance. 
And I thank the Opposition too. I do not discriminate in this matter. This matter is a matter of some significance. 
No not at all. A simple reading of the 'Little Red Schoolbook' will explain the motivation for this Bill. I do not intend to provide any titillation for the chamber by reading substantial extracts from it. I am satisfied, from my perusal, that the book is obscene having regard to the people or the readership for whom it is intended. I also regard it as subversive of all constituted authority - the authority of parents, the home and the school. 
I realise that my action will be stigmatised as Torquemada of old burning the books. I know that the infallible leader writers are bound to take affront. Leader writers are a special race of men. They are all wise, they are infallible, they are incredibly upright and just, they are far-seeing beyond the normal human being and they pontificate in a manner which makes us glad that we do not have to move in the stratosphere alongside them. Despite all this I believe that this Bill is in the best interest of our community. I want to make it abundantly clear at this stage that this Bill is not intended as an attack on the integrity of the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp.  I understand his point of view. I disagree with it. He said that the book is rubbish, that his legal powers to ban it are inadequate and that the less publicity it receives the better. I simply state that as a Liberal parliamentarian I am disagreeing with his judgment. I am disagreeing with his decision. In fact, I am simply exercising the freedom which is given to Liberal Party members of Parliament - a freedom which was so favourably commented upon by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  last Monday at the meeting of the Federal Libera) Party Council. 
I can recall a most distinguished Australian Prime Minister - perhaps the most distinguished Australian Prime Minister of all time - beginning many of his speeches with the words 'I am a simple Presbyterian'. I am not a Presbyterian, simple or otherwise, but I quote with wholehearted approval the editorial of 'Australian Presbyterian Life' of 6th May last. It says in part: 
This has gone too Far 
Surely the time has come for the Christian Church to stand up and say it has had enough. There have been many things in our society over the past few years which have breached not only Christian standards of conduct but ordinary canons of decency. But the appearence of 'The Link Red Schoolbook', with the implication that it is to be read by school children, should be an occasion when the Church says that things have gone too far and it calls on all its members to insist, through the ways open to them as citizens, that this sort of thing has got to stop. 
It should be said at the start that 'The Little Red Schoolbook' is not really phornographic in the sense that it treates obscenity in a manner calculated to deprave - certainly not adults. 
I emphasise that point because this book is aimed at children. The quotation continues: 
But in the section to which principal objection will be taken, it deals with sex in terms and from a standpoint which is crude, objectionable and frankly disgusting. It is practically impossible to give those who will not read the book a fair indication of its contents without being offensive. An indication of the writers' attitude can be gained from an early sentence on one page which discusses the reasons why people indulge in sexual intercourse. One reason, 'The Little Red Schoolbook' says, is 'They do it because people need sexual satisfaction and masturbation is no longer considered to be enough'. 
The whole of this section is written in terms which are down at the level of the gutter. The sexual organs are described in what are known as the 4-letter words. Sexual intercourse itself is given a name with which every reader of the writing on lavatory walls is familiar. These words are then put together in the crudest way to describe (for school children) what happens in intercourse. A succeeding paragraph goes on to tell how 'a boy and a girl can give one another more pleasure', and adds. 'They should talk about it and tell each other what they really enjoy*. 
On 15th May last the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  expressed his view on 'The Little Red Schoolbook'. He said: 1 cannot give it one vestige of support. Its sub versive nature makes it dangerous to our society. Publications of this type should not appear to be condoned by governments in Australia and I am pleased to see a number of State governments have taken action against it. The book basically aims at undermining authority at all levels. It does this under the guise of an enlightened liberalism that defends free and creative thought and individual development. In reality it denigrates the family unit, the church, our moral codes, our schooling system, law and order and government It belittles what is necessary for an orderly society and what is good and wholesome in it. I consider it a handbook for juvenile revolution and anarchy. 
That statement appeared in the Melbourne Sun' of 15th May last. On 27th May the Deputy Prime Minister returned to the attack, as reported in the Melbourne 'Sun' of that date, and I quote in part: 
The Country Party Leader said he had been surprised by the volume of letters he had received since his recent comments criticising 'The Little Red Schoolbook'. The letters had expressed real fears about trends in Australian society, not just on this book but on what people see as a sustained attack on the foundations of our society, its standards and its laws. This is not a phoney issue manufactured by the Government as some would suggest, but something about which many people are deeply concerned. 
As honourable senators are well aware, conscience votes are recorded by members of some political parties on certain matters which are regarded as issues of conscience - for example, hanging, divorce, marriage - and rightly so. We go to great pains, and again rightly so, to provide conscience escape clauses for genuine conscientious objectors under the National Service Act. There seems much selective indignation among some people. There are some who become apoplectic with moral indignation over the National Service Act, an Act designed to preserve the defence and security of the nation, but they happily ignore - they even praise and support - glitter type literature designed to corrupt school children. As both Socrates, who was no right wing reactionary, as honourable senators would well know, and  Sir Henry  Bolte have pointed out, pollution of the mind is more serious than pollution of the body. 
In my view there can be no argument but that this book is an incitement or encouragement to school children to hold all authority in contempt, and to indulge in sexual intercourse and unrestricted promiscuity. This is beyond challenge and how any religious leader could actually praise this type of garbage completely escapes me. If this book succeeds in its purpose it must have a number of evil material results, apart from the moral results. It will increase the incidence of early unwanted pregnancies and their possible abortions. Last week the Melbourne Herald' drew attention to the fact that many school children were having babies and that many of the mothers were as young as 13 years old. 
Do not misunderstand me. I am not saying that the book is the root of all evil. 1 am saying that it is an evil that ought to be suppressed. If the book's philosophy is followed, it must result in an increase in venereal disease among the very young. Venereal disease is making an alarming comeback as a major health hazard in our community, lt is doing this all over the Western world. As Clifford Roberts pointed out, during World War I, 100,000 units of penicillin were sufficient to deal with or to cure the average dose of gonorrhoea, but now it takes between  2i  and 3 million units. A new strain of venereal disease is developing. It has shown increased resistance to penicillin, lt has been found necessary nowadays whenever penicillin is given to combine it with another drug probenecid, which slows down the rate of penicillin excretion from the body, maintaining a curative action at higher levels and for far longer periods. Is this the type of disease with which we should encourage our children to experiment? In addition there is also the crime of carnal knowledge where a male person, boy or adult, has sexual intercourse with a female below the age of consent. In most States the age of consent is 16 years. There is no doubt in my mind that this book is an incitement to committing the crime of carnal knowledge. 1 find it incomprehensible that a book bounty should be paid on 'The Little Red Schoolbook', but one has in fact been paid. Bounty is normally the equivalent of 25 per cent of the cost of production. In a lengthy answer to a question by  Senator Little,  the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  said inter alia: 
Payment of bounty is in no way related to the merit of the book. Bounty has been paid on the production of every type of book, including cheap, badly written detective stories and trashy romances; merit, literary or otherwise, is simply not relevant. 
However, the definition of 'Book' in section 3 of the Book Bounty Act 1970 provides that book means a publication of a literary or educational character that is in book form. It would seem, therefore, as no-one could claim that 'The Little Red Schoolbook' is of a literary or educational  character; that bounty has been improperly paid upon it. I shall conclude by quoting an extract from the 'Advocate' of 18th May. T must ask honourable senators to bear with me as I read it since 1 want to give the precise terms. It reads: 
The anti-censorship drive has produced great changes in community standards in the past decade, as may be seen from the type of literature for sale in our bookshops, and the plays and films advertised. Is it possible to believe that this change is unconnected with the alarming rise in crimes of sex and violence among the young, and the increased prevalence of venereal disease? 
The anti-censors are fond of saying that books and plays do not really corrupt, and that to interfere with private choice in their regard is a gross infringement of citizen freedom. 
But, as Milton said long ago, books arc not dead things, but can sprout like the dragons' teeth in the Greek fable. If good books can influence human beings in favour of good living and high causes - like the liberation of the oppressed or inter-racial justice- the converse logically applies, that bad books can stimulate the mind and imagination in ways that are socially baleful. 
The effect of these on individuals varies with age, character and circumstances, but there is impressive evidence that scenes of sadism, lurid sex and crime in books and plays contribute to delinquent behaviour as well as unhealthy personal attitudes. 
Gallup Polls have shown that the community wants its standards upheld against the advocates of porn and moral subversion, whose propaganda undermines the roots of ordered freedom by the pollution of the people, and those in power would do well to give more heed to real public opinion than to mass media writers who do not reflect it.  1 hope that the proscription of this piece of gutter literature in the Australian Capital Territory will encourage the relevant State authorities to take similar action. As I said earlier, this Bill is no attack on the integrity of the Minister for Customs and Excise; it is simply an exercise in that democratic freedom which Liberal parliamentarians enjoy. There is a substantial body of Liberal opinion strongly opposed to the entry of the type of rubbish into our school rooms. I conclude by expressing my thanks to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate and the Leader of the Opposition for their courtesy in granting me leave to bring this matter forward without having to go through the usual delays. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator DrakeBrockman)  adjourned. 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to yesterday's Press statement by  Mr George  Crawford,  Chairman  of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party, that he would personally be conducting the electoral campaign of the Labor candidate for Hotham, one Barry Johnston . . . 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service been drawn to this morning's Press statement from Lieutenant-General  Sir Thomas  Daly, former Chief of the Australian General Staff, on the abolition of national service? If so, does the Minister concur with  Sir Thomas'  statement that such abolition would cause the disbandment of five of our 9 battalions, involving 4,000 officers and non-commissioned officers, and reduce the strength of the Citizen Military Forces by 10,000 men? Is the Minister aware that  Sir Thomas  also said that without national service the kind of Army Australia needs is not a possibility? As the Australian Labor Party is pledged to abolish national service, is this policy tantamount to destroying the Australian Army? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on 1 1th May, without notice: 
Is it not a fact that the Secretary-General of the United Nations,  Dr Kurt  Waldheim, attempted to call an emergence/ meeting of the Security Council yesterday on the Vietnam situation? Is it not a fact that the Soviet Ambassador to the United Nations declined to attend such a meeting on the ground that such, a meeting was unnecessary. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Foreign Affairs has supplied, the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Following  President  Nixon's statement on 8th May 1972, the United Nations Secretary-General,  Dr Kurt  Waldheim, consulted privately wilh the members of the Security Council to ascertain the extent to which use might be made of the United Nations, including the Security Council, and his own good offices, to help stop the . fighting and achieve a lasting peace in Vietnam. The SecretaryGeneral is empowered under the United Nations Charter to bring to the attention of the Security Council any matter which in his opinion may threaten international peace and security. Following his consultations with the members of the Security Council, he chose not to refer the situation in Vietnam to the Council. In public statements the Soviet Union has made no specific reference to the role of the Security Council in this question. It was, however, reported in the Press that the Soviet Union did not favour the holding of a meeting of the Security Council to consider the situation in Vietnam. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration: Is it a fact that 5 Australian citizens, McLeod, Van Moorst, Lehane and 2 others recently visited Hanoi? Is it a fact that these 5 people carried Australian passports marked 'Not valid for North Vietnam'? Does the Minister know that on his return McLeod appeared on a television programme, which I saw, to say that the purpose of their visit was to boost the morale and assist the North Vietnamese in their struggle? In view of the fact that we still have 150 Australian soldiers advising and - not to put too fine a point on it - fighting in South Vietnam, will the Minister investigate the circumstances of this visit to ascertain whether this giving of aid to a country with which our troops are in fact in conflict is in breach of the provisions of the Crimes Act relating to treachery? 1 am not a member of the Rhodesian lobby and I ask the Minister to explain why it is in order to allow this. If he will not analyse that position, can. the Minister explain why it is in order to allow assistance to North Vietnam with which we are virtually at war and not to Rhodesia with which we are not at war? Can the Minister say whether the proposed visit to Hanoi of the  Chairman  of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party,.  Mr George  Crawford, is for the same purpose as that of McLeod and his friends? Can the Minister explain why Hanoi's friends are allowed to keep Australian passports but Rhodesia's are not? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General as the Minister in charge of security. Is it a fact that the Yugoslav communist Embassy recently provided the Government with a list of names of Croatians who were alleged to have trained in terrorism in Australia and to have been killed in a raid in Yugoslavia? Was this information contained in a Yugoslav newspaper published in Sydney under the name of 'Nova Boda', which I understand means good news. Is it a fact that one of these names was that of  Mr Andrija  Lemic? Is it a fact that  Mr Lemic  is alive and well and living at Mount Gambier and that he dismisses the Embassy allegations as communist propaganda? Is this a fair sample of the credibility of reports emanating from the Yugoslav Embassy in Australia? I ask the Minister with reference to the ridiculous literature raids carried out by Commonwealth Police yesterday on Croatian homes, including a Catholic Presbytery, whether he will give- (Opposition senators interjecting.) 
 I hear an honourable senator say that they probably went to confess. I do not see anything humorous in that. 
The ACTING PRESIDENT- Order! I have asked for silence during the asking of questions. 
 Mr Acting President,  if I may resume my question: I ask the Minister whether in respect of these raids he will give an assurance that any necessary interpretation of documents seized will not be carried out by interpreters suggested by the Yugoslav Embassy or by one Jurgan Jurjevic or any communist agent. Is it not a fact that the bulk of the literature seized is freely available on book stalls in Melbourne and other capital cities? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is it not a fact that the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party last year at Townsville resolved that in the unlikely event of a Labor government, any trade union official using violence to damage property during or in furtherance of a strike should be immune from any action for damages? In view of the statement on a related matter - not an identical matter - this morning by  Mr Hawke,  I ask the Minister, from his knowledge of the ALP constitution- 
I did not refer to a newspaper cutting. 
The ' honourable senator mentioned newspapers in his reference to the Acting  President.   This matter was referred to in the Hansard reports of the recent debate in this chamber on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill: : 
The ACTING PRESIDENT- Hansard reports?  . , 
Yes. " 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT-  I do not think the point of order, is sustained. If  Senator Hannan  is speaking of a Hansard report he is entitled to do that. ' 
The ACTING PRESIDENT- I think it is recognised that it is not 'always possible for people who make statements to produce the minutes of meetings and so on to substantiate those statements.1 In this society in which we live we 'find out in various ways certain things which are going on. I think it is reasonable to accept that, this matter having been brought into the chamber, debated in the chamber and published in Hansard, it is possible to speak to that matter again because' apparently no objection was taken at the time it was mentioned originally and recorded in Hansard. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting President.  The Leader of the Opposition actually moved along those lines, recommending that we adopt the law as it stands in England. 
I do not know why the honourable senator is so sensitive about the matter. I now proceed with my question. Is it not a fact that last year at Townsville the Australian Labor Party resolved that in the unlikely event of a Labor government being in office any trade union official using violence to damage property during or in furtherance of a strike or industrial dispute should be immune from any action for damages? I ask the Minister whether, in view of the statement in this morning's Press by  Mr Hawke  on a related matter, from his knowledge of the Australian Labor Party constitution  Mr Hawke  has the authority to cancel that plank of Labor's platform. 
I claim that I have been misrepresented by  Senator Mulvihill  in his question. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT  - Order! The honourable senator claims to have been misrepresented and I think that- 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT-  J think that the honourable senator who claims to be misrepresented is entitled to be heard. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT-  Order! A point of order has been raised and I am replying to it. 1 think that in view of the fact that the honourable senator has asked me something in relation to  Senator Hannan's  question, in fairness, if  Senator Hannan  has something to say in that regard, I should hear it to enable me to make a fair assessment. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting President.  Under the Standing Orders, I have- 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Georges  has a further point of order. 

 Senator Hannan is claiming misrepresentation. I think that he ought to do that when question time is completed, not during question time. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT-  All right;  Senator Hannan  can leave his explanation until after question time. 
Very well. I am sorry that honourable senators opposite are so sensitive about it. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT  - Order! The point of order is upheld and  Senator Hannan  can make his presentation after question time. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT-  Order! I think that there is a fair representation contained in the point of order which the honourable senator has taken. But at the same time I think that we should have  Senator Hannan's  reply later if he wants to make it to enable me to make an assessment pertaining to the honourable senator. I call on  Senator Georges  to ask his question. 
Under standing order 410 I want to correct a misrepresentation which  Senator Mulvihill  made in respect of a question which 1 asked earlier this afternoon.  Senator Mulvihill  said that I had described  Mr Jurjevic  in my question. That is simply untrue. I referred to him by name without any description whatsoever, although at this stage I inform  Senator Mulvihill  that in the near future I may be compelled to describe the person with accuracy and at length. 
. &lt;ind no debatable matter shall be brought forward or debate arise upon such explanation.  1 suggest to you,  Mr Acting President,  that the honourable senator has made his explanation. He has pointed out that he gave no description of the gentleman named. That, 
I  suggest, is the personal explanation. The honourable senator has made it clear to the Senate how he feels he has been misrepresented. If he continues he is clearly in defiance of standing order 410, and  I  suggest,  Mr Acting President,  that you should rule accordingly. 
I  am happy to withdraw the last sentence. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Postmaster General. It refers to recent public announcements by  Sir Robert  Madgwick,  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, relative to bias in Australian current affairs programmes. Is it a fact that when giving sworn evidence on 6th June 1971 before the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, as recorded at page 224 of the transcript,  Sir Robert  said, inter alia: 
I have never said that the ABC programmes have always in my opinion been impartial. 
When speaking to the ABC Staff Association on 5th June 1971, as reported in the Canberra Times', did  Mr Whitlam  strongly dispute the requirement put on the ABC to provide balance in its programmes? In the same speech was  Mr Whitlam  reported as saying: 
I confess there is an authoritarian streak in my Party as strong as exists among my opponents. 
I know because all my battles within the Party have been directed against authoritarianism and intolerance. 
Does this mean that an ALP Government would simply set the ABC current affairs programmes up as a pure organ of propaganda? 
Has the attention  of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to reports at the weekend that 18 Soviet Russian merchant seamen had just defected in Greece and sought political asylum? Is it not a fact that the Greek Government is a military dictatorship which has been under constant attack by honourable senators opposite and by the Australian Labor Party generally? Does this defection seem to indicate that bad and all as the Greek colonels may be, these seamen regard that regime as being less oppressive than that of Soviet Russia? 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  -  Senator Hannan,  I ask you to keep in mind the general principles of the point made by  Senator Willesee. 
If the honourable senator would direct my attention to which of the 2 governments was being insulted I might be able to adjust my question accordingly. 
 I will rephrase part of my question in order to conform. Is it not a fact that the Greek Government is under the control of a military adm ins t ration? Is it not a fact that that administration has been under constant attack by honourable senators opposite and the Australian Labor Party generally? Would this defection seem to indicate that the Soviet seamen prefer to live in Greece rather than in Russia? 
Pressure from either side? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service able to give me any further information about the Australian Labor Party's claim for special privilege of union officers during industrial disputes, to which I referred in a question recently? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy. I preface it by referring to the recent statement by the Minister for the Navy about new DDL destroyers and also to a Press release about prolonging the life of the aircraft carrier HMAS 'Melbourne' longer than had been anticipated. Is it a fact that last week, or perhaps the week before, Britain announced that it had decided, to. scrap a front line carrier - I think it is the 'Eagle' - which is considerably more modern than HMAS 'Melbourne' and whether in fact this front line carrier has been sent to the ship breakers? In the event of Australia needing an additional or a replacement carrier for HMAS 'Melbourne', will the Minister investigate the availability and suitability of this British front line carrier for our purposes? If this carrier should prove unsuitable for our purposes, will the Minister inquire about the availability and the suitability for our purposes of either the USS 'Bennington' or the USS Kearsarge', both of which I understand may conceivably be available for acquisition? 
It is gratifying indeed to note Senate Gairs substantial approval of the Budget. I share his disappointment that his larynx may have affected his eloquence. I wish him a speedy recovery from his indisposition and assure him that despite his ailment he has put a very sound view to the Senate tonight. 
I am often accused of it - without truth, of course. Like the whole population of Australia, I support this Budget.  Lt  is a Budget which has made major advances in social services, major reductions in taxation and it has entered into many fields of Australian life wherein governments have in the past rarely moved. It is not my intention to traverse in detail all the benefits which the Budget confers. But I shall make reference to a few of the matters. I think that the substantial increase in old age pensions of $1.75 coupled with the promise to abolish the means test within 3 years is a real breakthrough. How serious is this breakthrough is shown by the fact that  Mr Whitlam,  probably without the authority of his Federal Executive, has felt compelled to slash 3 years off the 6 years in which he had promised to abolish the means test. 
One very important aspect of this matter is the fact that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has said that it will be abolished within 3 years. Of course, that does not mean that it will take 3 years to do it. If, as I would assume, we are successful at the forthcoming election I would not be at all surprised to see the means test go by the board very smartly. I approve of the increase in home savings grants, the new home nursing care scheme, the child care scheme, repatriation and general taxation remissions. Defence and immigration are to be maintained at their present high level. The immigration decision is particularly significant as being diametrically opposed to the ALP policy on population. The Government realises that to have a secure nation we need more people. This country of 13 million people has been estimated by various authorities to be capable of carrying between 50 million and 1 00 million people. 
I will deal with the honourable senator in a minute. I just want to explain this point. We are to assist to increase our population by a sane, intelligent immigration policy which will maintain in essence the homogeneity of our population. At the discredited ALP Federal Conference at Launceston last year the Labor Premier of South Australia,  Mr Mr Dunstan,  recommended an Asian intake of approximately 27,000 a year. I do not know what some of the trade unions think of this figure or, for that matter, what the Australian electorate thinks. At the same time, the ALP Federal Conference resolved that it should persuade Australian women not to have more than 2 children - that it was selfish to do so. What arrant nonsense. The members of the ALP want to open the floodgates to foreign immigration and at the same time restrict our natural increase in population. They are talking drivelling nonsense about zero population growth, abortion on demand and so forth. I say that Labor's philosophy is the philosophy of a decadent and moribund political party, the policy which destroyed ancient Rome and if adopted would destroy modern Australia. 
Of course, this leads quite naturally to the Labor Party's current preoccupation, that is, tinkering with the currency or revaluation.  Mr Whitlam  has announced that a Labor government would appreciate the dollar and at the same time implement reductions in tariffs. This is simply a formula for reducing the income of the man on the land, for reducing our receipts from exports from mining companies and - what is not generally appreciated by honourable senators opposite - for increasing unemployment in the factories in our cities. I note that  Mr Wiltshire, President  of the Australian Industries Development Association, said last week: 
An upward revaluation of the dollar would largely negate the economic stimulation which the Budget is designed to provide . . . 

 Mr Wiltshire went on to say: 
The proponents for revaluation appear to overlook that the present level of unemployment is largely due to falling employment in manufacturing industry and a complementary falling off in employment growth in industries servicing manufacturing industry. The main purpose of the Budget is to step up demand, increasing the market for Australian production, and thus take up idle capacity and increase employment. This is the only way in which the present level of unemployment can be substantially reduced. 
It is of very great significance and most important that we make known that the effect of revaluation will be felt not only in the primary industry sector of our economy.  Mr Wiltshire  continued: 
Any Australian Government which in the present circumstances is misguided enough to revalue the Australian dollar and/or arbitrarily apply substantial tariff cuts will not see the steady reduction in unemployment that the Budget aims for . . . 
I turn now to a matter of great significance in relation to the taxpayers' television service, namely, the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The ABC, more than the commercial channels, puts out wide ranging public affairs programmes. They are made possible by generous funds from the Australian taxpayers' pockets. It would be a most serious fault in this service if the programmes were unfair, biased or unbalanced. There is no doubt in my mind that ABC public and current affairs programmes are biased and unfair. I. hope to explain that statement to the Senate before I finish. I quote from portion of the Sydney Morning Herald' of 26th August. Even my friend,  Senator Mulvihill,  will concede that the 'Sydney Morning Herald' is not exactly in the pocket of the Government. Under the heading 'Not a Sacred Cow' the editorial states: 
Once again, the Australian Broadcasting Commission is under fire, from political quarters, for its treatment of current affairs, particularly on television . . . The latest hue and cry has been raised by  Sir Alan  Hulme.  His  suggestion that members of the Commission should preview programme material is hardly practical. That is the function of management. 
I interpolate here to say that the management of the ABC is merely the executive to carry out the will of the Commissioners and I want to make it abundantly clear that my complaint is not directed at the top management of the ABC. The newspaper editorial continues: 
He is, however, perfectly justified in complaining of bias, political and otherwise, on programmes such as 'This Day Tonight'. Here he has been joined by  Mr McMahon  . . . 
The ACTING PRESIDENT- Order! 
-I do not know why this should disturb the honourable senator so much. I continue:   . . and, more tentatively, by  Mr Anthony. Sir Charles  Moses, who as a former ABC general manager can speak with authority, freely concedes the danger of'young people with missionary zeal finding it difficult to resist pushing their particular barrow*. It is more than a danger; it has happened repeatedly over a long period. Not for nothing, and not altogether unfairly, has 'This Day Tonight' been rechristened 'Hawke's Half Hour' or Today's Distortion Tonight'. 
Too often, with the use of bullying tactics in interviews, it has been grossly partisan and biased. It should be made plain to these 'young people' that they are paid out of taxpayers' pockets and that (hey are not being paid to air their own callow prejudices. 
The paper continues - 
One commissioner feels that the constant criticism is having a'pretty devastating effect on the morale of oar people'. For this they deserve no sympathy at all. Some of them should stop behaving like hysterical ninnies and treating all criticism as self evident heresy. If they are such sensitive plants that they cannot take criticism as well as handit out they should get out of the current affairs' field. The ABC is not a sacred cow and should never be treated as one'. 
I thinkit is important in this context to point out some answers given by  Sir Robert  Madgwick, the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, during a hearing of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts on 6th June 1972. The evidence taken is contained in the Hansard report. I would like to read to the Senate from the Hansard report some of the questions I asked  Sir Robert  and the answers that he gave. They are as follows: 
Did I understand you to say,  Sir Robert,  that there was no parliamentary control of programme content? 

 Sir Robert Madgwick ; This is right. 
So you have an entirely free band in all public affairs matters which you transmit? 

 Sir Robert Madgwick ; That is right , yes. 
You are under no direction from the Government or the Opposition? 
I take it from your introductory statement that you are a strong protaganist of the independence of the ABC? 

 Sir Robert Madgwick; That is right. 
You would agree perhaps with  Sir James  Darling who was a distinguished predecessor of yours when he said that the ABC has only the right to independence if it is impartial? 

 Sir Robert Madgwick; I think so , yes. But I would go further than that. 
Later on the same occasion  Sir Robert  - and I want honourable senators opposite to take particular note of this - said: 
I have never said that the ABC programmes have always in my opinion been impartial. What 1 have said and what I believe to be true is that they never set out consciously not to be. When I say that I have never claimed that in my opinion they are always unbiased or impartial I do underline, if I may, the interpolation of the 3 words 'in my opinion' because these judgments are and must be subjective. 
We have here an admission on oath - I repeat on oath - from  Sir Robert  Madgwick that for whatever reason, he does not claim that his programmes are always impartial or free from bias. This is a claim which has been made even by my distinguished friend opposite,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who is one of my favourite television performers. 
Oh, yes you did senator. I can recall your discussion with the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  in another place. Whilst  Mr Jess  pointed out that there was distinct bias in the Yugoslav programme which has preceded his segment you yourself felt that the whole thing was free from bias and impartial. So here we have the situation. For some reason which completely escapes me, honourable senators opposite seem to object to the American fairness doctrine. 
I think that when it comes to broadcasting and television that I understand a little more than the honourable senator. 
It is no wonder that the PostmasterGeneral complained. He would have been lacking in his duty to the nation if he had not. On 4th June 1971 - over a year ago - that distinguished democrat,  Mr Whitlam,  spoke to the ABC Staff Association. As reported in the 'Canberra Times' of the following day  Mr Whitlam  said inter alia - and I will not quote the whole article because it was a long speech: 
I confess there is an authoritarian streak in my party as strong as exists among my opponents. I know better than anybody, because if you examine it, all my battles within the Party have been against authoritarianism and intolerance. 
Just to show how tolerant he was,  Mr Whitlam  is reported as follows: 
He strongly disputed the requirement put on the ABC that it should attempt to provide 'balance' in its programmes. 
In my view it is not surprising that  Mr Whitlam's  disciples in the ABC have taken their master at his word. Balance is obviously the last thing they worry about. 
One of the interesting aspects of discussions over the last fortnight has been the fact that whereas certain newspapers were making the claim that the ABC's public affairs programmes  were  as pure  as  the driven snow, they have now discovered that they contain not only a modicum of bias but substantial slant. They have now decided - that is, those organs to which I have referred - that it was inevitable, that the Government just had to be criticised. Whilst I object strongly to political censorship from either  side,  all that I argue for is a fair go. 
That may be contrary to the political philosophy of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Byrne)  - Order!  Senator Mulvihill,  kindly let  Senator Hannan  continue. 
This,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  is consonant with  Senator Mulvihill's  philosophy since obviously he does not believe in the freedom of speech. He does not believe that we should get  a  fair go on the ABC. He believes that the present slanted, biased and distorted programmes pedalling his wretched political philosophy should be continued. 
I want to return to the fact that even one of the ABC Commissioners - Commissioner Richardson - who rushed in to defend his brood had to concede: 
It does not surprise me that current affairs staff producing programmes 5 days a week under constant pressure are sometimes a little off balance. 
This must rank as the understatement of the century. This matter could well perhaps have failed to receive the examination which it has received if it had not been for the courage of one of the ABC Commissioners. I refer to a report of  Mr James  Tehan which appeared in the 'Sun' on 18th August 1972. In part the report stated: 
A Victorian member in the Australian Broadcasting Commission yesterday criticised a small minority of the ABC current affairs staff. 

 Mr James Tehan, 66, a commissioner since last year, said this minority pushed a consistent idealogical line on their programmes. 
In a statement  Mr Tehan,  a grazier near Mansfield, said it was with great reluctance that he entered the dispute. 
I do so because the  chairman  and one other member of the commission may by their published statements have created the impression that their views represent the majority opinion of the commission. 
So much so, that should I remain silent my own position could be seriously misrepresented.' (Quorum formed.)  1 return to my quotation from  Mr Tehan: 
Let me make this clear: No one has called into question the policy being implemented by the senior  management  of the ABC, in particular by the general manager. 
The issue, I fear, has been clouded. "The Minister has not criticised the general manager, rather has he criticised those employees who should be subject to the general manager but who have attempted to supersede his rights. 
Let me emphasise that the vast majority  of  our employees are perfectly loyal and understand both the rights and responsibilities which flow from the autonomy of the ABC 
A small minority in current affairs have by their actions caused great criticism of the commission and have been unfair to their own colleagues through their persistent ideological line. 
It is misleading for any member of the commission to create an impression that there is unanimous support for these people. 
All that the Government has ever asked for is a fair go, an application  of  what the Americans call, under the Federal Communications Commission, the implementation of the fairness doctrine. This simply means that where one side of a public controversy has been put the other side must also be put. This is not always  easy.  I concede that there are difficulties. It does not mean that the balance must be achieved on the same session, but it should be within  a  reasonable time. It certainly does not mean what one of the sillier columnists of the Melbourne 'Age', a certain Pinkney, put recently, that every controversial statement has immediately to be rebutted. 
In support of my proposition that the ABC is running a particular line in its current affairs programmes, I turn to an address given by  Mr Gerald  Stone, senior reporter of the ABC's programme 'This Day Tonight', when addressing a seminar of the Australian Association for Cultural Freedom on 27th May 1971. I do not propose to quote his remarks in toto because his address was longer than one of  Senator Mulvihill's  adjournment speeches. I propose to pick out sentences from his address. I am quite prepared to table the document, but because of its length I can refer only to particular paragraphs in the course of my remarks. He said: 
In that time, the programme has had a considerable Impact on Australian society. 
That is true. It has an excellent format and it is well produced. It is the bias to which 1 take exception. With the same modesty which characterises journalists everywhere  Mr Stone  went on to say while talking about the success of the programme:   we have working for us some of the most talented, intelligent journalists in any news organisation in the country. Not the so called pretty boys of previous years in broadcasting -  the  ones with the big, dramatic voices and the empty minds - but experienced professional  journalists 
A little later in his address, referring to  Mr Ormsby  Wilkins, a well known Melbourne commentator, he said: 

 Mr Ormsby Wilkins, for example, has said that our programme is cleverly produced to push a left-wing line . . . We are broadcasting over a publicly owned network- 
That is the burden of my song, that he has no right to editorialise -  in a highly sensitive area of communications. We have the potential to do a great deal of damage, as well as a great deal of good. People of a set political or moral persuasion have a right - and perhaps even a duty - to look at us closely to judge whether we are giving a fair portrayal of causes and events. 
That is just what I am asking the Senate to do tonight in respect of the programme This Day Tonight'.  Mr Stone  continued:   . . one of the main requirements of a TDT reporter is that he not only be competent at his on-camera work, but that he be able to contribute ideas and criticism. 
Translating this into action, it means that he must be able to think up some knocking ideas.  Mr Stone  continued: 
The standards we use for selecting our material are basically the same as in any editorial unit. Our judgments are made within the framework of 3 broad values: First, our concept of the mandate handed to us by the ABC management in setting up the programme; secondly, our concept of our audience, its tastes and range of interests; third, our concept of journalistic integrity - of the duty to report matters of public importance and urgency regardless of any apparent conflict with the other 2 factors 1 have just mentioned. 
In other words, Stone is going to tun and show exactly as he likes. Later in the same speech he said: 
A little while ago I assured you that This Day Tonight does not set out to propagandise for any political party or movement. I'm afraid I can't be as emphatic in talking about our approach to particular causes or issues. Anyone who has viewed our programme over the years will know that we have tended to emphasise certain stories: censorship, the treatment of Aborigines and attitudes towards colour, deficiencies of social welfare, dissent and the conflict between civil liberties and the needs of the state. 
I do not think it is necessary to pursue Stone's address very much further because what 1 have quoted is a complete admission that the programme editorialises. Towards the end of his speech he said: 
Trying to look as objectively as possible at myself and my colleagues, I would say that any individual bias we might have influencing our programme decisions shows itself in 3 basic assumptions. 
I ask the Senate to note these extraordinary assumptions, and why a Canadian should make them I do not know. He said: 
We, as Australians, are not as free as we should be. We are not as well off as we think we are. We are not as good to each other and to outsiders as we claim to be. 
This strikes me as being a pretty rotten philosophy on which to base a programme on current affairs. 
My time is running out, but I do want to make a passing reference to the work of  Mr George  Shipp, a lecturer in the School of Political Science at the University of New South Wales. The circumstances in which he prepared the article from which I propose to quote included the fact that he was the first  speaker  to comment on the address made by  Mr Gerald  Stone. I have not time to read the whole article which appeared in the May- June 1971 issue of Quadrant'. Shipp announced that he proposed scientifically to analyse a continuous series of segments of the TDT programme to ascertain whether there was any observable bias. He did not say whether there was any, but it was his purpose to find out whether there was any. Later in this chamber I hope to deal with Shipp's points in detail, but for the time being I propose to refer with precision and accuracy to the things that happened to Shipp once he announced that he intended to make this inquiry. Shipp said at page 33 of the issue of 'Quadrant' to which I have referred: 
The attempts to dissuade me from proceeding wilh the project made before I gave the talk on which this article is based are mild when compared to what followed. The attacks then made displayed a degree of fury, malice, unscrupulousness and disregard for the truth which allow only one interpretation: they were designed to intimidate me - 
What do honourable senators opposite say about that? He continued:  into abandoning the project, to destroy my reputation and fitness as an academic, to question my competence and personal integrity, and to prepare the way for attacking the findings of the research should they, as the attackers knew or feared, be harmful to their ideological and political interests.  An  incidental consequence (if not purpose) of the viciousness of the reaction was to dissuade those who may have been aware of the falseness of the charges from entering the controversy . . . 
This is the point that I want to make: Shipp is a scientific university investigator. He announced no bias. He did not know whether there was any bias in the programme, but when he set out to ascertain by scientific investigation whether there was any he received this stream of abuse and there was an attempt to prevent him from carrying out his investigation. Why would anyone want to try to stop Shipp from making that observation? I think the Postmaster-General's complaints were completely and thoroughly justified. J revert to my original remarks for a moment to say that I think this is a thoroughly good Budget. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Is the Territory of Pupua New Guinea, for the purposes of the Social Services Act. regarded as part of Australia. 
Is an Australian citizen, who is otherwise entitled to receive an Old Age Pension, debarred from doing so if he is working in the Territory at the time of reaching the statutory age, as provided for by the Act: if so, will the Minister take action to correct this anomaly. 
Is the position referredto in (2) affected by the legislation passed in the recent autumn sittings of this Parliament. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for Social Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senators question: 
The Social Services Act 1947-72 does not apply to external Territories of the Commonwealth. 
An age pension may be granted only to a person who, being qualified in other respects, is residing in Australia when he lodges his claim. 
Where a pensioner leaves Australia to reside in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea sections 49 and 78 of the Act authorise the portability of his pension. Section 83a  c  of the Act inserted by Social Services Act (No. 3) 1972 provides for portability of pensions payable in Papua and New Guinea on the same terms as those payable in Australia. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service been drawn to the increasing use of violence in both industrial and political disputes in Australia? I cite the cowardly attack on the  President  of the Australian Labor Party in New South Wales,  Mr John  Ducker; the recent hit and run murder by some person unknown driving in a Federated Ship Painters and Dockers Union of Australia car in Melbourne; the destruction of partly completed buildings by the Communist Mundey and his Australian Builders Labourers Federation in Sydney; and the placing of a bomb in the office of the Department of Labour and National Service in Perth. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT-  Order! The honourable senator will put his question. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT  - Order! The honourable senator was asking a question and relating it to certain incidents. I ask him to make the preface to the question as brief as possible and make the question compact. 
I was giving these examples to refresh the Minister's memory. 1 can understand why the Leader of the Opposition should be so sensitive about it. Can the Minister say whether this sinister trend is encouraged by the Federal Labor Party's decision at Townsville last year to place unionists above the law? 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that a gentleman named  Mr Barry  Johnston, Who is sought by the Commonwealth police, has been endorsed as the Australian Labor Party candidate for the seat of Hotham in Victoria? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral by saying that I accept the Government's assurance that it exerts no political pressure of any kind on the Australian Broadcasting Commission in relation to programming. However, I ask the Minister whether his attention has been drawn to the recent announcement by the ABC that its most popular children's programme 'Adventure Island' is to be scrapped forthwith. Does the Minister, as a parent of 2 young children, know that the programme eschews violence and tries to teach good citizenship and the best of human qualities without becoming precocious? Will the Minister confer with his colleague in another place to ascertain whether - and without exerting any political pressure - the commissioners of the ABC might review this decision, particularly as in the field of children's programmes Australian productions rank extremely high? 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware of the developing feelings of frustration and resentment in vast sections of the Croatian community at the unjust allegations being made against that community by representatives of the Yugoslav Embassy and other person:- of dubious antecedents who accuse them of terrorist activities in this country? Is there any truth in these allegations? If not, will the Attorney-General take appropriate steps to clear the good name and reputation of these people who have been subjected to such unfair allegations? 
I refer the AttorneyGeneral to recent well publicised complaints by the Yugoslav Ambassador to the Australian Government about certain damage to Embassy property. Whilst strongly condemning such damage irrespective of who caused it, I ask the Minister whether he can give the Senate any information about recent treatment of Australian citizens in Yugoslavia. 
Perhaps the most significant aspect to emerge from  Senator Willesee's  speech was that he virtually failed to refer to the motion moved by  Senator Murphy.  I will refer to two or three matters which  Senator Willesee  raised. He mentioned 2 different answers which he said came from 2 different Ministers. If we examine the 2 answers we find that there is nothing in either of them which is really mutually exclusive. As one might expect,  Senator Willesee  spoke with great subservience of the communist Government of Yugoslavia. Having adopted that method of speech, he then had the gall in addressing this chamber to quote with approval an attack by a socalled diplomat on the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  a Minister of the Australian Government. That attack was an outrageous political one made on this Government by a person who is supposed to observe the niceties of diplomatic propriety. I cannot understand how on the one hand an oblique reference to this Government pains  Senator Willesee  no end while, on the other hand, a gross transgression from the normal activities of polite diplomatic society, to put it very mildly, not only leaves the honourable senator unmoved but also seems to bring approval from him. 1 believe that the Attorney-General has completely discredited the allegations and smears which have come from the Opposition since  Senator Murphy  moved his motion. I make it clear that I have nothing but contempt and disgust for terrorists of the type who will throw bombs to maim and murder people. I do not care whether these people are from the right, the left or the centre. I go along with the AttorneyGeneral in believing that the crime of bomb throwing is so horrible that nothing but the death penalty would be an adequate punishment for an outrage of that type. With regard to this motion, I suppose that a cynic could dismiss the whole motion by saying: 'This is an election year. The Australian Labor Party is simply kicking around the good old Ustasha can'. Perhaps I should digress to say that the word Ustasha' simply means 'arise, throw off your chains'. That philosophy would be hostile to a socialist administration. Despite the political overtones, this matter has a serious context. I believe it is right and proper that the Senate should discuss it seriously. 
We must look at how Yugoslavia emerged. I think we find there the seeds of a great deal of the troubles of the Old World. For 1300 years, 1400 years or 1500 years, distinct nations have been emerging in the Balkans in the area which is now Yugoslavia. As  Senator McManus  pointed out, they have been merged against their will into an artificial federation called Yugoslavia, which attracts the loyalty of nobody. After the Roman Empire in the west was attacked so successfully by the Barbarians in 474, the people who lived in what is now Croatia had been looking towards the west as their source of culture, religion and way of life. When contact with Rome was cut off in the 6th century, these people began to evolve their own distinct culture. Today, their descendants are the people who live in the area known as Croatia. 
On the other hand, the people who lived to the east of Croatia in Serbia had their spiritual, social and cultural nexus with the Byzantine empire in the east. The people of Serbia looked also to the east for their religious persuasions. The result was that the Serbian people - a rugged people; people of determination as  Senator McManus  described them - grew up with a strong and devout attraction to the Greek Orthodox religion. The Croats took their inspiration from the west and were predominantly Roman Catholic although, as the result of later invasions by Mohammedans, there is a Moslem content in the country. [ feel that we must go back a long way in history to look at the barbarities and atrocities which have been committed by both sides throughout history. I recall reading of one Croatian peasant leader who displeased what I suppose we would call the king, although he was not titled king, of the adjoining Serbian country. This peasant led a revolt against the king. As a punishment, the peasant was stripped naked, placed on a red hot throne and a red hot crown was put on his head. That is the sort of punishment that was handed out by these rugged people in days gone by. I recall reading of a Serbian attack on a Croation village, the local priest of which was horse-shoed with nails. The priest was made to hobble around the market place, after which he was shot. I merely quote these ghastly examples as some indication of the type of feeling which, in the past, has existed between Croatia and Serbia. 
It is not my purpose to traverse the ground which has been traversed already by other speakers in regard to events following the signing of the Treaty of Versailles. I simply say that 6 provinces or, as we might almost call them, 6 countries were welded more or less against their will into the country of Yugoslavia. Additionally. 2 independent or quasi independent provinces were attached to this strange outfit. We have heard from  Senator McManus  of the ghastly events which led to the dissolution of the Croatian Peasant Party at the end of the 1920s and the start of the 1930s and ultimately the assassination of King Alexander in Marseilles by people believed to be Croatian agents. Then came the Second World War. At this time the Croatians were under the governmental domination of the Serbs, the monarchy being run there as a virtual dictatorship. Whilst Croatia provided most of the wealth of the kingdom, nearly all positions and quasi parliamentary authority resided in Serbia. 
On 8f.h April 1941 the barbarian Hitler invaded the Balkans. It is true that a man called Ante Pavelie became the leader of an organisation known as the Ustasha or, as it is sometimes called, the Ustashi. Noone would make any bones about the fact that this man was a dictator. He took over the control of Croatia. He had a vestige of independence. At least he had more independence than the country had when it was ruled by Serbia. It does not seem any more remarkable to me that a man like Pavelic should attempt to do a deal with Hitler than that  Mr Churchill  and  President  Roosevelt should sit down at a later date with Joseph Stalin, one of the most evil men ever - certainly the most evil since Cromwell. 
Does anyone seriously challenge that? 
I beg your pardon. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral seen Press reports that UDBA, the dreaded Yugoslav secret police, is operating in Australia? Is it a fact that UDBA is generally held responsible for the murder of several Croatian nationalists throughout the world? Has the Minister received any complaints from the Australian Labor Party in respect of the operation of these secret police or are that Party's complaints limited strictly to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation? Will the Minister give an assurance that any proven UDBA man will be deported from Australia? Will he also notify the Yugoslav Government that these types are unwelcome in this country and will not be admitted in the future? 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Can the Minister advise the Senate of the circumstances in which a diplomat accredited to Australia may be informed that he or she is persona non grata? Does the making of a political attack upon an Australia Federal Minister fall within this category? 
 I enter this melee briefly to refer to to one or two matters raised by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. Like very many other honourable senators, I am getting heartily sick and tired of the synthetic indignation poured across this chamber in respect of a charge which has been wholly unsustained. I do not intend to traverse that matter now. I am sick and tired also of pointing out that senators on this side of the chamber are just as much opposed to terror and horror on all sides, whether it be from the right, the left, or the centre, as any honourable senator opposite. I draw attention to  Senator Douglas  McClelland's statement that he believes that none of the migrants are entitled to work for the freedom of the countries whence they came. Most of them have come here to escape communist tyranny, and the honourable senator should know that. 
 I have spoken to hundreds of migrants who have told me that they came here to get away from communist tyranny. There is no doubt about that. I want to make quite sure that  Senator Douglas  McClelland is expressing the views of his Party when he says that these people are not entitled to work, even as  Senator Carrick  points out, within the law. for the freedom of their own country so that it can get away from the iron heel of communism. Of course, the honourable senator did what members of the Labor Party do in things of this nature. They arrive at a verdict and then look around for evidence. A gentleman was pushed out of the window and killed at the Yugoslav Club in Sydney on Saturday. For some reason or other, this serious event has not been referred to by honourable senators opposite. But not even they in their wildest flights of imagination would suggest that the dreaded Ustasha pushed this poor unfortunate man out of the window. 
I have heard talk about the burning of the Yugoslav flag. I am disgusted to hear such indignation expressed about the burning of a Communist flag when supporters of the Australian Labor Party have stood and watched the burning in public of the Australian flag. Their supporters have burned the Australian flag in public. Yet honourable senators rise here synthetically indignant about the burning of a Communist flag. Do not let us have this nonsense in this chamber. 
As I have said, the Australian Labor Party has already convicted the right-wing Croatian movement, the centre Croatian movement and even the left wing Croatian movement. There are some left wing Croatian movements. This morning, the Press carried a story which looks like torpedoing the whole of the nonsense which the Opposition has promoted in the last 2 days. That story stated that the shocking bombing in Sydney may have been the result of a family fued and have nothing whatever to do with politics. 
That is exactly what we want to do. We want to assist the police to complete their investigations and to prosecute to the utmost limits of the law anyone who is found guilty of a breach of the peace of this nature. If we are to talk on political points - it is not my intention to raise these points - it is just as likely that the KOS, which is the overseas arm of the UDBA, would be as likely to arrange and fake these incidents as the so-called dreaded Ustasha. I know that this is a revolutionary thought. I know it is silly to say so, but I prefer to wait to see what the evidence is before coming to a decision. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Works in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. In view of the wildly erroneous statements made by Labor leaders on the question of education, can he tell the Senate to what extent the percentage of youth population having access to universities has grown in the last decade under this Government? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General in his capacity as Minister in charge of security. Can the Minister advise the Senate whether the late Nikola Rasfudic, a Croatian by birth, was a naturalised Australian citizen with an Australian passport? ls it a fact that he visited his native Croatia - now part of Yugoslavia - in July of this year? Is it a fact that he had no political leanings but that on arrival in Zagreb be was arrested by the secret police, tortured for 19 days and murdered? ls it a fact that 5 other naturalised Australians are at present missing in Yugoslavia, pressure having been exerted upon them to renounce their Australian citizenship? Is it a fact that the Australian Ambassador in Belgrade has been denied all information on these people? Is it a fact that in July the Australian Government announced that KOS - the overseas branch of the UDBA secret police - was operating in Australia? Are these secret police of the same branch as those who arrested the late Nikola Ras.fudic? Will the Government have the courage to tell the Government of Yugoslavia that it demands that Australian passports be honoured and demands information on these missing Australian citizens? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral's attention been drawn to front page reports in the Melbourne 'Sunday Observer' that the KGB - the Russian secret police - is operating in Australia, possibly in terrorist activities against Yugoslavia and the Yugoslav secret police? As this report follows on last week's 'Daily Telegraph' report on the activities of the Yugoslav secret police in Australia I ask the Minister whether he, without breaching security, can amplify this report. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether it is a fact that last week the Government of Mainland China placed an order in the United States for $28m worth of wheat. Is it a fact that the Government of the United States has repeatedly refused to grant diplomatic recognition to the Government of Mainland China? Does this order placed by China in the United States rebut the furphy spread by the Australian Labor Party that Red China is refusing lo buy our wheat only because the Australian Government has so far declined to grant China diplomatic recognition? 
Sometimes one does not realise how good certain legislation is until one considers the weakness and the futility of the Opposition attack upon it. I think that the honourable senator who just resumed his seat has proved this truism. Apart from a little carping criticism he has simply read the provisions of the Bill and added some miserable assertions at the conclusion of his remarks. I want to refer merely to 2 of them. I rebut his statement that the onus of proof in the case of repatriation applications is on the ex-serviceman. The most cursory examination of existing legislation will show that in case of doubt the soldier applicant must be given the benefit. That is written into the legislation. As far as his drivelling nonsense in respect of the lottery of death is concerned, his remarks are hardly worth traversing. The function at the time of drawing the marbles is to ensure absolute honesty and integrity in the supply of the marbles so that those whose birth dates are called out may be absolutely certain that the matter has been done honestly and accurately. When he engages in this emotional clap-trap about kids going to their deaths after the ballot, we have to remember that approximately one-ninth only of those whose birth dates are called out will ever see service in the Army. That one-ninth, even when our commitment in Vietnam was at its highest, in fact seemed in many instances safer than on the roads of this country. 
The honourable senator suggested that hundreds of these people left the country in order to avoid the call-up. I would very much like to see statistics in relation to this claim. I cannot share his synthetic tears and indignation for those who refused to honour their obligation to this nation. I am sick of the talk of conscience when it is used as a blanket or as an excuse for cowardice or for refusal to accept one's obligation to the nation. If one has a conscience - it is possible that conscience may prevent certain people from serving in the forces - there are adequate provisions in the national service legislation to enable those who have a genuine conscientious objection to have their case heard. The Opposition should remember that every member of the Australian Labor Party voted in support of  the  national service legislation. 1 support the 4 Bills which are before the Senate but I propose to devote most time to Repatriation Bill (No. 2). The principle of repatriation is generally accepted by governments of all complexions in our community. In this case the Government is not only coping with inflationary pressures - it would be idle to deny they exist - but also it is changing certain principls of compensation. For example, the invidious practice whereby injury to a private soldier was regarded as less worthy of compensation than injury to an officer is being abolished.  Mr President,  I know that you as an ardent and erudite student of the classics are far more conversant with these matters than I am but it is my belief that Western society in relation to repatriation owes a great deal to ancient Rome - far more than we are prepared to concede or acknowledge. Tn about the time of Marius the Roman general - about 105 B.C. - the loyalty of soldiers was being transferred from an infant state to the commanding general. The soldier swore allegiance lo the general. The general gave him his daily pay of about lie. It is true that the general covered some of his superannuation and pension liability and his repatriation liability by permitting looting and plunder of enemy cities. Of course we strictly forbid this. lt was the general who appeared before the Roman Senate and argued the case for the legionary's repatriation benefits. Unlike this Government the Roman Senate was a bit grudging in the benefits which it was prepared to concede although usually in the end lt gave in. Most frequently the provision was a plot of land. For those whose service was outstanding the land might well contain a villa.  Mr President,  you will recall that one of the reasons why the legions of Julius Caesar so enthusiastically avenged his murder at the battle of Philippi was the extremely generous repatriation provisions which Caesar made for his legionaries. Many years later, about 130 A.D., the Emperor Hadrian reformed the law and administration of the Roman Empire, including that in regard to the repatriation of legionaries. Of course in Roman times the armies were generally victorious. In those times a victorious army took very few fatal casualties but it did take very many wound casualties - roughly about 10 times as great. Hence the need for repatriation services was borne in upon Hadrian. 
Thank you.  Mr President.  As I was saying, the Emperor Hadrian, because of the great number of wounds compared with fatal casualties, realised the need to set up some form of repatriation benefits. One of the most interesting things to emerge from our comparison with the provisions of the Emperor Hadrian is that the same time was required by the Emperor's legionaries as is now prescribed by British repatriation legislation, namely 20 years. If a legionary had served for 20 years he was permitted to retire and his upkeep became the responsibility of the general and the state. He was usually given a free plot of land and allowed to work it. Sometimes, as I said, he was given a villa. 
Yes. 1 think that could well have been the model for some of our present State legislation. If wounded - as 1 said, Roman wound casualties were heavy - the soldier was allowed to retire and given the same benefits. It seems reasonable to surmise that if the same repatriation provisions had been kept in force it is probable that Roman morale would not have disintegrated and that the Barbarians would have been unable to overcome Rome in the fifth century.  Mr President,  as you will recall, during Charlemagne's time and later through the Crusades the whole idea of repatriation seems to have been in abeyance, lt was not until somewhat more modern times that what was originally practised centuries ago began to emerge in the legislation and practice of Western countries. For example, in the United States the history of military compensation and pensions goes back to the colonial period. The Pilgrims of Plymouth colony in 1636 enacted a law providing that if any person shall be sent forth as a soldier and shall return maimed he shall be maintained competently by the colony during his life. That was the first of the American repatriation provisions. Later other American colonies made similar provisions although presumably the Treasury then as now was as smart in dealing with other departments. There was no actual appropriation by the colony treasuries to meet provisions which were made. The Continental Congress which sat during and after the American War of Independence developed the idea of a repatriation pension for ex-sevicemen and funds were then properly appropriated. Of course, since then there has been current and recurring legislation by American Congresses to bring the matter up to date because they accept responsibility for their wounded and maimed and their dependants exactly as we do here. 
In Great Britain the philosophy of repatriation began in a rather slipshod fashion where much of the payments were made to ex-servicemen who had been impressed, legally or illegally. The pension and repatriation payment depended largely on the whim of a personal commander. Of course, Cromwell was not averse to rewarding members of his model army for service during the campaign against the king. Now in Britain as here the government of the day fully recognises the serious responsibility it has to those who have risked their lives in defence of the nation. 
 Senator McManus,  I shall take that matter up on another occasion. It is interesting to note - I cannot help but be struck by this coincidence^ - that for serving officers to qualify in Britain for pensions on retirement they must have served for the same period as that prescribed centuries earlier by the 
Emperor Hadrian, namely, 20 years. I am one of those who believe servicemen deserve the very best from our community. 
To come now to the situation in Australia, I think I can say without contradiction, despite the carping criticism of  Senator Keeffe,  that this Bill is well worthy of support. A total of 300,000 Australians are going to benefit from this legislation. When one looks at the pension rates one must recognise, as  Senator Keeffe  rather grudgingly admitted, that because pension payments are free of income tax they therefore mean a greater sum in the hands of the recipients than they may bear on their face value. The general rate of pension is to be increased from $12 to $14 a week for those on the 100 per cent pension rate. I again express my pleasure that the invidious discrimination between officers and men has been eliminated. About 95 per cent of the 192,000 people in receipt of the general rate of pension will benefit from this legislation. The TPI rate is to be increased by $3.50 to $48 a week. The intermediate rate is to be increased by $2.75 to $34 a week. The maximum rate for an attendant is to be $1 7.50 a week. 
I realise that nothing we can do can repair the shattered limbs of the recipients of these pensions and put them back into the position in which they were. I realise also that nothing we can do in the way of money can restore a loved husband, brother or father. But I think it is commendable, at least having regard to the state of our society, that a reasonable attempt is being made to upgrade these pension payments. If I did have any criticism - I do not propose to develop this just at the moment - it is that the war widow's pension could have gone up a little more than the increase to $20 a week that she is to receive, although I am pleased to note that the domestic allowance has gone up to $8.50 a week and the pension for children of ex-servicemen is to be $7.35 a week. This legislation covers the whole general field of repatriation and it increases allowances in every field it touches. I cannot understand the Opposition's complaint about the position in 1969-70, although it is clear that the 1977.- 73 appropriation provides for an increased expenditure of about 33i per cent over the expenditure in that year. I suppose it is the vast increase in the percentage which has caused the Opposition its concern. 
In closing, 1 want to express the strongest condemnation of those experts, those academics, those newspapers, those magazines, those politicians - largely Labor Party politicians and their left wing friends - and all others who have continually denigrated the profession of arms. They have, by direct statement, by inference and by criticism, alleged that the profession of the soldier was that of a murderer. Nothing could be further from the truth. I am thankful that, especially in peacetime - of course, we take it for granted in wartime - there are honourable men and women who are prepared to devote their lives and their energies to the service of the nation in our defence forces. The risks they take, even in peacetime, are very real. One has only to consider for a moment the unfortunate 'Voyager' disaster to realise that in peacetime the men of the Navy are dicing with their lives for the benefit of the nation's security. I think the nation owes them all an incalculable debt. 1 point blank refuse to regard the serviceman who risks his life for our defence as being in any way inferior to a boilermaker, a metal trades worker or even a waterside worker. The serviceman must be given fair and just treatment when he is no longer serving. 1 believe that this legislation, together with the .projected defence forces retirement benefits legislation, will give the serviceman and his dependants at least that degree of frugal comfort and security to which his endeavours on behalf of the nation have justly entitled him. I support the 4 Bills. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Withers)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Would you like the Minister for Air to make some reference to that in his reply, if he can? 
1 shall not detain the Senate for more than 30 seconds.  Senator Douglas  McClelland and I have many disagreements on many political matters, but there are areas of agreement between us. One is the necessity for governmental encouragement to achieve an increase in the Australian content of our cinema and television material. I should like to point out one of the problems concerned with the programme 'Adventure Island'. It is sad to see that this outstanding programme is to be scrapped by the end of the year. I cannot understand it. I have seen no valid reason advanced as to why it should be scrapped. One of the difficulties that the honourable senator will appreciate and which 1 appreciate is that in the area of programming we must steadfastly refuse to put any pressure on the Australian Broadcasting Commission. lt must remain an independent programming authority. That does not mean that by debate and rational  argument  we may not possibly suggest to the Commissioners that a decision be reviewed, but from a political point of view it is quite impossible to put pressure on the ABC and say that it shall telecast this programme or it shall not telecast another programme. I have risen merely to draw attention to this and to point out to  Senator Douglas  McClelland that, in the words of the King of Siam, it is a puzzlement. 
With wheat sales to China in mind, can the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the Senate whether Australia's foreign policy has in any way inhibited the success of our international trading? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to an item in this morning's Press announcing the sale by the Australian Wheat Board of wheat worth $60m to Communist China? Does this sale follow the recent sale of wheat worth $28m by the United States of America to Communist China? Is it a fact that both Australian and the United States refused diplomatic recognition of Red China? Do these 2 sales confirm the statement made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  that wheat trade with China is independent of diplomatic recognition and rebut the statements of certain political tourists to the contrary? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts: Can the Minister advise the Senate of the general method of administration of the Commonwealth Literary Fund? Can the Minister state whether awards for the current year have yet been made? lt they have not been made, will he consider recommending that distinguished Australian author,  Mr Arthur  Calwell, for such an award? 
I wish briefly to express my approval of these 3 measures and also to indicate that I propose to support the amendment moved by  Senator Byrne.  I think it would be true to say that these Bills are merely an expression of the liberalising zeal which is consuming the Government. When one examines these Bills one sees them as a mere reflection of the taxation reduction philosophy which was the hallmark of the recent Budget - a Budget which, if I may say so in passing, has received such strong support, even from the Rt  Hon.  Arthur Augustus Calwell. Probate duties are a typical socialist manoeuvre whereby the State pursues a man after his death, as  Senator Withers  pointed out, to the disadvantage of his widow and children. This legislation, particularly the estate duty legislation, is a step in the right direction and ultimately, we trust, will move to a position where these imposts will be a thing of the past. I approve particularly of the increases in the exemption levels so far as rural properties are concerned. The city slicker does not always understand the extent to which the conduct, maintenance and operation of farming properties can be adversely affected by death duties. When a person holding snares in, say, a manufacturing business in a city dies, that does not mean that the business must cease in order that death duties may be paid, In the case of a rural estate, however, it may happen that so much of the farm has to be sold to pay death dutien  that the residue of that farm ceases to be viable. In those  circumstances  it is obvious that this form of taxation imposes an undue and unfair hardship on the farmer. Therefore, it is right and proper that the exemption granted to the rural producer should be over and above that granted to people in cities. A good deal of hardship is caused in any probate application by delay in estate duty assessment. I know from my own experience of cases in which the State authorities accept a certain valuation of a property but the Federal authorities insist upon a different valuation or a revaluation. The Federal authorities are not ad idem with their State brethren in making the valuation. 
The great increase in the exemption levels which these Bills provide will reduce the number of cases in which this matter becomes materially significant. I support the 3 Bills, and I think that  Senator Byrne  and his Party are to be congratulated on what they have done in moving this amendment. Yet I point out to members of the Democratic Labor Party that they have no monopoly of the desire to improve the lot of the taxpayer in regard to these duties. My recollection is that 2 years ago at least 9 members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party voted in support of a similarly worded resolution which, I think, was brought forward by  Senator Prowse.  T support the 3 Bills and the amendment. 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to a recently reported statement by  Mr Marko  Magaric of Footscray, the editor and manager of the Croatian newspaper Osyit that he has been threatened with death for publishing an expose of the so-called antiUstasha campaigner, one Jurevic? Is it a fact that the Supreme Court of Victoria recently refused to grant the said Jurevic an injunction to prohibit Magaric from publishing a 3-part article which described the said Jurevic as a 'liar, imposter, bigamist and fraud'? Is it a fact that complaints have been made to the AttorneyGeneral's Department that 4 of Magaric's advertisers also have been threatened with death unless they withdraw their advertising from his Croatian newspaper? Is it a fact that one such advertiser, 

 Mr Dusin Franac. claims that the threat made to him possibly was made by a member of Tito's UDBA, the Yugoslav secret police, known to be operating in Australia? Can the Attorney-General assure the Senate that adequate protection will be given to ordinary non-political Croatian migrants who refuse to bow to threats from Tito's secret police, its agents or anyone else? 

 - Mr President, I wish to direct some brief remarks to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in his capacity as Minister in charge of security. Am I in order? 
I am now speaking on the motion for the adjournment? 
I wish to direct the attention of the Attorney-General to some facts that have only recently been brought to my attention by a distressed mother whose 22-year-old son is in a Yugoslav prison because he is a member of a Croatian youth group - a song, dance, folkloretype of outfit - operating inside Australia. The number of occasions upon which Australian citizens are losing their freedom in visiting Yugoslavia is becoming far too numerous to be allowed to pass unnoticed or as some vague hoary allegation that they are members of some terrorist outfit. 
The facts regarding this young man are as follows: Nikola Grskovic lived at 16 Damon Road, Mount Waverley, in the State of Victoria. He was born at Vrbnik Croatia, on 13th December 1950. Until recently he was residing in Mount Waverley with his mother, Maria Deleaste, at her address and for a few months he had been residing in Perth. He decided to visit Croatia in order to visit his grandparents and his other relatives. He had come to Australia with his mother in 1965. He became a naturalised Australian citizen on 14th December 1970. He was called up for military service by the Australian Government on 22nd September 1971 and his call-up was deferred in order to enable him to finish his apprenticeship as a motor mechanic. He left Australia by air on 20th June 1972 for the holiday to which I have already referred. He intended to stay with his aunt, Lucia Apolonia, in Vrbnik He intended to visit his grandparents and other relatives who still resided there and also to visit the grave of his father. In all, he was to spend a 4 months holiday in the country in which he was born. 
On 4th July 1972-12 days after his arrival - members of UDBA, the Yugoslav secret police, called at his aunt's house and took him to gaol for questioning. On the same day they brought him back to his aunt's house to collect his clothes in order to go to prison. At this stage he was carrying an Australia passport for which he had applied in Perth in 1972. One of the interesting aspects of this matter is that the prison sentence began before the trial. On 22nd September a court trial was held, and I have been informed that the sole charge against this boy of 22 years was that of being a member of a Croatian youth group in Australia. This he admitted. The group gives singing and dancing concerts and indulges in other usual youth activities. Naturally, the members of the group would prefer a free Croatia, but they are not devoted to violence. They are not terrorists. 
Grskovic was sentenced to 2 years imprisonment for being a member of this group in Australia. He was in fact represented by a lawyer obtained by his aunt. The lawyer indicated his dissatisfaction with the 2-year sentence and said that an appeal would be lodged with the Supreme Court at Zagreb, but the hearing of the appeal has not yet taken place. Another aunt, a  Mrs Katarina  Fugosic on 3 occasions in July and August went to the Australian Embassy for help. But she was told that, because of the dual citizenship, the Yugoslav Government regarded the boy as a Yugoslav citizen and the Embassy could give no help. A particularly interesting aspect of this matter is that Grskovic's mother in Australia has been advised by the Yugoslav Consul-General, Franic Rukavine. that the Yugoslav Embassy had no information and knew absolutely nothing against her son, and that it was perfectly in order for him to visit Croatia. The Embassy had no charges to make against him in Australia. The facts which I have given to the Senate have come from information telephoned to the aunt in Croatia and from letters passing between the mother and the aunt. 
The purpose in raising this matter is to ask that some action be taken by our Government to protect the value of an Australian passport and the freedom of an Australian citizen who has already been called up for military service in this country, so that when visiting any parts of Europe the members of our migrant community can feel that the Australian Government is behind them and will give them the same protection as it would give to any other Australian citizen who may be travelling abroad. I commend the rather extraordinary facts of this case to the AttorneyGeneral and trust that some intermediary action will result in the release of this boy whose only offence is that he sings and dances in a Croatian youth group. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. In view of the forthcoming Federal election, will the Government remove 2 irritating restrictions upon radio broadcasting and television imposed upon these media many ages ago by a dying Labor administration? Will the Minister consider the repeal of the Calwellian provision against the dramatisation of political material and also the discriminatory restriction which prevents the transmission of political matter for 48 hours before polling day? If the Minister will not go as far as that, does he realise that half way through the Federal election campaign a blanket of silence on Federal matters will descend upon the media in Australia's most densely populated areas because of a State by-election in New South Wales? Does not the Minister regard this position as farcical? 
-I direct a question to the Attorney-General, either in that capacity or as the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, as it deals with political censorship. Is it a fact that the AttorneyGeneral appeared as one of 4 speakers on a commercial television programme debate last Monday night with the Rt Honourable John Gorton,  Dr .  James Cairns and a  Mr Mick  Young? Was such programme video taped? Is it a fact that during the discussion  Mr Gorton  referred to the influence of Mc Carmichael and  Mr Halfpenny  upon the Australian Labor Party? Is it a fact that this reference brought a passionate defence of these 2 men from  Dr Cairns,  ending in oleaginous adulation? Is it a fact that  Mr Gorton  then asked  Dr Cairns  whether the 2 men were communists and that  Dr Cairns  said that he did not know and it did not matter? Is it a fact that  Mr Gorton's  question and  Dr Cairns's  reply were edited out of the tape and not screened on television? Does the Australian Broadcasting Control Board have any authority to prevent this type of political censorship on a commercial channel? Would the Minister not agree that, in view of his own statements on this programme, it is important in the national interest that telecasts should be accurate and that Australians should be made fully aware of communist influence on any political party, especially the Australian Labor Party and some of its members? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General in his capacity as Minister in charge of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Is the AttorneyGeneral the sole Federal Minister authorised to permit telephone tapping in Australia? Can the Minister say whether the Prime Minister's telephone line was tapped last week by members of the Australian Labor Party or their agents? If no tapping took place, can the Minister inform the Senate how  Senator Douglas  McClelland of the ALP was able, in the Senate last Thursday, to ask a question which alleged a telephone call took place between the Prime Minister and  Sir Frank  Packer about what would, if true, have been a very private matter? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Is it not a fact that  Sir Robert  Madgwick, the  Chairman  of the Australian 
Broadcasting Commission, was a witness before a Senate inquiry into all aspects of Australian radio and television in June last? Is it a fact that when giving evidence on oath - I repeat on oath -  Sir Robert  stated that there was no political interference with ABC programming either from the present Government or from the Opposition? Is it a fact that the ABC Commissioners have virtually conceded the validity of the Government's complaints against 'This Day Tonight' bias by releasing its guidelines for fairness about a month ago, such guidelines having previously been issued to the 'This Day Tonight' staff prior to the Government complaint? Is it a fact that despite these guidelines the ABC 'This Day Tonight' programme a few nights ago descended to the use of an anonymous hooded terror, a dark shadow, to peddle the Australian Labor Party line on Jetair and make a vicious and wholly fallacious attack on the Government in respect thereof? 
I shall not detain the Senate but I wish to make a few remarks about the Wool Industry Bill and the Wool (Deficiency Payments) 
Bill which are being debated together. I think it would be true to say that the combination of the wool deficiency payments scheme and the activities of the Australian Wool Commission, welded together as they have been for the past 12 months in fact if not in theory, have produced perhaps one of the most efficient forms of aid to rural industry that this Government or any other has produced. I congratulate the Government on what it has done and I approve strongly of the 2 Bills which we are debating tonight. It will be recalled, but I should like to recapitulate it briefly, that a little over 12 months ago the wool industry was in a parlous condition. Average prices for greasy wool were between 26c and 29c per lb, a price which made production virtually uneconomic. It reflected great courage on the part of the Government that it was prepared to set up the original wool deficiency payments scheme with an initial capital of SI 00m plus SI 8m for administrative costs. 
This proved to be perhaps one of the most successful of government ventures into industry, if I can put it that way, in recent times. Although the deficiency payment was guaranteed at 36c per lb, as a result of careful and intelligent management by the Commission it now appears clear that far from costing the taxpayer anything the Commission will wind up this' section of its activities at all events with a profit of. between $20m and $25m. So in that sense both the Government and the wool grower have had the best of both worlds. Not only has the wool grower had the benefit of a guaranteed price for his product but the taxpayer who was supporting him in circumstances of very great difficulty has found that he has not had to contribute anything because of the intelligent way in which the Commission has been administered - and, I must concede, the rather fortunate upturn in wool prices which is now taking place. 

 Senator Maunsell said that it is unlikely in the immediate future that wool deficiency payments will be called upon because of, as I have said, the upturn in prices. There has been a very marked improvement in sales and so far as the experts can tell us - of course, nobody can be infallible in these matters - it seems that prices next season will be at least as buoyant as those realised towards the end of the current season. There is one other matter to which I would like to draw attention. I feel that since the deficiency payments scheme is designed to provide a form of stability in the industry or a form of certainty for the grower, this could more advantageously be done if the period in respect of which the legislation was passed was, say, 3 years instead of one year. However, I leave this for the Government to consider. Last year when this matter originally came before the Parliament it was disappointing to find that the Opposition was, in essence, opposed to it. I think it is true to say that its entire policy revolves around compulsory acquisition. In the wool industry there is a fair division of opinion on this  matter.  Many wool growers believe that compulsory acquisition is desirable and many believe that it is undesirable. I think it was prudent of the Government to give the directors of the Australian Wool Corporation which is being formed the task of conducting a full and comprehensive inquiry into all systems of marketing. 
There are 8 or 9 parts of the Wool Industry Bill. I do not propose to traverse them all since my main interest in entering this matter was to refer to deficiency payments. If we look at the economics of the matter there might be some quibble over the 79.37c per kilogramme which was the original level at which the deficiency payments were guaranteed. That amount is equivalent to 36.07c per lb. I am taking no strong part in this. I merely mention matters which have been put to me by various wool growers in Victoria. It could well be that with the increasing costs in the industry 36.07c per lb or 79.37c per kilogramme may not represent the certain guarantee which the Government had intended the industry to receive. Without pretending to be dogmatic in this case - I shall speak of the old fashioned monetary units - I have here strong and persuasive arguments to show that the guaranteed price should be between 42c and 45c per lb. But that is a matter which the more erudite and experienced people in the industry are in a better position to recommend to the Government. No doubt the directors of the Wool Corporation will do that when their inquiry is completed. 
I feel that this legislation is important since it is needful that the Corporation have authority to control the complete marketing of wool. It may well be - I am not dogmatic about this - that after due and complete inquiry the directors may recommend some form of compulsory acquisition. Of course they will have power to police the clip, to check on samples and to do all things needful to maintain the high standard of Australian wool selling. One of the difficulties in the past in relation to wool marketing has been that from the fall of the hammer the wool growers had little or no control over the cost of freight and shipping of his product, lt appears to me that if we have this Wool Corporation, this omnipotent body controlling the industry - I use the. words in a generic sense - having regard to the finance available it might well be in a position to sell wool at the point of demand so that freight could be under . its control before the goods left Australia. As I said earlier I do not propose to traverse the whole 8 parts of the Wool Industry Bill because my interest is mainly to direct attention to the significance of the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill. This is one of the most successful and interesting excursions by the Government into the field of assistance for rural industry. I commend both Bills to the Senate. 
My question is  directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask the Minister whether his attention has been drawn to Friday's inaccurate comment by one,  Dr Jim  Cairns, on the present peace negotiations in Indo-China. In view of the fact that  Dr Cairns  seems to believe that the current peace terms were available from Hanoi 6 or 7 years ago, will the Minister outline to the Senate the fundamental changes existing between those and the current peace terms? 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Is the Minister aware that the Senior Vice-President of the Australian Labor Party, one  Mr R.  J. Hawke, in a speech less well publicised than usual recently addressed the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations here in Canberra? Has the Minister been informed that  Mr Hawke  told the Council that a Labor government was pledged to give the Australian Broadcasting Commission an independence charter, that this would not succeed if certain senior management people were allowed to stay in their present positions and that a Labor government would have to deal with them? Can the Minister say whether this is a threat to sack those senior executives of the Commission who recently had the courage to discipline a junior executive? Will the Minister make a statement setting out the Government's strong adherence to the principle of genuine independence for the ABC? As  Mr Hawke  seems to have replaced  Mr Whitlam  for the purpose of making significant policy statements for the Australian Labor Party, does  Mr Hawke's  statement indicate the iron political control which Labor would exert over the ABC? 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Government assented to send a naval vessel into the French Pacific nuclear testing zone in protest. Has the Government begun proceedings before the International Court of Justice in respect of such tests? If protests are in train, having regard to the Government's dedicated commitment to open government, can the Minister explain why it was necessary to send a scientific observer in secret to Tahiti to await and observe such nuclear tests? Oan the Minister explain why no similar protests are being mounted by this Government against the Red Chinese nuclear tests at Lop Nor - marginally closer to Australia - which tests, having regard to prevailing wind currents, are far more likely to pollute the Australian atmosphere than the French tests? Is this failure to protest against China just another example of the  snivellingly  obsequious nature of the Whitlam Government's so-called independent foreign policy- 
I direct a question without notice to the Minister for the Media. Having regard to the dynamic approach of this Government, is there any intention to speed up the introduction of colour television which is at present set for 1975, as the Minister said earlier today? 

 Senator DOUGLAS MCCLELLANDDuring the recent Federal election campaign the Prime Minister indicated that the Government's policy on the introduction of colour television would be the same as that of the outgoing Government. That means that colour television will be introduced into Australia in March 1975. 
 I direct to the Minister for the Media a question which refers to his title in some degree. Does the Minister not agree that no matter what barbarities we may have committed against its original Latin derivation the term 'media' would normally be understood by simple -men to include the daily newspapers? Can he explain to the Senate why daily newspapers have been excluded from his care and solicitude? Does such exclusion have any particular political significance? 
 I was thinking of a different baron. Is it a fact that 16 former members of the Parliamentary Press Gallery have now been given positions as public relations officers for Ministers in this new dynamic Government? Does this fact explain so much of the euphoric reporting during last year's Federal election? In fairness to these PR mcn, would the Minister explain to them that the maximum tenure of office is now something less than 3 years? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence.  I  refer to the Government's well publicised announcement of general increases in the defence services pay and allowances. Is it not a fact that because certain allowances and increments have been cancelled and the increases made taxable, most defence services officers are now worse off financially than they were before such increases were made? If this is in fact the position, will the Minister take appropriate action to. correct this anomaly? 
I ask the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Having regard to this Governments dynamic response to public opinion, is he aware that the current gallup poll shows that 2 out of every 3 people favour the recognition of Taiwan? 
My question is  directed  to the Special Minister of State. Has the Ministers attention been drawn to an eco  nomic and political treatise by Professor Hans Arndt, who resigned from the Labor Party over  Mr Whitlam'*  performance in China, dealing with what the professor called the myth of China trade? Is the Government holding any hopes of substantial trade relations with China? Is the Government aware that the overseas trade figures for Taiwan are slightly better than those for the whole of Red China and mat such trade is conducted by free men? If this is so, would it not be extremely desirable in Australia's interests to maintain official trade links wilh Taiwan? If this is so, will the Government in the exercise of its independent foreign policy seek  Chairman  Mao's permission to set up at least a trade mission as has been done by Austria, Belgium and other countries? 
In directing this question to the AttorneyGeneral I am not seeking' a legal opinion. Can the AttorneyGeneral explain to the Senate the provisions of Australian law, if any, in respect, of the impeachment of members of Parliament? Do they follow the American practice, from which we borrowed so much of our Constitution, where the matter, is raised in the Houses, of Representatives but the decision is actually made in the Senate? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I refer to Press reports that he intended to present his report on Croatian extremists to the Yugoslav authorities in Australia before tabling it in the Parliament. Has such report already been shown to the Yugoslav officials in Australia, either for their approval or for any other purpose? What newspapers or magazines, if any, are at present in receipt of such report? Is he aware of the activities of the. Yugoslav secret police operating in Australia, formerly called the UDBA but now called the SUP? If not. is he aware of a telecast by President Tito from Sarajevo on 2 1 st September 1972 in which he said: 
We would have- 
He said much more than that. He said: 
We would have no trouble wilh Croats in Yugoslavia if they were not stirred up and helped by terrorists from Australia, but we will fix them. We have already sent agents of our secret police to hunt them down. We will send more- 
 I simply state that  Senator Mulvihills  statement that I attacked my own Party when in government for cancelling Rover's passport is not true. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General in his  capactiy  as Minister in charge of security. I refer to his answer to me yesterday on the matter of  President  Tito's telecast stating that he had sent his secret police agents to Australia to crush Croatians. I ask the Attorney-General: In the course of his answer to me, does he recall saying that in essence no report of his officers had been given to the Yugoslav authorities in Australia, and that he personally, certainly would not make any such reports available to the Yugoslavs before presenting them in the Parliament? If this is so, I draw the AttorneyGeneral's attention to a statement in the Melbourne 'Sun' on 6th March, which reads: 

 Mr Whitlam has already told the Yugoslav Government of some Federal police findings on the activities of Croatian nationalists from Australia. 
If this is correct, can the Attorney-General inform the Senate whether  Mr Whitlam  is now administering the security section of his portfolio? Can be explain why this information was given by  Mr Whitlam  to a foreign power before giving it to this Parliament? Is this another instance of our new independent foreign policy being independent of the Senate? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour. Is it not a fact that the Australian Council of Trade Unions is engaged in setting up a building company in Australia? If so, is it not a fact that finance for this company is coming predominantly from a foreign country which has been in the habit of inviting  Mr Hawke,  Senior VicePresident of the Australian Labor Party, to visit it? I hasten to add that it is not the United States of America. Is it not a fact that, under arrangements already published, overseas interests will be entitled to 4 seats on the board and to elect the chairman? In these circumstances, will the Minister outline what action the Government proposes to take to prevent this Australian enterprise from falling under foreign domination? 
Having regard to the earlier answer given by the Attorney-General relating to his dedication to law and order I ask: Has his attention been drawn to the screaming banner poster of this week's Murdoch 'Truth' stating 'Plot to Kill Whitlam'? Will the Minister assure the Senate that proper security precautions will be taken to protect the person of the Prime Minister? 
Will he further assure the Senate that Cabinet dissension has not reached these alarming proportions? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it not a fact that the Commonwealth Government has power to proclaim certain areas of land as being required for Commonwealth purposes at some future time - for example, in respect of a proposed airport? Is it not a fact that during this period the owners of that land are virtually unable to deal with it and that its value drops accordingly? Can the Minister advise whether any such proclamation has been made in respect of any proposed jet airport or other airport near the town of Cranbourne in Victoria? If this has been done, can the Minister state when the owners will be definitely advised of the acquisition, how much of their land will be required and the amount of their compensation? 
-Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to a newsletter, dated February 1973, from the Divorce Law Reform Association of Queensland which urges support for him personally and which states, in part: 
Instant free divorce on demand this year - For those in the know, especially with money, instant divorce on demand has been available in Australia since 1959. The new rules since 1st February now make it free. 
Is this a true statement of the effect of the new rules? 
I ask the Minister for the Media: Is H a fact that $250,000 has been made available to the company or firm that produced the film The Adventures of Barry McKenzie' by the Australian Film Development Corporation, in the setting up of which I had a minuscular part? Is it a fact that this sum was the full cost of producing this ghastly, vulgar film? Irrespective of the box office success of this excrescence, can the Minister explain why $250,000 was made available to the producer of this film without the producer putting up any front money which, I understand, is the normal requirement? Is it a fact that  Mr Phillip  Adams is one of the 3 owners of the organisation which produced this film? Is it a fact that  Mr Phillip  Adams was one of the publicity officers of the Australian Labor Party who directed its publicity campaign for the last Federal election? Even if this money was made available before the election, can the Minister explain the break with tradition that any producer must, in normal circumstances, put up portion of the front money so that the entire cost of his production is not financed by the Australian taxpayer? Finally, is it a fact that the taxpayers' money was being used to support this biased assistance even before the election? 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General and refer to the forthcoming visit to this country of a character known as Dzemal Bijedich, described by the Minister as the distinguished Premier of Yugoslavia, ostensibly to discuss Croatian nationalists. Has the Minister been personally acquainted with Bijedich for some few years? Will the Minister, so far as it lies within his power - I realise that there are difficulties in doing so - prevent Bijedich from having any discussions with the Yugoslav secret police operating in this country? Does the Minister know that Bijedich is generally believed in Yugoslavia to have been responsible for the kidnapping and imprisonment without trial of Father Krunoslav Draganovich from Italian territory near Trieste on 10th September 1967? Will the Minister exercise his well known interest in human rights to inquire from Bijedich whether Father Draganovich is still alive and when, if ever, formal charges will be laid against him? 
I will not detain the Senate for very long,  Mr Deputy President. 
Government supporters - Hear, hear! 
I thought that would be a popular decision. I merely wish to debunk some of the nonsense that the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  has just placed before the chamber. It appears that the Minister thinks that the term 'sub judice' comes from St Paul and that, like charity, those words cover a multitude of sins. Sub judice does not cover a multitude of sins. Sub judice refers only to those matters which would adversely affect current litigation. Nobody on the Government side of the chamber has said one word as to what the litigation between Burchett and  Senator Kane  is. Nobody knows whether Burchett is- 
Will the honourable senator keep quiet and let me put my point of view. I am going to say my piece no matter how much honourable senators opposite despise free speech. I am going to have my say. I am not going to be trodden upon by a lot of socialist troglodytes. 
Government supporters - Oh! 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! 
I shall withdraw that word if you want me to,  Mr Deputy President.  If they are not troglodytes they are people who are opposed to the principles of free speech, if I may phrase it in that way. The Senate is not dealing with the merits. Nobody knows whether Burchett has- 
Can I have my say? 

 Senator Turnbull - You have been interjecting all night. 
I have hardly said anything. I will get around in a few moments to the nonsense  Senator Turnbull  put before the Senate. I had hoped that it would not be necessary for me to deal with the rubbish that he put before the chamber. I want to get back, if I may, to the facts of the matter.  Senator Bishop  wandered all over the place and referred to matters which were not at all relevant to the subject matter of the motion. The point is whether  Senator Gair's  notice of motion should be giving the procedural courtesy of being debated. Honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber, in their tender solicitude for anybody who is well to the left of Brezhnev, Kosygin, Mao Tse-tung or the late lamented  Chairman  Ho, have rushed forward and put a defence which, from my observations of his writings and appearances on television, Burchett himself would not put. They have rushed forward to prevent the procedural motion from being even debated. I am not going to go into the matter of the merits. I may be unique in that I will be the only honourable senator in this chamber to address himself exclusively to the legal aspects of the entire procedure. 
I cannot hear what Feathers' is saying over there. I know of the charity and the well meaning nature and the integrity of my friend,  Senator Harry  Cant, but I was astounded to hear him make the allegation that this matter was being debated in order to assist a member of this chamber who was involved in legal proceedings. I know that  Senator Cant,  having heard the explanation put forward by  Senator McManus,  does not adhere to his original statement, since the person concerned is dining at Government House with the Honourable E. G. Whitlam, the Duke of Edinburgh and other distinguished personages. Anybody who is dining with the Honourable E. G. Whitlam must of necessity be like Caesar's wife, Calpurnia - just dripping with integrity. I want also to refute the rather arrogant assumption of  Senator Bishop  that the Senate must obsequiously truckle to any matter which the current temporary government puts before it. 
Mandate! I have never heard such nonsense as is spoken by  Senator Mulvihill.  As  Senator Poke  will tell you,  Mr Deputy President,  the word 'mandate' comes from the Latin 'mandare', which means to command. Obviously no-one who voted for the Australian Labor Party, however misled he may have been in the past, would have been voting for all the nonsense for which the Labor Party stands. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - I trust that the honourable senator will relate his remarks to the question that is before the Chair. 
 Mr Deputy President,  you must admit that in some mild way I am being diverted from the path of righteouness by honourable senators opposite, who will not listen to what I have to say without interjecting. Having put those views before the chamber, I wish to say that I feel that the least the Senate .can do is allow  Senator Gair's  motion to come forward for debate, and with that I am in full accord. 
Is the Minister for 
Primary Industry aware of economic difficulties faced by Victorian potato growers and the general hostility shown on popular diet charts to the potato and the consequent percentage reduction in consumption? Has his attention been drawn to a calorie count published recently by an English researcher, which shows that the potato is a far less serious calorie offender than is commonly believed? Does the Minister know that this chart shows that a boiled potato weighing  31/2  oz contains 75 calories whereas a mutton chop of the same weight contains 629 calories? The chart lists a whole range of foods. I will not read the whole chart. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is it a fact that in September this year renewal of international trade talks under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade will take place? Will the Government issue a brief statement on the operation of GATT so far as it affects Australia's current major trading partners? I believe that there are half a dozen countries with which trade relations are of major significance. Can the Minister say whether the question of the United States duty of 25ic per lb greasy wool could be taken up under these talks? The Minister will appreciate that that would be of great significance to our rural economy. I refer also to the current heavyweight trade tour about to visit Red China from Australia. In view of the fact that Taiwan's overseas trade is many millions of dollars greater than that of Red China, will the Minister extend the tickets and the time of this delegation so that it may  inlude  Taiwan in its endeavours? 

 - Mr President, you will recall that during question time I indicated that I would seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
In addressing my question to the Attorney-General I advise him that it is based on a statutory declaration I have in my hand. Can the Attorney-General explain why the home of Franjo Till, a Croatian invalid pensioner of 17 Nineteenth Street, Narrabundah, Australian Capital Territory, was entered and searched in the dead of night - at 3.25 a.m., to be precise - on 18th March last by a Commonwealth policeman, one Alfred Meir? Does the Minister know that Alfred Meir was accompanied by one other man in plain clothes who spoke fluent Croatian and who refused to identify himself? Is he aware that no member of his police force speaks fluent Croatian? Is he aware that the Commonwealth police officer could not or would not produce a search warrant, even when Till asked for it? Is he aware that this raid took place in the presence of 6 adults and a number of children, all of whom were wakened and terrified by a raid so typical of Nazi Germany? Does he know that nothing was found in the pensioner's house? Can he explain why the man accompanying Constable Meir was, according to Till, a member of the Yugoslav secret police? If so, why was a member of the communist secret police allowed to take part in a raid upon the home of an Australian citizen? Can he inform the Senate how many Yugoslav secret police came to Australia with the man who he called a distinguished visitor, one Bijedic, once c'hief of the secret police in Yugoslavia? Can he inform the Senate how many Yugoslav secret police accompanied raids upon Australian homes in Canberra during the past 10 to 12 days? Can he attempt to justify the series of raids which he knows were made upon Australian homes - private property - during this period, without search warrants? Is this intended to be the standard procedure by the Minister's new FBI or should I say Murphy's Mafia'? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Does he recall that on many occasions during his spell in Opposition he stated that  Senator Greenwood  had ample evidence to prosecute Croatian terrorists? As all this evidence has been available to him now for 4 months, why has he not prosecuted anybody? Does this mean that he was in error in stating previously that  Senator Greenwood  had ample evidence? If not, by what stretch of imagination does he justify his raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation? 
I do not think it is necessary for me to advert to the nonsense just put before the chamber by  Senator Negus.  There is not a shred of proof, an atom of proof, to confirm what he said. Therefore I do not propose to waste any time in chasing him up blind alleys.  Senator Wheeldon  apparently has been so brainwashed by his recent visit to his friends in Hanoi to give them such aid and comfort as his presence would undoubtedly do that he is quite incapable of understanding the processes in a democratic community. In his cavalier fashion - perhaps I should almost say clownish fashion - he is a little like the gentleman who slaps up windmills which nobody is defending and then knocks them over himself with tremendous gusto. I refer to his statement, that people on this side of the chamber alleged that searches were made of private houses without warrants but had changed their minds about producing the evidence. I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a statutory declaration by Franjo Till, an invalid pensioner of 17, 19th Street, Narrabundah, which abundantly will rebut the suggestion made by  Senator Wheeldon. 
I,  Franjo  Till, invalid pensioner, of 17. 19th Street, Narrabundah, Australian Capital Territory, a naturalized Australian citizen, do solemnly and sincerely declare that at approximately 3.25 a.m. on Sunday morning, 18th March, 1973, a number of plain clothed policemen woke my family and myself by knocking and kicking at the door of my house at the above address. 
They called me by my full name,  Franjo  Till',  in  such perfect accent that I  thought  they were some of my own Croatian friends. For this reason I opened the door. 
Two men in plain clothes immediately pushed me back into the room, and walked in. There were 4 children, children of a visiting friend, sleeping in that room. 
I asked these men who they were, I asked them to identify themselves. One produced papers showing him to be a Commonwealth Police Officer, by name of 'Alfred Meir'. I am positive that the second man, who refused to identify himself, was a Yugoslav police officer, because though he spoke very little to me he pronounced Croatian names and spelt them rapidly in a way which is not possible for one not from my own country. They asked for the names of everyone in the house, and wrote them all down. Including the names of the children. 
The Police tried to make everybody, including the 6 children under the age of 10, to get up. The children were very frightened, and began to cry. 
I asked the Police repeatedly did they have a warrant to come into my house like that, but they said they did not need one, and they did not produce one. 
As there were more than  6  adults in the house, visitors from Melbourne, the Police could not do much in the way of search without putting people out of the house. They did not do this, but they looked through the house thoroughly without touching anything. They left after about15 minutes. They did not at any time tell me why they had forced their way into my house or what they wanted, or by what authority. At no time did they produce a warrant to search my house. Their attitude to myself, my wife, and my guests was very rough and insulting. When they left, I followed them outside, and found that there were more Police waiting outside, in  a  proper marked Police car. 
The next day the Police returned, when my wife was alone in the house. They forced their way into my house again, against my wife's will to let them in. 
AND I make this solemn declaration by virtue of the Statutory Declarations Act 1959, and subject to the penalties provided by that act for the making of false statements in statutory declarations, conscientiously believing the statements contained in this declaration to be true in every particular. 
Franjo Till 
Declared at Canberra, the Twenty-third day of March 1973, before me, 
T. Aldcroft, JP 
Justice of the Peace (N.S.W.) 
 I have 4 other documents here, all of which rebut the clownish suggestion made by  Senator Wheeldon  that there is no evidence of a search and entry of private property without warrants. All of this relates to the whipped up pantomime which has been foisted on this country for the past 12 days. This evening we have heard the Tasmanian Devil howling from his corner in the chamber a great deal of drivelling nonsense suggesting that  Senator Greenwood  was indifferent to the welfare ofhis country. 
He is certainly no longer in the chamber. Of course, solicitude for the country as distinct from solicitude for Sena tor Turnbull is a radical new departure on his part.I do not want to chase him up any blind alleys, either. There are 2 or 3 other matters. The most significant point in the course of this debate has been the sane, cold, calm, judicial expression of  Senator Wright  when he posed the question and pointed out that at question time today  Senator Murphy  admitted that ASIO had never withheld information from him. 
All I say is that the matter was referred to at question time and my recollection is that the Attorney -General admitted that ASIO had not withheld information from him. The most obvious thing about  Senator Murphy's  raid on ASIO and the matters related thereto is the complete and absolute absence of any evidence anywhere as to the necessity for it. We had what  Senator Murphy  calls a visit, taking along 27 police officers - quite a lot of people to carry a visiting card. After  Senator Murphy's  performance at question time this afternoon I think that his credibility must be at the lowest ebb at which it has ever been. 
One does not need allegations if one is speaking about ASIO and one belongs to the Australian Labor Party. All we have to do is remember that half of them want to disband ASIO. The vote was 24 to 24. No amount of casuistry, humbug and nonsense from honourable senators opposite will- 
That was at the meeting at Launceston in 1971. The vote was 24 all. 
Well, 23 all.I speak subject to correction by an expert on that. They want to get rid of ASIO. This pantomime to which the nation has been subjected for the past 12 days is merely an exercise in this process. The sooner we get rid of all the humbug, cut the cackle and come to the real reason for the raid, the better the nation will be served. Apparently all one has to do under the present Administration is to make wild allegations, leak stuff to the Press, radio and television, make melodramatic assertions about one's own department in Canberra or Melbourne, and one comes up with a legal case which a first year student would be ashamed to put forward and which a simple suburban lawyer would view with absolute horror. I know this is a revolutionary theory but I believe that even members of ASIO have rights. It is the sort of thing which they would not receive from honourable senators opposite. I know it sounds silly but they are devoted servants of this nation. They do not deserve the odium which has been heaped upon them by the AttorneyGeneral to carry his baby for his own ideological shibboleths. 
During the recent raid in Melbourne the Commonwealth police, according to the newspapers - presumably these were inspired leaks - herded approximately 400 people into the auditorium of the ASIO building. Information comes to me from another source that among these people were a large number of terrified young female typists who were weeping and wailing and upset, not knowing what the local version of the Mafia was doing. It is a fact that a number of members of ASIO were denied their personal freedom as a result of the arrival of  Senator Murphy's  friends on this visit. Admittedly this was for only a short time but the visit was almost probably illegal. I would hesitate to give a constitutional opinion but it is probable that all members of ASIO who suffered this tort, instigated by the Attorney-General, would have a right of action against the Commonwealth for this interference with their rights. 
In dealing with socialist activities it always pays to read the works of socialist writers. It would be conceded generally, even by people like  Senator Wheeldon,  that George Orwell was a very famous and distinguished socialist writer. I suppose that in general terms George Orwell is famous for 2 things. One is his Animal Farm' and the other, of course, is 1984'. In the masterly novel 'Animal Farm', you will recall,  Mr President,  the little parable about pigs securing ascendency over the entire farm. The pigs were running it as a socialist enterprise. They gathered the produce and sold it. But, as in all socialist societies there happened to be certain internal, economic, cultural and social difficulties. In order to distract attention from these difficulties it was necessary that the pigs in 'Animal Farm' have a diversion. It was necessary that they have someone upon whom they could lay the blame for all their own shortcomings and their own difficulties.  Mr President,  as you will recall from your own erudite studies, this diversion was called 'Snowball'. Snowball was a rebel pig. It is not my intention to go right through 'Animal Farm' showing the similarities between the activities of the AttorneyGeneral and the head of Orwell's 'Animal Farm'. But it is almost impossible to escape the view that  Senator Murphy's  activities in ASIO are a pure Snowball.  Senator Murphy  is using a diversion. He is exercising his rights to conduct a diversion, if he wants to, and that is the - 
Well, the honourable senator is not capable of taking it in. I do not know why honourable senators opposite should feel that a socialist parable should be so objectionable. I would have thought that they would like to have learned a bit of real socialism. But it appears that they are socialists only when  Mr Hawke  or someone else who can whip them into shape is about. We return now to the almost impossible position in which the Attorney-General has placed his own Department. Even before this obnoxious raid on his own Department there were Press allegations that Great Britain and the United States of America were already withholding security information. 
Debate interrupted. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General and I remind him that both at question time yesterday and during the debate last night I gave him sworn evidence relating to the midnight entry to and a search without warrant by Commonwealth Police of an Australian pensioner's home. I also drew his attention to the believed presence of a Yugoslav secret policeman at such search and entry. I ask: What steps has he taken to check on' this Nazi-type midnight doornock and search without a warrant and what does he propose to do about it? 
In the extraordinary absence of the Attorney-General, I want to ask  Senator Willesee- 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate, by saying that I have taken to heart his earlier advice. I am now a nice gentleman and there is no sting in the tail. Will the Government consider introducing legislation to make it an offence to burn an Australian flag, a matter which has been raised with me by a number of constituents? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. In view of the high level police advice, to which he referred in answer to questions earlier this afternoon, to cancel the visit of the Yugoslav Prime Minister,  Mr Bijedic,  why was it necessary to allow  Mr Bijedic  to visit Australia at aU? 
Are you answering the question? My question goes on: What was the purpose  of  the visit? Since  Mr Bijedic  met practically nobody except Labor politicians, was the visit worth while? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the cost to the Australian taxpayer of the security pantomime  put on for  Mr Bijedic's  visit particularly as not one Croatian appears to have been within miles of  Mr Bijedic?  Finally, why is it necessary now for our Prime Minister to make a reciprocal visit to Communist Yugoslavia? 
Last week I asked the Attorney-General to investigate cases I mentioned of searches of homes of Australian citizens at night and without search warrants by Commonwealth police who, in 2 instances, possibly were accompanied by Yugoslav secret police. In view of the serious nature of the suggestion I ask the Attorney-General: What has he done about this matter so far and what does he intend to do? It is a matter of great significance to a number of my constituents. 
I speak for myself on this Bill. I oppose the Bill insofar as Part B, as set out in the explanatory memorandum, is concerned. I have no objection to the passage of that part of the measure which refers to the remission of sales tax on certain goods used in the conversion of business and industrial equipment to the metric system. But I oppose that part of the Bill which eliminates the sales tax on pessaries and on the contraceptive pill. I do not intend to debate at this stage any moral argument that may be adduced. This is neither the time nor the place to do so. Being such a piffling matter, I do not think it is worthy that the time of the national Parliament should be taken up with debating this sort of nonsense. My view is that sales tax ought to be abolished in toto. I regard sales tax as iniquitous. If the Government were sincere and wanted to make a genuine attack on the cost of living it would, firstly, look at the elimination of the sales tax imposed in the more essential areas and, secondly, get around to abolishing sales tax altogether. The abolition of sales tax is a matter which should appeal to supporters of the Government because sales tax is not based on an ability to pay. The downtrodden and oppressed battler pays the same sales tax as the wealthiest member of the community. 
To avert to the actual economics of the matter, I have been informed on credible authority that the sales tax on the pill is 0.45 cents a day or night, as the case may be. I simply say that any man who is put off by a cost of 0.45 cents a night is simply not serious, any more than the bringing of this measure before the Senate is a serious attempt to improve the economic structure of our taxation system. On the basis of the current average weekly wage, one week's wages would pay the sales tax on the pill for 74 years. That does something to illustrate how trifling is the matter which is before the Senate. This measure has been hailed as some form of emancipation for womankind. It is nothing of the sort. It is an insult to the feminine intelligence. Any government which flouts the feminine intelligence is riding for a fall. If, as I said before, the Government is serious about improving the position with regard to sales tax and other matters it should look at those things which are used to save life. Certain lifesaving equipment carries a sales tax of 15 per cent. Some radio and electronic equipment used to save lives in floods, fires and national disasters carries a sales tax of 27½ per cent. I am not impressed with the argument that this tax was originally imposed by a government which I supported. I simply say that in my view there are other matters which far more urgently call out for correction. Many useful household items which enter into the cost of living carry a tax of 27½ per cent. 
This measure, which, as I have said, deals with a tax costing less than half a cent a day, is a farce. Imagine a modern Pyramus and Thisbe going joyously to their trysting place because the sales tax is off the pill. Imagine Troilus mounting the Trojan walls, sighing his soul towards the Grecian tents and speeding his feet in that direction because the sales tax is off the pill. Imagine Anthony knocking joyously at the door of Cleopatra's tent because the sales tax is off the pill. Imagine 
Romeo and Juliet no longer arguing Montague and Capulet because Whitlam has taken the sales tax off the pill. Have honourable senators ever heard anything so ridiculous? This Bill is humbug. The nation stands on the brink of inflationary disaster and Whitlam takes the sales tax off the pill. Australia is losing all her overseas friends - she has lost her best ally - and what does this Government come up with? A decision to take the sales tax off the pill. Foreign countries are telling the Leader of this Government to mind his own bloody business and what happens? Whitlam takes the sales tax off the pill. Because I cannot stand posturing, pirouetting and humbug in politics, I oppose that portion of the Bill relating to the removal of sales tax from the contraceptive pill. 
1 rejoice that in this Senate democracy still has a chance. Accordingly, I can express myself freely. I think the speech of the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  was a disgrace to this chamber and that he should be ashamed of himself for his prevarications. The Senate has been subjected to a most extraordinary statement by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  which we are debating. It was supported by a mass of largely, but not entirely, irrelevant documents and was prefaced by a chorus of leaks to friendly, sycophantic pressmen and obsequious radio commentators. The nation had been led to expect a dramatic exposure of Croatian terrorism. This seems to me to have been the greatest flop since the Edsel Ford. 
The way in which  Senator Greenwood,  the Opposition and its allies have demolished the Attorney-General's case and the way in which  Senator Greenwood  has presented his case, will become a classic in this Parliament. In fact, so devastating and so unanswerable was the Opposition's work that we had the spectacle last night of the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  standing in this chamber and pleading for mercy for the Attorney-General. The Government which sat here so arrogantly, so complacently and so self-righteously a week ago has been reduced now to a shivering mass of grovelling jelly. I do not normally rely upon newspaper editorials to support me, but I did happen to notice an editorial headed 'Case answered' in this morning's 'Sydney Morning Herald' from which I propose to read a few lines. The editorial begins: 
It was certainly  Senator Greenwood's  day in the Senate yesterday. In his very capable and convincing reply to  Senator Murphy's  savage attack on him and the previous government last week, he scored a clear victory on points. In fact, it is now becoming increasingly doubtful, after his circus-like antics of recent weeks- 
 Mr Deputy President,  this is a matter of some substance and I think the nation would like to know about it. I want the galahs corner kept quiet. The editorial said: 
In fact, it is now becoming increasingly doubtful, after his circus-like antics of recent weeks, whether  Senator Murphy  has the balance and the dispassionate judgment required to make him a successful AttorneyGeneral. Everything he touches seems to be blowing up in his face - first the outlandish raid on ASIO headquarters, next his pet divorce rules, and now his attack on the previous government's handling of Croatian terrorist activities in Australia. It is hardly surprising that the debate on these activities was transformed into a motion of no confidence in himself 
For once I find myself in complete accord with a leader writer. The Senate, as I have said, has been subjected to a most extraordinary statement. I think  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Wright  have traversed the documents so meticulously and so carefully that it is not necessary for succeeding speakers to go through the same ritual. I think it should be made clear that nobody on this side of the chamber denies that there are now, and have been, some Croatian terrorist activities in this country, but that we believe that the allegation we have to meet that  Senator Greenwood  was soft on them - that is a free translation of it - is completely unfounded and that it has been demolished by the events in this chamber of the last day or so. I think that the speech made yesterday by  Senator Greenwood  was probably one of the finest made since the trial of Warren Hastings. The present Attorney-General came into the Senate waving tons of documents which were largely not completely irrelevant. I would not be a bit surprised if the Attorney-General decided that he should resign, and that is probably the course which an honourable Minister would take in the circumstances. 
I want to say a word or two about some of the statements made by  Senator Cavanagh,  particularly in regard to Marincic, in relation to whom  Senator Cavanagh  directed his remarks in the last 20 minutes of his speech. It is true that Marincic was a violent character. He did go abroad; he did come back. He was convicted of an offence in respect of firearms and he was sentenced to 9 months gaol by the court. 
 No, not Marincic; I did not say that about him. I will get around to double agents in a few minutes, but I want to deal with this character first. He was sentenced to 9 months gaol. As  Senator Cavanagh  must know, the Act provides that a migrant cannot be deported for a criminal offence unless the sentence is for 12 months. That is why Marincic went to gaol and was not deported. In this connection it is extremely interesting to note that the Government senators concede that the Yugoslav Government, whose representative it was feting here a fortnight or 3 weeks ago, deals with its political opponents by shooting them. The tender solicitude which honourable senators opposite display towards that type of junta certainly makes us wonder. 
I will deal with that now. We will find out who invited the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia to Australia. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order!  Senator Hannan,  will you address the Chair? 
 Mr Deputy President.  1 will deal with the question of who invited the ex-head of the secret police in Bosnia and Herzegovina to visit Australia. It is true that when a member of the previous Government was visiting Yugoslavia he suggested: 'You ought to come out and see us some time'. 
Well, that sort of thing. There was nothing specific, nothing definite. No specific invitation was extended to him, but when the present lot came to power they could not get around to dealing with communist countries quickly enough. They wanted to get old Burchett on the road again and writing for them. They whipped up to Hanoi; they rushed over to East Germany. They will be dealing with Sihanouk and North Korea next before we know where we are. 
 The. honourable senator asked me to tell him how the invitation came about. The present lot who are in Government put through the formal, specific details of the invitation to Bijedic. That is incontrovertible.  Senator Cavanagh  said in a rather melodramatic fashion that Croatians can now live in Australia with decency and with peace. I presume he was referring to the Gestapo-like raids which took place around Canberra and Melbourne a week or 10 days ago. In at least 2 cases the police were accompanied by a member of the Yugoslav secret police. It is a national disgrace that a government should sink into the gutter by using the secret police of a communist country to visit Australian homes in the dead of night. 
 Yes, 1 have it here. Does the honourable senator want to see it? 
Yes, I will table it at the end of my speech,  Mr Deputy President. 
 It is sworn, yes. 
The names will be on the documents. The (first one is Franjo Till and the other is a woman,  Mrs Djerke.  However, I will table those documents. Only in 2 cases do I suggest that probably the Yugoslav secret police were involved. 
 Oh no, I said that it was in only 2 cases. 1 said that the secret police were involved in 2 cases and they were not involved in another 2. So 1 will include those 4 cases. I would have thought that one such case would have been one too many in a country which prides itself on its democratic institutions. At least, it did so until this present lot came to power. 1 want to make a reference also to the photographs of the; armed men, these dangerous characters. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
 Before the luncheon adjournment I was dealing with some matters which were raised by  Senator Murphy's  original statement and by  Senator Geenwood's  reply to it. A great deal of nonsense has been spoken by honourable senators on the Government side about an alleged training camp at Wodonga. The training camp at Wodonga was turned from a holiday camp, at which a number of men joined with units of the Citizen Military Forces to have photogaphs taken, into a real cloak and dagger type of preparation for incursions into Yugoslavia, lt is, of course, drivelling nonsense, and in support of that I would quote from a reply which  Senator Greenwood  gave to the Senate about September last year. Talking about these camps, he said: 
I can emphatically deny the suggestion that there was a training camp for terrorist purposes at Wodonga in 1963. lt is a canard, which has been raised time and time again. Tt has been denied authoritatively time and time again. If people who want to make a case can rely only upon something which has been demonstrated to be untrue on so many occasions, it illustrates the paucity of the material that they have for the accusation which they are making. 
Then, omitting portion of the then AttorneyGeneral's reply, he went on to say: 
The full facts have been given, as I have said, time and time again. What happened was that a group of Croatians - about 100 of them - had a recreational camp. They went there without weapons and with no army training or anything of that character. They were visited by a Citizen Military Forces unit and they asked whether they could have their photographs taken with the CMF personnel and with certain of the tanks. 
This dreadful camp was so secret that the men involved actually circulated these photographs of the so-called secret camp. The then Attorney-General went on: 
The photographs were taken - that was verified by the Commander of the CMF unit who gave the facts which  I  am relating to the Senate- and if that is to be built up as a case against the Croatian community and if it is a case which is to be the basis of an allegation of terrorist activity in this country, then  I  think that the people who make those accusations must first overcome the facts which  I  have stated. 
I do not think it is necessary to waste more time on the nonsense about training camps. One thing which honourable senators opposite fail to appreciate when they talk about right wing Croatians is that, speaking politically, most Croatians are left of centre. Most of them in their politics follow what might loosely be called a social democratic line of philosophy. Most of the Croats in this country are followers of what was originally the Peasant Party led by Stefan Radic who was assassinated by a Serb in the actual chamber of the Parliament in 1928. 
One matter which has been raised by honourable senators of the Government relates to the people who were arrested in Sydney at the weekend. Honourable senators opposite have claimed that these men were very hostile to Tito's Yugoslavia, lt seems to me to be a strange criticism of Croatian nationalists when even the Croatian Communist Party is at daggers drawn with Tito. At the present time Tito is having an enormous struggle subjugating not Croatian nationalists but the Croatian Communist Party. This is a matter which our friends on the Government side seem to overlook.  I  will not go into details what happened after the war, but it will be recalled that the Croatian army sided with the Axis powers, and that after their defeat it surrendered about 300,000 men to the British Army at Beiberg in the south of Austria. The Army contained normal units of the Domobran and 60,000 to 70,000 men of the Ustasha corps. Despite the despicable activities of some members of the Ustasha organisation the word 'ustasha' simply means 'insurgent'. The British - poor, well-meaning souls - did not know that Tito did not play cricket and did not play by any other rules either. So when the disarmed Croatian army was handed over to the tender mercies of Tito, it was slaught ered, lock, stock and barrel, except for those fortunate enough to escape to Italian territory. 
The Yugoslav Prime Minister,  Mr Bijedic,  who was recently honoured as a guest at  Mr Whitlam's  lodge, had some part in the ultimate suppression of the Croatian nationalist movement, although he is himself, I understand, a Slovene. Most of the Croatians here, about 185,000, came to this country to get away from communist terrorism and it is not surprising that they do not regard the dictator Tito as a favourite pin-up boy. As to  Senator Wheeldon's  statement that Tito is a Croat, that is true - but it is a long time since he has regarded himself as a Croat. He has set up his headquarters in Belgrade and at present the big brawl inside Yugoslavia is the struggle between Tito's central Communist Party in Belgrade and the Croatian Communist Party and the Communist Parties of some of the smaller republics. 
One of the interesting aspects of the development of communist philosophy is that after some years the Communist party - at least in Croatia - has taken on, to some extent, the garb almost of a national party rather than a communist party. This has been demonstrated to the extent that when the leaders of the Communist Party in that country, Tripalo, Dabcevic-Kucar and Pirker felt thai Croatia was being unfairly treated in 1972 they were prepared to stand up and fight against Tito - and subsequently of course they lost their jobs. 
Although  Senator Murphy  has been given every opportunity to answer, he has skated away from the vexed questions of the activities of the Yugoslav secret police in Australia. Does anyone doubt that these people are operating here? Last week a gentleman who runs a travel agency in Melbourne called to see me. He produced 2 newspapers, both published in Belgrade, and gave me translations of articles in one of the Belgrade newspapers - which also circulates in Melbourne - which alleged that through his travel agency he was arranging for the transport and the provisioning of terrorists on their way to Yugoslavia. He said that as a result his business had dropped by half and that very many people would have nothing to do with him. He has informed me of this and he. is prepared to swear it that the allegations are entirely and utterly untrue. 
Here I should like to quote from a speech made in this Parliament and to which I referred some time ago. A speech was made by President Tito on television at Sarajevo on 21st September 1972. It should be remembered that Tito, like Hitler and Stalin, means to carry out his threats. 
I guess he means to carry out his threats too. What has that to do with it? I go back to the dictator Tito. He said: 
We would have no trouble with Croats in Yugoslavia if they were not stirred up and helped by the Government in Australia. But we will fix them. We have already sent agents of our secret police to hunt them down. 
Mark that,  Mr Attorney-General. His  speech went on: 
We will send more agents to Australia. 
Mark that,  Mr Attorney-General.  He went on: 
We will crush these people. We will destory them root and branch. 
If the Attorney-General was serious, if he had a real interest in the suppression of terror, he would direct some of his attention towards the UDBA and to the undoubted activities of these communist thugs who are operating in our country. We have in the past few days witnessed a degrading and disquieting spectacle of men being tried by the Parliament, men who have no opportunity to reply and against whom nothing has been alleged but smear and humbug. In the old days, members of Parliament were subject to impeachment. I speak about one man. He is not well known to me. But merely that a great deal of smear and garbage has been heaped upon him by honourable senators opposite is no reason why I will not refer to his name. I do not know whether the man to whom I refer is honest or dishonest. I do not know whether he was accurately described by the present Attorney-General. But having regard to some of the things that the Attorney-General said, I am inclined to doubt him. But I know that this man has been savagely traduced in the Parliament and without comment, without necessarily believing or disbelieving it, I propose to quote from an affidavit by a man known to  Senator Mulvihill  as Srecko Rover made on 4th September 1970. He says: 
Superintendent Milte slammed the door of my office shut and demanded that 1 should sit down. 
I interpolate here to say that  Mr Milte,  I understand, is now one of the whiz kids of the present Attorney-General in these matters. He continues:  i remained standing and Superintendent Milte, looking extremely angry seized my left arm and said words to the effect: 'When will all this end?' 'When will you stop your acts of terror and bombing. We have information, that you are behind ail these activities. We have information about all Croatian activities. We have been told that you are closely associated with Reverend Kasic and other Croatian leaders. In fact you are  the leader.  This week a new Yugoslav consulate has been opened in Melbourne. We warn you,  Mr Rover,  if anything happens to  Mr Rukavina  - 
That gentleman,  Mr President,  is the consulategeneral in Melbourne who was generally believed to be a member of the UDBA. I continue reading: 
We warn you,  Mr Rover,  if anything happens to  Mr Rukavina  or any member of Yugoslav mission here, there is not much chance of you slaying alive'. I interrupted Superintendent Milte-- 
I am letting the words speak for themselves. I do not know whether the man is telling the truth. But he said this under oath which is more than  Senator Murphy  has done. He continues: 
I interrupted Superintendent Milte saying words to the effect that to me it looked as if he had come all the way to Melbourne with 2 officers just for the purpose of threatening me on the basis of information made by and given to him by the Yugoslav Consulate. Superintendent Milte replied with words to the effect 'Never mind from whom or how we get our information. We know many things. When I think of that UDBA officer I don't think you have very long to live'. 
Can anyone doubt that the Yugoslav secret police are operating in this country? 
 Senator Poyser  says nonsense'. At least here we have something sworn on oath instead of smear and allegations that have come from honourable senators opposite. 
I do not quote only half the document as the Attorney-General does. I quote those parts of the document which it may be said are against my argument. I quote the whole of it. I am not dishonest. On 13th April 1970 ASIO submitted an open report to  Senator Greenwood  containing some remarkable statements. It is almost inconceivable that a man actuated by justice, rectitude, honesty, integrity, probity and all the other qualities that should be the 
Hallmark  of the Attorney-General could overlook this report when putting down his dump of documents in the Senate. Actually, the document was analysed rather well by the Melbourne 'Observer' last weekend. I quote- 
1 hope that no one suggests that the Melbourne 'Observer' is in the pocket of the Liberal Party. 
I will take issue with the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  on this matter on another occasion. An article on page 5 of the Melbourne 'Observer' of 1st April 1973 states: 
In fact, it is the opinion of ASIO that most of the bomb incidents in Australia are the work of cranks or the Yugoslav secret police trying to build up Australian hysteria against Croatian nationalists. 
In other words, what the 'Observer' is putting forward is that we have a proper Reichstag fire trial job in our midst. If we listen to the nonsense that is spoken from honourable senators opposite we would never have any opportunity to uncover it. If ever there was a Reichstag fire trial job, this is it. I return to quote from the Melbourne 'Observer': 
The report, goes on to point out that the attacks around the world have been directed as much against Croatian nationalists as against the Yugoslav Government property. This implies that the UDBA or Yugoslav Secret Police agents may be involved, lt is considered notable that in the many bomb incidents in Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra at Yugoslav consulates and embassies there have never been any deaths or injuries of Yugoslav Government personnel or their families. lt is likely, then, that these bomb incidents have been largely 'manufactured' incidents staged from within the Yugoslav consulates with the intention of putting strong public pressure on Croatian nationalists planning anti-Yugoslav Government action in Europe. 
Later in the same report, the 'Observer' states: 
The ASIO report refers to a a 'Fascist conspiracy theory' which  leftwingers  such as  Senator Lionel  Murphy have been over many years sedulously cultivating about Croatian nationalists. 
This is a report in the Melbourne 'Observer' analysing the pantomime that was put before the Senate last week. The report continues: 
The danger for the (Croats in Australia) stems largely from the fact that elements in the Yugoslav community, working through the media, and also through receptive sections of certain Australian political organisations- 
Honourable senators would not have to be Mandrake to work out that one -  and university student publications and other radical channels, appear determined to promote a Fascist conspiracy theory wherein the wartime Ustasha organisation in Yugoslavia is bluntly asserted to be the dominant force in the Croatian nationalist movement in Australia. 
Finally, the newspaper article states - I hope that honourable senators opposite will listen to and acknowledge this: 
This ASIO report, which so completely undermines the Government's claims about Croatian violence in Australia, is likely to be tabled in the Senate next week. 
It was an open report. 
That is right. The newspaper was inaccurate in that respect, at all events. 
 I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Attorney-General and the principal constitutional law officer of the Commonwealth. 1 ask the Minister whether his attention has been drawn to a report in this morning's 'Canberra Times' reporting the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  as follows: 
No vote, no resolution in any place other than this House- 
Meaning the House of Representatives -  has any effect whatsoever as to the fate of governments. .  . 
Will the Minister ascertain whether the Prime Minister has been correctly reported? If so, will he arrange to let the Prime Minister have a copy of the Australian Constitution? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral given urgent attention to the matter of Ivan Mudrinic to whom he referred recently by inference as a suspected Croatian terrorist? In view of the photograph, which I gave his office, from a Yugoslav magazine dated 8th December 1972, which shows Ivan Mudrinic relaxing in Tito's Belgrade, does not the Minister now agree with the theory of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation that Mudrinic is certainly not a Croatian terrorist but is almost certainly a Yugoslav communist agent or an agent provocateur? 
Having regard to the Attorney-General's answer to  Senator Greenwood,  I now ask the Attorney-General whether he suggests that the recent raids on homes were conducted under the dried fruits legislation? Does he approve of midnight searches, without warrants, of Australian homes? 
Yes, it did. Does the Minister recall that it is now more than 2 weeks since I asked him to investigate the midnight raid - to be precise, it was at 3.35 a.m. - by Commonwealth Police without a search warrant, and probably accompanied by a member of the Yugoslav secret police, upon the home of Franjo Till of Narrabundah? I ask the Minister why he has presented no report to the Senate following my question more than 2 weeks ago, as all Australians, not only the migrant community, are concerned about this type of activity? 
I address a question to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is this present Government genuinely opposed to all forms of racism? Did it before the Parliament met exclude or restrict 19 girl visitors who were members of a religious organisation on their way to New Zealand on the ground that they were born in Rhodesia? If the Government is sincere, can the Minister explain why it is still giving financial assistance to the barbarous regime of  President  Amin in Uganda and why it is spending $30,000 in training Ugandan teachers in this country? 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. I refer to the question asked by  Senator Marriott  and the Ministers answer in which he indicated that on Monday next he will be discussing this matter of political broadcasts. Will the Minister also look at the question of repealing that section of the Broadcasting and Television Act which was passed by the last Labor Government and which restricts the presentation of political matter in dramatic form? 
I ask a question of the Minister Assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Australian Ambassador in Yugoslavia or any of his officers or any official acting on behalf of the Australian Government visited or sought to visit the Australian citizen Ludvig Pavolovic who is reported to be serving a long gaol sentence for alleged offences similar to those for which the 3 men were executed? If no such visit has been made, why not? 
Does the AttorneyGeneral recall that about a month or 6 weeks ago I asked him for a report on the midnight raid, without warrant, on the Canberra home of a Croatian pensioner, one Franjo Till? The Minister will recall saying that he had an answer to my question. It is possible that 1 have missed seeing it in Hansard, but I have not been able to trace it. I ask the Minister whether I may have an answer as soon as possible to this very serious inquiry because on the surface it would appear that this man has suffered a grevious wrong. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether it is a fact that on 7th April last he held a meeting with about 7 people whom his Press release described as representative Croatian origin Australians. Is it a fact that the same Press release also stated that these people supported the Attorney-General and the Government in their efforts to stamp out the terrorism and violence of a small minority? I ask the Attorney-General: What Croatian organisations in fact were represented by these people? Is he aware that most of the organisations represented were precisely those which he has alleged in this Senate were devoted to terrorism and violence? Is it not a fact that 2 of the people present, Drago  Bratusha  and Ivan  Budkovic,  were actually named by the Attorney-General in his documents dealing with alleged terrorism? Is it not a fact that the said Drago  Brutusha  is a member of HOP and a former member of Ustasha, and that Ivan Budkovic is alleged to be a former member of the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood and was refused naturalisation by the previous Government? Having named these men as ferocious terrorists, what is the Attorney-General's excuse for consorting with them? 
I move: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until tomorrow at 10.55 a.m. for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency. 
I do so for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency, namely: 
The welcome and support for delegations from North Vietnam and the revolutionary Vietcong given by  Dr Cairns,  Minister for Overseas Trade and Secondary Industry in the Whitlam Government and the recognition and condonation thereby given by the Whitlam Government to the North Vietnam aggression and Vietcong terrorism. 
This motion cries out for support from all thinking Australians. Last Wednesday was Anzac Day, a day set apart as a national holiday because it is a day of remembrance for those devoted servicemen and women who gave their lives in 2 world wars, in Korea, and lastly in Vietnam. Despite all the affected cynicism and the trendy media approach to rubbish our traditions, it is a day held in very great veneration by the great bulk of this nation. It therefore seems incredible to us that on the very next day the Whitlam Government, acting through the medium of its third most senior Minister,  Dr Cairns,  should entertain 6 members of the Vietcong and members from North Vietnam in the Sydney Town Hall - the enemy against whom our troops were so recently engaged and against whom our allies are still engaged. I am completely unimpressed by the sophistry that  Dr Cairns  is not committing the Government - that he is speaking in some vague form of private capacity - and I am unimpressed by the allegation that the Congress for International Peace and Disarmament is the sponsoring body, since that is a communist front outfit anyhow. By saying nothing  Mr Whitlam  is condoning the action of his Minister, who is only 2 heartbeats from becoming Prime Minister and who was actually Acting Prime Minister for 9 hours recently. 
I have here,  Mr Deputy President,  for your enjoyment perhaps one of the most disgraceful photographs that I have ever seen in political life in this country. It is a photograph of  Dr Cairns  flanked by 6 communist visitors from North Vietnam at the Sydney Town Hall. I do not know whether honourable senators opposite want it to be tabled; I am willing to do so if they wish. In the plainest possible terms this is an approval by this Government of naked and unprovoked aggression. There is supposed to have been a peace settlement in Vietnam, but the very people whose representatives are shown discussing with  Dr Cairns  are still continuing the aggression they began 19 years ago. This morning the United States Government announced that it would have to resume hostilities if the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese did not cease their breaches of the ceasefire agreement. Dennis Warner in this morning's 'Sydney Morning Herald' - perhaps he is our most reliable commentator on foreign affairs - says that  Dr Henry  Kissinger's bitter denunciation of North Vietnam for having systematically and cynically violated all the major pledges on the Vietnam ceasefire is more than justified by the latest developments in Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos. Yet these people from the North, the Vietcong, are honoured guests in this country at the direct, indirect or oblique invitation of the Whitlam Government. 
In this Senate we have heard a lot about terrorism of recent times. Much of what has been said has been pretty indefinite and nobody has been very certain as to who produced the actions responsible for the allegations. There is no doubt whatever about the terror of the Vietcong, because they claim and assert that terror is a political weapon in the armory of the Vietcong. They murder village officials, terrorise all those people opposed to them, and they " actually glory in their barbarity. We have heard a great deal in this Senate chamber over the years about the massacre of My Lai in' 1967 in which 110 civilians "were massacred by American soldiers: Very rightly the Americans prosecuted their officers and those concerned. But a year later there was another massacre at My Lai, and this time the 46th Regiment of the Vietcong was responsible. It massacred 146 civilians, but we did not hear a word of protest from honourable senators opposite. Their withers were hot wrung. Their indignation is so selective' that when the barbarity and terrorism of the Vietcong is. at stake what we hear from them is a crashing silence. 
It is unnecessary to traverse the horrors of the temporary occupation by the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese of. the.. imperial city of Hue during the so-called Tet offensive in 1968 when about 4,50,0 civilians were, murdered, .many of them being buried alive. There was no . protest then from  Dr J.  F. Cairns; np protest from  Mr Uren;  no protest from  Mr Clyde  Cameron; not even a protest from  Mr Whitlam,  the white knight. 
The Government's approval of the visit of the Vietcong and the northerners fits into a pattern. In every conceivable way this Government has shown its support for the communist side in Indo-China. It has withdrawn our medical : teams from Vietnam despite all the claptrap about civil aid and not military aid. It has withdrawn civil ,aid from South Vietnam altogether. The DC3 aircraft are not allowed to go to Cambodia. The Government has promised $78m in civil aid reconstruction to the North, but I know of no figure which I can quote in relation to aid which actually has been promised to the South. The Government has excluded Cambodian officers from training here. Short of sending the Royal Australian Air Force oh a bombing mission over South Vietnam, there does not seem to be much else that the Government could have done to destroy the cause of our allies in that country. ' 
The visit of these people to Australia is a symptom of a disease. It is no use the Prime Minister (Mr Whitlam) trying to unload all the blame on  Dr J.  F. Cairns for this gaffe because, it is as. much his fault. It is as a result of bis administration or lack of it. He cannot unload the responsibility for this insult to our servicemen and women because it would be grossly unfair to do so. I think even the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  would agree with me that the way in which the Prime Minister unloaded all the blame for the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the Croatian bungle on him yesterday was grossly unfair and politically dishonest. I am not suggesting that the AttorneyGeneral did not add his meed of nonsense to that imbroglio.  Mr Whitlam  claims to be responsible for foreign policy, if any. He claims that we now have an independent foreign policy. Independent of whom? Certainly it is not independent as far as communist powers are concerned. He has been oleaginously servile whenever a matter concerning a communist power has been at issue. Is it necessary to list examples? The list includes the crawl to Red China, the Professor Teng case, the Taiwan basketball team case, the Taiwan ping pong team case, the rush to East Germany, the rush to Hanoi, the promise to recognise the Vietcong, and so on ad infinitum. I think that we can forget the cynical action in recognising the Vatican because 1 have no doubt that  Mr Whitlam,  like Henry of Navarre, believes that Canberra is worth a mass. 
Sure, we have been independent in a sense. We have insulted the British. Certainly, we have grossly offended the Americans. We have annoyed Thailand. We have humbugged Malaysia. True, they are not communist countries. As a matter of fact, it is very difficult to find one respectable friend we have left in the whole wide world. As far as I know - I am only speaking from memory - no major insult has been offered to Canada. But I have no doubt that this lot will get around to it. 
It is no wonder that the American President, according to the 'Australian Financial Review' refused on 2 occasions to receive this upstart. It is no wonder that the Thais told the Australian Prime Minister - and here I quote because I would not use this language myself - to mind his own 'bloody business'. That is what our Asian friends think of our new independent foreign policy. Independent of whom? Look how independent we really are. We propose to line up with the Third World countries in Algiers. Australia is to be represented there with, what I understand is called, observer status. 
As honourable senators will know, a conference of Third World or non-aligned countries usually degenerates into a Yankee bashing session. There is nothing else to talk about. What happens? What is the attitude of most of these countries? I have heard the representatives of two of them talking at the United Nations. This was when I was accompanied by my friend,  Senator O'Byrne.  One of these gentlemen from the Third World trounced the Americans verbally as much as he could. He was then overtaken by the course of events as an earthquake occurred in his country. To whom did this same gentleman rush screaming for aid? He was back pleading with the Americans to pull his country out of the mire. This is precisely the attitude of so many countries of the Third World to which this crazy Government wishes to annexe this nation. This Government says that it wishes to remove ANZUS as a military alliance. I wonder whether the Government would like to fight an election on that issue? The Prime Minister has no mandate to destroy ANZUS simply because the left wing and the Federal Executive of his Party tell him that that is what they want. 
I return now to the visitors, the people who by implication must be regarded as  Mr Whitlam's  guests in this country. I cannot pronounce their names; I will not attempt to do so. I refer to the editorial in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of Saturday, 28th April, which states in part: 
For these men, praised by an Australian Cabinet Minister as the heroic defenders of a just cause brutally assailed by Australians and their allies, are not only representatives of those responsible for shooting down Australian soldiers. They are also representatives of those still prosecuting a ruthless war of aggression in Cambodia. 
If honourable senators opposite do not believe that, they should ask the Honourable Gordon Bryant; he will enlighten them. The editorial continues: 
They are representatives of those who have demonstrated that to them murder, torture, intimidation and extortion are ordinary instruments of policy. These are men with bloody hands. 
Yet these are the men to whom the Federal Government 
This ersatz Federal Government -   . . gives an honoured welcome and gives, too,  a  platform in Australia to preach their totalitarian doctrines, spout their propaganda and traduce Australia's allies. These are our new friends in Asia. 
My quotation from editorial concludes: 'These are our new friends in Asia'. The visit is a disgraceful one, but it fits in with the antiAmericanism which was so rampant in this country in early January. In a successful attempt to force the aggressors - North Vietnam - to the conference table,  President  Nixon enlarged the bombing area in North Vietnam. Does anybody think that the shabby peace, for what it is worth, would have been negotiated if it had not been for that bombing? But on that occasion there were vigorous outbursts by  Mr Clyde  Cameron,  Mr Uren  and  Dr J.  F. Cairns.  Dr J.  F. Cairns said that it was the most dreadful bombing in all history. What drivelling nonsense that is. Has he ever heard of Hiroshima, Nagasaki, the British raid on Dresden and the raid on Cologne? There are innumerable places where far more people were killed. 
I do not approve the actual killing of civilians if it can be avoided, but the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese have a habit of putting these people in the centre of military objectives. Even on communist figures, the fatalities numbered 2,300. If that is what these 3 distinguished Ministers think is the worst bombing episode in history, they should look at some of the newspaper files of recent times. This Government has been heard in support of naked aggression and terrorism if they are by a dictatorship of the left. My view is that it is a disgrace to the memory of Anzac that the North Vietnamese representatives should come to Australia on the day after Anzac Day. It is a strange thing that our troops fought alongside the troops of  President  Thieu in South Vietnam, but  Mr Barnard  has said that he will not have Thieu here because that might divide the community. What he means is that his left wing will not allow him to have Thieu here. Is it not extraordinary that a man with whom we are allied is not allowed into the country but 6 representatives of the enemy who are still, killing our allies are here as welcomed guests of the thing that passes in this country for a government? 
The significant factor emerging from all this is the arrogance of this minority Government in rejecting so many of our former friends. The gesture to the Third World is significant. A discussion on this matter usually degenerates into an exercise in Yankee criticism or in abusing the Americans. The ALP left wants us to withdraw from all military treaties and become neutral - meaning, of course, neutral in favour of left wing outfits. It is not surprising that when Yugoslav's Bijedic was here recently - some mention has been made. in . the .chamber from time to time of his visit - his Foreign Affairs Minister, aman called Petrie, said that Yugoslavia wanted to see . Australia non-aligned and a member of the Third World. It is no wonder that Yugoslavia wants us to join the Third World alliance. What hope would there be for the ANZUS Pact in such circumstances? The left wants to destroy the most valuable piece of paper in the Commonwealth^- the ANZUS Pact. I think it must now be generally accepted that this Government is so oleaginously adulatory of left totalitarianism that it is a disaster, and the sooner that it is removed the better. 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to the two ridiculous but at the same time disturbing reports published in the Melbourne 'Truth' for 21st and 28th April concerning the discovery of an alleged Ukrainian terrorist training camp in the dark forests of the Acheron River district in Victoria? Is the Minister aware that these reports allege that the training camp is run by the secret Ukrainian insurgent army which is said to be dedicated to the violent overthrow of the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, which I understand this Government regards as being very friendly with Australia and with which we have full diplomatic relations? Is the Minister aware that the so-called terrorist training camp is about as militarist as a boy scout jamboree and in fact is run by a Ukrainian boy scout movement? Is the Minister aware that these absurd newspaper stories which have been faithfully followed up by the television services of the Australian Broadcasting Commission have caused grave disquiet and unease among those excellent migrants, the Ukrainians? Is he aware also that the allegations follow the malicious pattern which has been used against the Croatians? Will the Minister check on the authenticity of these reports? Because of the consternation caused by recent raids on migrant homes, will the Minister give an assurance that there will be no similar raids on the homes of Ukrainians in Australia? Will the Minister issue a suitable statement to allay the fears of the migrant population in general and the Ukrainians in particular? 
I ask the Special Minister of State: Is it not a fact that this Government was informed by the Yugoslav Government that the execution of 3 Australians of Croatian origin took place on 17th March? I have here a statutory declaration translating a respectable American Croatian newspaper 'Morning Star' which, giving an eye witness account, states that such executions took place on 10th April which is Croatia's national day. If this is true does not this date indicate that the Attorney-General knew of the executions before they took place? Although I believe it is unfair and unjust for the Prime Minister to unload all the blame on to his poor unfortunate Attorney-General - 
Does the AttorneyGeneral recall that last Wednesday in the Senate he told me that the Commonwealth Police had called at the home of Franjo Till in the early hours of 18th March without search warrants because they wished to establish whether one Ivan Pavlovic was inside the house? Does the Minister know that when Ivan Pavlovic drove from Melbourne on 17th March the police intercepted and searched him and his car on the environs of Canberra, and that they took his name and that he was photographed by the Press near police officers during the raid on the Croatian Club in Turner on the same night? Does the Minister know that the police had ample opportunity to arrest him, if they wished, on a number of occasions and that it was utterly unnecessary to raid Till's house? Can the Minister confirm Pavlovic's statutory declaration that the only evidence of his alleged threat to kill Bijedic were two anonymous calls? As Pavlovic's statutory declaration, which I have here, categorically denies the alleged threat against Bijedic or anybody else, will the Minister re-check the facts of his answer which seem completely erroneous? If I am correct, will he, as an honourable gentleman and as the first law officer of this country, publicly withdraw his unfounded allegation which has seriously injured Pavlovic in his employment as a painter. 
I ask the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether his attention has been drawn to a report in today's Press that the Labor Party Prime Minister of New Zealand,  Mr Kirk,  intervened with a strongly worded speech at a party conference to kill proposals for recognising Hanoi and the Vietcong and for withdrawing recognition of Saigon. Is the Minister aware that the Labor Party Prime Minister of New Zealand also said that his country would not recognise North Vietnam until the ceasefire agreement was properly observed by the North? Is the Minister further aware that the New Zealand Labor Party Conference also rejected demands for withdrawal from overseas alliances,  including SEATO, ANZUS, ASPAC and the Five-Power defence pact? Finally, will the Minister use his good offices to obtain 2 copies of  Mr Kirk's  speech, one for myself and one for  Mr Whitlam? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it not a fact that last Wednesday evening in this Parliament House 7 Ministers of the Federal Government, including the Minister for Overseas Trade, and a group of Australian Labor Party backbenchers entertained at dinner 6 delegates of the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese? 
I direct my question to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Department of Foreign Affairs drawn the attention of the Government to the edition of 23rd April of the German left wing magazine 'Der Spiegel', at pages 104 to 106? I have a copy here for the Minister if ' the Department has not done so. Does the Minister know that this article deals with the execution of 3 Australians in Yugoslavia? Will the Government urgently Investigate the opinion of  Mrs Keskic,  wife of one of the 3 executed Australians who is now living in Strasburg, who is reported by 'Der Spiegel' as having said that her husband in fact was not executed on 17th March as alleged but possibly was still alive? Although this theory is completely contrary to other evidence which I have and which the Government has, which suggests that 10th April was the actual execution date, because of the remote possibility of saving the lives of innocent men will the Government take immediate action to check the facts of the execution, the Yugoslav Government already having given 3 different dates of execution or death? 
1 direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to this morning's Press announcement of a new wheat stabilisation scheme. Will the Minister consider an increase in the first advance of $1.10 which amount I concede- 
 I know that $1.10 ls mentioned. As far as I know the amount of $1.20 has not yet been paid. wm the Minister see what can be done to speed up the second and final payments due to wheat growers under the stabilisation scheme as great numbers of them have been suffering hardship because of the long delay in getting final payments? In saying that I do not place all the blame for these delays at the door of the Minister. 
Has the attention of the Acting Leader of the Government been drawn to this morning's Press report that the Australian case against French nuclear testing being heard at 'the Hague may take up to 12 months to be heard? Does this mean that the Senate may be deprived of the inspiration of  Senator Murphy  over this inordinately long period? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that  Sir Philip  Baxter was  Chairman  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission For 15 years from 1957 to 1972? Having indicated that I oppose French nuclear testing if health dangers are involved, I ask: Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article by  Sir Philip  in this morning's 'Sydney Morning Herald' which states inter alia that any person who moves his home from Sydney to Canberra is deliberately subjecting himself and his family to a permanently increased radiation dose very similar to that from the French tests because Canberra is 1,900 feet above sea level? Is this the health threat which threatens to launch a naval vessel, and is this the health threat which has deprived the Senate, at least temporarily, of the benefit of Senator's Murphy's presence? Will the Government issue a statement warning all intending residents of Canberra of this health hazard? Will the Government cease the practice of transferring government departments to this hostile environment or at least pay danger money if it does not? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Science. Is it not a fact that the Atomic Test Safety Committee with Professor  Sir Ernest  Titterton and the National Radiation Advisory Committee with  Sir Philip  Baxter have been scrapped recently by the Whitlam Government? ls it not a fact that both these Committees gave scientific advice to the Government in respect of French nuclear testing which did not fit in with the Government's political tenets? Is it not a fact that  Sir Ernest  Titterton has also been sacked from his position as head of the Australian National University Research School of Physical Sciences? Is it not a fact that  Sir Philip  Baxter and  Sir Ernest  Titterton are two of Australia's outstanding scientists? Will the Minister deny the fact that no Australian scientist can have security of tenure under this Government unless he feeds it scientific advice which is politically acceptable? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the 
Treasurer. Is the Minister aware that shareholders in Australian banks with British domiciles at present are adversely affected as to approximately 30 per cent of their dividends by current British legislation aimed at inflation? Will the Minister investigate this position and, if what I say is so, will he take appropriate action to speed up the renegotiation of the long standing double taxation agreement between Australia and Great Britain? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property. Having regard to recent Press statements by  Mr Whitlam  on the Victorian Liberal landslide, I ask- 
Government senators - Ha, ha! 
Does anyone want to challenge that? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Perhaps it should be directed to  Senator Wriedt.  Does the Minister recall his answering a question asked by me a few weeks back to the effect that when the new round of international trade and tariff talks begins in about September 1973 the question of the 25ic per lb duty on greasy wool entering the United States could possibly be taken up with that country? I now ask the Minister: As time is running on can he give a categorical assurance that this matter will in fact be raised with the United States at these talks in an attempt to lift or reduce this extremely heavy impost? 
In asking a question of the Attorney-General 1 refer him to an earlier question asked by  Senator O'Byrne.  ls it intended, in the course of the trade practices Bill which the Attorney-General proposes to introduce, to revive the old Australian Industries Preservation Act which, I understand, was introduced, by that great liberal, Alfred Deakin? If not, is any variation intended in the old Deakin Act which was based - I think from recollection - on the old Sherman anti-trust legislation? 
I think that this Prices Justification Bill is proof that the Australian Labor Party leaders resemble the Bourbons in the sense that they learn nothing and they forget nothing. They have produced in this legislation before the Senate what must be regarded as an economic fizzer. Perhaps one of the most damning criticisms of the whole legislation is the fact that although Opposition  speaker  after Opposition  speaker  has pointed out the defects in the legislation, not one single solitary Government senator has risen in his place to justify this piece of Labor Party folly. 
I think that they realise the Bill is incapable of being defended on logical grounds. The measure is clumsy, vague and unworkable. It is true that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  mentioned the matter on a number of occasions during the Federal election campaign and it is reasonable to assume that the Australian Labor Party has a mandate to bring in a Bill called the Prices Justification Bill. But details were not given to the people. We had no idea - to use the words of  Senator Guilfoyle  - that this economic monster would be created. The Opposition does not intend to oppose the legislation. We believe that it is unworkable. If we tried to amend it and put it into sane form it would mean that the Bill would have to be withdrawn and redrafted. It is such a mish-mash - I understand that that is the in word at the moment when one wants to speak about a mess - although that description was applied quite unwarrantedly by the Prime Minister to members of the Opposition in this chamber. I always like to give people the benefit of the doubt, although some governments make it very hard, and I like to think that the Government is genuinely concerned about controlling one of the greatest problems which the country faces at the moment, that is, roaring inflation. But if the Government is genuine and sincere it is difficult to understand why it has not attempted a freeze on prices and wages if the desirable end, controlling inflation, is to be brought about. 
Without going fully into the details I point out that the Bill simply states that any company of a particular type - that is one with a turnover of $20m or more a year - must give 21 days notice to the Tribunal of its intention to increase the prices of goods. If the Tribunal does not take objection to the proposed increase within 21 days the increase may go ahead. However, if the Tribunal decides that it will conduct an inquiry it has 3 months in which to conduct that inquiry and another fortnight in which to make its finding known. Let us take the Myer Emporium as an example. If it wants to increase the price of bobby pins by 2c it has to take an exercise in economic futility which may well last for 5 months. One of the more irritating - or perhaps 'sinister' is the proper word to use - aspects of such an exercise is that the Tribunal is able to inquire not only into the cost structure of the bobby pin market but also inquire into the grocery section of the merchant, and into the hardware and softwear sections. 
The Tribunal is entitled to go through all aspects of the company's books. It may even say: 'You are making a good profit on the grocery lines. I think you can carry this increased cost in regard to bobby pins'. Many cases of corporations are affected by the seasonal market. Let us take a classic example given in a newspaper a week or so ago - a motel belonging to a chain with an annual turnover of more than $20m. It serves bacon and eggs for breakfast. As the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  knows, the price of eggs is a variable factor. It can go up and down. It is a seasonal cost. The large motel must give the tribunal 21 days notice if lt wishes to increase the price of breakfast by a few cents. Smaller motels which are not plagued, shall I say, by a $20m a year turnover have no such restriction. There we have an unfair sense of competition. I think one only has to recite the circumstances to see what an absurd proposition is emerging. 
One of the more difficult aspects to understand is why the socialist approach always attacks inflation from the wrong end. It always attempts to control prices without attempting to control the structure which goes into prices, lt makes no attempt to control wages. lt makes no attempt to reduce prices by increasing productivity. The only real way to reduce prices in a free enterprise society - and we still have a chunk of free enterprise left in this society - is to offer genuine incentives and by an improvement in productivity. 1 am prepared to concede that price control can and will work in war time. This is a time when the community is prepared to surrender many of its rights and privileges and to put up with all sorts of difficulties in Order to defend the nation. But of course in war time everything is controlled - prices, wages and supply of materials. I think it is a mournful commentary that when  Mr Menzies  - as he then was - introduced the national security legislation at the time of the last war under which the price control ordinances were enacted, every member of the Labor Party voted against price control. 1 do not know what has come over the Labor Party in the interim. It is difficult to understand why it does not contemplate the price and wages freeze tried by what might be called conservative administrations in both the United States and Great Britain. It is my belief that the controllers of the giant unions who control this Government would not allow such a course. We have not forgotten the $25,000 bribe paid by the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union to the Prime Minister for the promise that there would be no sanctions in future industrial legislation and no prosecutions. We have to make this plain to the community. As I mentioned the only real control in a private enterprise  society is the reality  of competition. 
Professor John Jewkes is the Jeavons Professor of Economics at the Manchester University.  'His  classic 'Ordeal by Planning' described what happened when a socialist government in England attempted to turn that small country into a Utopia after the last war. He cited one example which I think disposes of the idea of planning without proper production. He said that the island of Great Britain was almost composed of coal and surrounded by fish and that it would require an organising genius to produce a shortage of both. Professor Jewkes says: Unfortunately in Great Britain we have this type of socialist genii in our midst'. While this Government bows down in servile prostration before the large unions - usually left dominated - and while it goes into the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Court ito obtain increased wages and to shorten hours, and while it thinks it can control inflation by directing its penal sanctions against 350 Australian companies, it is very difficult to give it the benefit of the doubt and to take it seriously. The increase in the cost of living in the last quarter under this Government was 2.1 per cent - the highest for 21 years. It does appear - since 1 cannot regard this present instrument as a valid weapon in the fight - that we will have raging inflation by the end of the year. The Government has brought in this toy cannon to deal with the monster. That is as sane as bringing in an arquebus to shoot down a B52 bomber. Honourable senators opposite would remember - probably many of them favourably - Professor Hans Arndt- 
 I thank  Senator Wheeldon  for correcting the christian name, but 1 am glad to know that he recognises the gentleman to whom I am referring. 
 I think the honourable senator will recall the description. Professor Arndt was the economic adviser to the Australian Labor Party. He is the economist who said a few years back that the Labor Party had had no progressive economic ideas for 25 years. Perhaps  Senator Wheeldon  might recall that Professor Arndt resigned from the Australian Labor Party over  Mr Whitlam's  genuflection to  Chairman  Mao when he visited Communist China. As I say, like the Bourbons, the Labor Party does not learn anything from history. Some time back I had some remarks to make to  Senator Poke,  but he is occupying the Chair at the moment so I do not wish to conduct a conversation with him about the last time we debated a form of price control in this chamber. Honourable senators will recall that at the turn of the 4th century the Roman Empire was in sore straits economically. The prices of silver, gold and corn were skyrocketing. 
 The empire was having difficulties with homosexuality at the time. I am speaking specifically in regard to the work of Emperor Diocletian in the year 301 A D. when he issued his famous edict. I do not think honourable senators opposite should treat this matter so humorously because it is extremely serious and it shows the extent to which even a totalitarian organisation was prepared to go in an attempt to control prices. Diocletian could scarcely be regarded as a soft character. He issued his famous edict on prices whereby he endeavoured to fix maximum prices in detail for all varieties of goods. He did not talk of particular descriptions such as the Bill does, but it then fails to give a definition. He fixed maximum prices in detail for all varieties of goods, including gold and silver, and also, I repeat, maximum wages by day or piece work for all kinds of services. Diocletian was a tough character and the penalty for exceeding this price or withholding goods from the market was death. Although there were many executions, the edict proved a failure. It was unenforceable and he was unable to control inflation by means of the edict. There were heavy imports of corn which came from Libya, but the price fixed by the Emperor was less than the merchants had to pay for the product. Accordingly the corn was sold from under the counter and a black market was created. Then began, I suppose, the first of a whole list of failures at price control right down through history. I repeat that even though the penalty for non-compliance was death, price control failed to work. 
Then 500 years later the Emperor Charlemagne tried the same thing. He also was unsuccessful. Centuries later in Elizabethan England an attempt of this type was made to control prices. Again it was unsuccessful. The German city states of the 16th century also tried price control. This again was a failure. Then the American colonies tried it. Again it was a failure. It was abandoned by them all. History has proven that that type of control succeeds only in producing planned shortages. This Government is entitled to its Prices 
Justification Tribunal because, as I said earlier, it claims that it has a mandate in relation to it. Without debating that matter of fiction, it is a challenge which we do not propose in this instance to take up. I simply say we will not stop the Government from going off on this futile economic frolic, knowing full well that in the interests of Australia it will be forced to take an interest in the only real controller of prices, namely, productivity. 
The Bill itself requires any company which has a turnover of $20m a year to give 21 days notice to the Tribunal if it proposes to raise prices. 1 have made earlier reference to this matter. I come back to the extraordinary delay which may take place in regard to raising the price of certain items. There must be a number of motor car firms which have a turnover of more than $20m a year.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  what do you think happens to the value of a secondhand automobile which is standing in the yard of a large dealer who has to wait 5 months before he can have its price fixed? Surely this is grossly unfair and can work very grave hardship. It is abundantly clear to me that this Bill was drafted by the ghost of the late W. S. Gilbert of Gilbert and Sullivan fame. No other outfit, not even this Government, could concoct such a mish-mash, such a gallimaufry, without this type of Gilbertian inspiration. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Science. Having regard to the heavy incidence of fog at Canberra Airport these days can the Minister advise whether any work on fog dispersal is being carried out by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or any other Commonwealth body? Is the partly successful FIDO used during the war years capable of adaptation, or is it too expensive for civilian use? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does the Minister recall his Leader's statement a few days ago in another place that relations between Australia and the United States of America had been strengthened by the Whitlam Government? I ask the Minister: Was this a serious statement of the Government's achievements? Has this strengthening been brought about by the intemperate criticism of President Nixon by 3 senior Ministers of the Government on the 
Hanoi bombing and by the Prime Minister's own letter? Has this strengthening been effected by  Mr Whitlam's  recent contumelious remarks about  President  Nixon which seem to have resulted in the withdrawal of the welcome mat for him - a welcome which was always there for Liberal Prime Ministers? 
&gt;I wish to take advantage of the forms of the Senate to press upon the Government the desirability of examining as soon as possible some method of removing from the Post Office the overall control which it possesses in regard to the allocation of electronic frequencies. It is my belief that we should proceed as quickly as possible with the setting up of a Federal communications commission in this country. One of the great difficulties in the allocation of bands of frequency by the Post Office is, of course, that the Post Office itself is a user of frequency bands, and no body or no person who actually uses frequencies ought to be given the benefit of allotting them to itself. I realise that our Federal Constitution in Australia varies considerably in many respects from that of the United States of America, but there are sufficient similarities to make it desirable, in my view, to examine mutatis mutandis the setting up in this country of a Federal communications commission which would be completely responsible for the control of electro magnetic radiation. 
I yield to no man in my admiration of the intelligence, the acumen and the ability of the Post Office engineers. I think we in this country have been extremely fortunate to have Post Office engineers who rank with the world's best. But because of the previous Administrations and the current Administration - I make no distinction between political panties - the Post Office willy nilly has become a dictatorship, particularly in regard to these matters. I listened with interest when the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  this morning was discussing the difficulties which he is having in regard to the rapid implementation of frequency modulation broadcasting. I think it is true to say that some of the Minister's difficulties and some of the industry's difficulties are caused by the fact that frequency allocation in this country was done on an ad hoc basis. 
In 1961 a special committee - the Huxley Committee - was set up. It brought forward certain recommendations which set out a plan for the control of radio frequency allocation in Australia. I do not blame the Committee itself and I do not resile from the fact that the report was adopted by the Government which I supported. I simply say I think that adoption was wrong. I think the Committee was given a task to do which it should never have been given. I think we have found that in the pursuit of economic and commercial convenience, we have sold a great deal of the very valuable very high frequency space which is just as much one of the - I think I could use this term - mineral resources of this country as is uranium or anything else. 
I am not the least bit embarrassed in commending the Minister for the Media on the zeal and the intelligence which he has shown in pursuing this very significant matter in regard to the culture of the nation. I have no hesitation at all in saying that taxi trucks and the like should not occupy the VHF band; it is far too valuable. Let them go up to the ultra high frequency band. I also want to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that in relation to the very new area - I use the expression 'new area' in regard to normal radio frequency radiation at about 470 megahertz and above - I have been informed on credible authority that some areas in this band have already been allotted by the Post Office. I ask the Minister: Who is responsible legally for the control of frequencies in this important area? It is important now and it will become much more important in the near future when, as seems possible, the frequency modulation transmitters will operate in the ultra high frequency band. I hope that the Minister will be able to give us some enlightenment on this matter. For what it is worth, as a senator in the third row back in the Opposition, I assure him of such support as I can give in seeing that the control of frequencies is put under one sane permanent authority and that it is not split up between 3 authorities as it is at the moment. 
When we get up in the 470 megs area we find that, while commercial organisations have done work in this area, a great deal of work has been done by amateur organisations. The Minister will be aware from his knowledge of the history of broadcasting and electronic work in this country that the amateurs have contributed an enormous amount both to the entertainment of the public and the cultural and economic use of frequencies in this nation. I can recall that in the late 1920s the Government of the day was setting up at enormous expense - it was an enormous expense for those days; I think about £2m was involved - a special high-powered longwave transmitter for communication with Chelmsford in England. As a result of the work of amateurs in transmissions on what was then called the short wave band, it was discovered that easy, simple and cheap communication could be established in this frequency region. As a result of amateur experiments the government of the day was saved approximately £2m which, of course, was quite a lot of money in those days. 
I will not run through the other areas in which amateurs have worked for the benefit of this country, such as the work they have done in times of flood and fire - I cannot add in famine. But at times of national emergency, when the Post Office has been unable to establish communication, in very many instances it has been established, without charge and completely on a voluntary basis, by members of the amateur fraternity. I might add that one of the ironies of the situation is that messages passed voluntarily by amateurs in time of emergency have been charged a fee by the Post Office. If that is not a dictatorship, I would like to know what is. 
In addition, these men who do so much research work are landed with an iniquitous 27i per cent sales tax on their electronic equipment. True it is that certain transmitting equipment is exempt from sales tax but, in the bulk, amateurs are compelled to pay this 27i per cent. I think it is right that surf clubs should be given assistance in the way of sales tax remissions, but I think that this other section of the community is just as valuable and it should have just as many opportunities of receiving the benefit of sales tax remissions as other voluntary organisations. With these few thoughts I leave the matter to the Minister for the Media. I commend him for the energy which he is showing in establishing his new portfolio. I hope that before the matter is ended we will have one sane intelligent frequency allocation body operating in the country, and that there will be one sane permanent operating body which will control all radio, all broadcasting, commercial and national, in this country. 
-Does the Leader of  the Government in the Senate know that the Prime Minister, in another place, in putting forward the record of his Government adopted the title used by John Henry Cardinal Newman in his famous work 'Apologia Pro Vita Sua'? Can the Minister advise the Senate whether  Mr Whitlam  would have used that title if he had known why Cardinal Newman wrote the book? 
 I direct a question to the Special Minister of State, who is about to go overseas. I refer to the question asked by  Senator Greenwood  and the countries listed by him. I ask the Minister: Will he allow me to add my wishes of godspeed for the success of bis trip? I also ask him: Will he make an attempt to make contact with the Leaders of the Opposition in all of those countries, with one exception? 
 I support the amendment moved by  Senator Davidson.  I do not propose to traverse the matter at any length. I say simply that I accept the reasoning behind his amendment. I think it does 2 things: Firstly, it makes the matter more emotionally acceptable and, secondly, it makes it more legally certain. I support the amendment and I accept the logic which led so ineluctably to the propounding of that amendment. 
asked the Attorney- 
General, upon notice: 
Will the Attorney-General consider introducing legislation to make it an offence to burn the Australian flag. 

 Senator MURPHY- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The honourable senator's suggestion has been drawn to the attention of the Special Minister of State who is responsible for the Flags Act. 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister for the Media. In a sense it follows on  Senator Jessop's  question, ls the Minister aware of the standards laid down by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board relating to propriety and decency in television material? Is it a fact that last evening on channel 9  Mr Whitlam  in a taped program made such an outrageous attack on a Catholic bishop that the licensees of the station had to censor a number of words from the interview in order not to breach the Control Board's standards of decency and the laws of libel? As  Mr Whitlam  probably will want to make further telecasts in the future, will the Minister be good enough to send him a copy of the Control Board's little book containing such standards of decency? 
It is blue, from memory. Can the Minister say whether this is the first occasion on which a Prime Minister's telecast has had to be censored? I join  Senator Jessop  in asking whether, in view of the Minister's own outspoken attack on the laws of libel, he will arrange to table in the Senate, where they are priviledged, an exact transcript of  Mr Whitlam's  remarks and so allow the Australian people to form their own judgment on their Prime Minister, a judgment which is becoming increasingly adverse, as the weekend gallup poll showed. 
 I simply remind my friend  Senator Mulvihill,  who has just resumed his seat, that the Australian Citizenship Bill has nothing whatever to do with national anthems. If I may borrow an expression from  Mr Whitlam,  this Bill is a mish-mash of airy platitudes and the gallimaufry of high fallutin' nonsense which comprises the second reading speech of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  most certainly does not have the effect which the speech purports to state that the Bill has. The first guiding principle enunciated by the Minister is that there must be no discrimination between different groups of settlers. This is a most commendable attitude. The trouble is that this Government does not practice what is preaches. I wonder whether any member of the Australian Labor Party would be game to go into a Croatian camp and peddle the line that Croatians are not being persecuted in this country? Would they care to go to a Ukrainian association and tell the. Ukrainians that they are not being persecuted by this rabble of a Government? Would they care to go to representatives of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia and tell them that they are not being persecuted by this mish-mash of a Cabinet which comprises the current Government. 
In his second reading speech the Minister went on to talk of equality before the law. This is a really decent socialist joke. As George Orwell said - I do not take the credit - some citizens are more, equal than others. I think that even  Mr Grassby  has referred to that. But the citizens who are more equal than others in my mind are the trade union secretaries and the trade unionists whom this Government proposes to make immune from tort in industrial action. How equal can you get? There is nothing new in the requirements for citizenship which the Minister set out. I find nothing to quibble at. I think I may say that I have had as much to do with migrants from Europe as have most senators in this place and I have found these wonderful migrants who have helped to build this nation to be splendid people. One only has to think of the Snowy River job and the other construction jobs which would not be finished yet if it had not been for the help of migrants from Europe. I have many friends among migrants; they visit my home. 
Having said that, I do not resile personally from the proposition that in some ways the British migrant is a special migrant. I object - I will not take this belief to the, point of voting accordingly - that the British migrant should have to wait 3 years, exactly the same length of time as a migrant from any other country, before he is granted citizenship. I would not hesitate to afford him special considerations. There are good economic and social reasons for this. It is not a matter of jingoism. The British migrant does not need to be taught the language. By and large, we can understand an Englishman no matter where he comes from, although there may be some difficulties with accent. By and large he does not need to learn the English language. Also, he is familiar with the. political institutions by which we are governed. In general, he is absorbed into our community with a minimum of difficulty and fuss. I am one who believes in a strong migration policy. 
On those practical grounds alone I think there is good reason for putting the British migrant in a special category. It does not seem odd to me to put people from the British Isles, including those from Eire, into a special category. After all, if it were not for James Cook we would not be here. This place in which we debate comes from the Westminster system; it does not come from Moscow, Vienna or any other place. Our legal system is identical with the British legal system. British precedents are virtually binding on our courts and in some cases decisions of the Privy Council are absolutely binding. Also, we have a British type of public service. There are very many ways in which our social, cultural and economic habits, customs and traditions are bound up with those of the British Isles. I think that the word 'discrimination' is wrong if it is said that the present system discriminates in favour of British migrants, lt is not suggested that we learn test cricket from Bessarabia. Most of our progenitors came from the British Isles. It is only by recognising the ordinary human trait in the family that in ordinary circumstances we realise that we have a somewhat more positive nexus with these people. I repeat that 1 am a great supporter of the migrant program involving Continental countries and I thank again publicly those people from those countries who have helped to build this nation. 
Much of the Minister's speech unfortunately was in keeping with standard Labor practice of attempting to make invidious comparisons between the present Labor Government of dynamic activity and its Liberal predecessor. I wonder sometimes whether Labor supporters know what is meant by the word dynamo'. The word means an engine which is given power by an outside field. I think that if they realised that they would cease using the term 'dynamic' as much as they do. The whole business of invidious comparison is a myth. Labor supporters talk about the injustice of leaving British migrants in ignorance. I do not know what  Mr Grassby  intends to do to inform them of matters on which they are at present in the dark. I do not know what he could have expected us to do in the past. 
I think perhaps the silliest feature of the so-called improvements is the swearing of the oath to the Constitution and not to the Queen. I listened with interest to what  Senator Davidson  and  Senator Little  said in this regard and I find myself in agreement with their remarks. But I want to look at what I believe to be the rationale of the Labor Party in putting this proposition forward. The Labor Party says: 'Do not take the Oath of Allegiance to the Queen because she is the 
Queen of England', and it ignores its own legislation in the matter. It says: Take the oath to the Constitution'. If ever there was arrant nonsense, this is it. Whatever objections there may be to the Queen  -  I do not see any - there are infinitely more objections to the Constitution because the Constitution is simply an Act of the Parliament of Westminster and it has nothing to do with this Parliament at all in its essence and origin. We will go along and tell a Dutchman - and this could equally apply to a Norwegian, a Britisher or anyone else - that we want him to take the oath of allegiance to an Act of the Parliament of Great Britain which was enacted 73 years ago and which the same Parliament can change any time it likes. We will tell him that he has to be loyal and swear allegiance to the old Act which was passed 73 years ago. But in law the Parliament of Great Britain can at any time repeal and change that Act if it wishes. 
How silly and idiotic can you be? This sort of legislation will only thoroughly confuse a migrant. The Labor Party will take the Queen away from the migrant and will subsitute an obscure Act of British Parliament over which this nation has no control. I do not think that the swearing to the Constitution has an ominous ring about it. The voice is the voice of Whitlam but the mind is the mind of Cromwell. The current immigration legislation will do to the Queen, metaphorically speaking, what that man did to Charles I. 
I am no Roundhead. We seem to have a group of parliamentary roundheads opposite. They propose to carry out what their spiritual forbear did to Charles I. This Bill is a socialist attempt to downgrade the monarchy in the eyes of all our migrants and to do what that anti-constitutional Commonwealth man Cromwell did some hundreds of years ago. I do not get very agitated about the change of name of the Act. I cannot understand the Minister's statement that the word 'naturalisation' is more difficult to pronounce than the word 'citizenship'. 
There may be something in what  Senator Mulvihill  says. I doubt it. It does not seem to me to be a valid reason for changing the name of the Act, but it isnot a matter upon which I am prepared to argue. It may have overtones for you,  Mr ActingDeputy President,  of the French Revolution, and to that extent it might well be sinister. Citizen Mulvihill might be apprehended and taken in a tumbrel to the place of execution and there disposed of in the way that citizens were disposed of in days gone by. I sincerely hope that that is not the intention; I would hate to see  Senator Mulvihill  in a tumbrel. 
I agree with the commendation made by the Minister of the right honourable Arthur Augustus Calwell, the architect of our original immigration policy. I do not think this nation can be sufficiently grateful to  Mr Calwell  for these things: The precedents which he. established in dealing with immigration, the enormous work which he did and the tremendous benefit which his work in immigration has brought to this country. I feel sure that this chamber would not be divided on that matter. In any event, there would be one point on which all 60 of us would agree, and that is that this nation will be eternally indebted to Arthur Calwell for his work on immigration. Having said that, I add that the work of Arthur Calwell was carried on very well, very successfully, very intelligently and very humanely by a succession of Liberal Ministers for Immigration. Like a previous  speaker,  1 am not terribly keen on the return of the renunciation of existing allegiances. Apart from the fact that I do not think it has any legal significance whatever in the country of origin, there must be a certain amount of heartburn and a certain amount of emotional turmoil when, at a citizenship ceremony, this phrase has to be repeated by the applicant for citizenship. As we know from the arguments which we have had about dual citizenship in Greece, Yugoslavia and the United States, we are not able, by any law which this Parliament passes, to remove the legal effectiveness of laws enacted by a person's country of origin when that person returns to the jurisdiction of his country of origin. 
I think it is right that we should say, having been through the Minister's second reading speech, that we have never had a government so full of self praise and inordinate pomposity as this Government. There is scarcely a paragraph without some wellearned tribute to itself. The Government has dedicated itself to enhancing still further the significance and repute of the title "Australian citizen" ' must have been written by the humourist of the Labor Party. I think that this Government has done more to disgrace the idea of Australian citizenship among citizens of the free world than we thought possible in the palmy days prior to 2 December. We have had our reputations sullied by an oleaginous servility to every communist country in the business and by a sycophantic adulation of Peking. We truckle to every communist government from Peking to Cuba and from North Vietnam to North Korea. We have insulted all our friends from the United States to Thailand and from Great Britain to Malaysia. We are now entering the nation into what 1 regard as a disgraceful exercise by supping with the so-called Third World in Algiers. 
This Government, which says that it wants all its migrants to be equal, has a shocking record already in the United Nations. It has truckled to nations such as Burundi, the Sudan and Ethiopia - countries with oneparty dictatorships and countries which brutally mutilate a convicted person. For example, in Burundi, the left hand is cut off on the first conviction for theft. In Ethiopia the same penalty applies. They are the governments which this Government has set out to impress, to truckle to and with which to try to improve its image, regardless of those nations among which we strode 10 feet tall before 2 December. This Government has been selectively racist. It makes a tremendous song and dance about Rhodesia. It actually was game enough to stop 19 girls from  a  religious society in Rhodesia stopping in Sydney. How it truckled to the people who voted in the United Nations for the sanctions. But it gives hundreds of thousands of dollars in aid to Uganda, Burundi and similar countries. How on earth this Government can justify the giving of money to the racist Amin is beyond me. If it says that it wants all migrants to be equal- 
I will get that information for the honourable senator. I will  do  that by asking a question tomorrow. 
I do the best I can. Frankly, I find it very difficult to accept the Minister's statement that all migrants are to be equal and that we have no discrimination when we find this tremendous program of aid going forward to President Amin's dictatorship in Uganda. This morning's Press carried stories from Milton Obote, the former President of Uganda, Since he is not in the pocket of the Liberal Party. I suppose we can accept his assurance that Amin has killed 80,000 of his fellow countrymen. Still this Government pours aid to him to help him kill more, presumably. I hope we can abandon all the nonsense, humbug and hypocrisy and get back to the earlier pristine days when the Labor Party had ideas, put up by Arthur Calwell, when immigration was a reality and when the job done for this nation was one which we remember with pride and thankfulness. That policy was carried on by all Liberal governments. 
The purpose behind the Bill is simply obscurantist. I shall support the amendment which will be moved by  Senator Davidson,  with the slight amendment suggested by  Senator Little  which is purely for the purpose of clarifying the matter. I think that other aspects of the Bill could very well be reexamined at another time, but since the Government says that it wants the Bill passed and since the issues at the moment are rot so significant that we should reject the Bill,I am prepared to vote for its second reading. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Will the Attorney-General arrange for the Australian Security, Intelligence Organisation to investigate and have translated from the Serbian language an article in the Yugoslav magazine 'Svet' (The Word), of 8 December 1972, which carried a photograph of a  Mr Ivan  Mudrinic. 
Will the Attorney-General confirm or deny that  Mr Ivan  Mudrinic relaxing in freedom in Belgrade is the same man who was prosecuted in connection with the Warburton dynamite conspiracy case as referred to by him and  Senator Greenwood  and who was alleged to be a Croatian terrorist. 
Did  Mr Ivan  Mudrinic agree to be a prosecution witness. 
Did the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation suggest that the Warburton dynamite affair was set up by the Yugoslav consular authorities. 
Does the Attorney-General agree that the photograph of an article on  Mr Mudrinic  confirms the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation's suspicion that, far from being a Croatian terrorist, he is a member of the Yugoslav secret police, or at least an agent provocateur working to discredit the Croatian community in Australia; if so, will he make a full investigation of the alarming implications of this matter. 

 Senator MURPHY - The answer to the honourable senator's questionis as follows: 
The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has had translated the article regarding Ivan Mudrinic appearing in 'Svet' of 8 December 1972. A copy of the translation has been supplied to the honourable senator. 
A copy of the article and the accompanying photograph was shown to a member of the Victorian Police Force who confirmed that the photograph appearing in 'Svet' is a photograph of the person who was prosecuted in Melbourne in June 1972 on charges relating to the Warburton cache of explosives. 
I am informed that the Victorian Police have stated that there was no agreement for Mudrinic to be a prosecution witness. 
No. 
The proceedings against Mudrinic have not yet been completed and it would not be proper for me to comment. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to yesterday's Press reports that the dictatorship of  President  Amin of Uganda has executed 80,000 of the President's fellow citizens in the most barbarous fashion? Is the Minister aware that Uganda is a oneparty fascist-type dictatorship in which the existence of the Labor Party at present is banned? Regardless of any earlier inaction, can the Minister explain why our present dynamic Government is still pouring thousands of taxpayers' dollars into economic and training aid for Uganda? Will the Minister suspend economic and training aid to Uganda at least until the existence of the Labor Party is permitted? As Uganda is unquestionably the fiercest racist state in Africa, will the Government raise the question of sanctions at the United Nations? If not, why not? 
Before I advert directly to the Bill, it is necessary for me to make one or two remarks in regard to the effusion from my friend,  Senator Mulvihill. 
 Well, I am very tolerant in these matters. My friendships cover a wide spectrum. Christian charity demands that I call him my friend. I start with one of the more idiotic remarks that he made with respect to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Greenwood. Senator Mulvihill  said that, if  Senator Greenwood  had his way, he - like  President  Nixon - would call out the United States marines and have the workers shot. 
All right. What I ask the honourable senator to do, if it is possible, is to cast his mind back to the halcyon days of Ben Chifley. I know that when that name is used in Labor circles now one is supposed to genuflect. Ben Chifley was an outstanding Labor leader. He was a good Australian. But he. called out the troops to deal with a dispute affecting the coal industry. Ben Chifley was the first Australian Prime -Minister to call out the troops; he sent them into the coal mines. What happened after that action was that the communist leaders who 'had organised that strike- it was a political strike which, oddly enough, in those days was against the Labor Party - were put into gaol. 
Times change,  Senator Kane,  and with them the views of honourable senators- 
I do not see any great distinction between calling out the troops and putting communist leaders in gaol, and the very mild reforms which  Senator Greenwood  and members on this side of the Senate have advocated for long years past. I must refer to Mount Isa, because  Senator Mulvihill  did. Naturally, he would allot the blame not to the real villian; he would have to allot it to the Queensland Industrial Court. He would not dare mention that communist stooge, Pat Mackie, who cost the workers at Mount Isa hundreds of thousands of dollars in the period of that strike. Finally- 
 I beg your pardon? Let us- 'get .mat clear. I want Hansard to pick that interjection up. Say it again. 
 Senator Georges  suggests that Mount Isa Mines conspired partly to" wreck its own finances. That is a very interesting' theory. The final silly remark from  Senator Mulvihill  came when he spoke about  Senator Kane's  address and referred to the Moore v. Doyle case. The simple fact of that matter, as erudite lawyers like  Senator Wheeldon  and  Senator James  McClelland would tell  Senator Mulvihill,  is that the case of Moore v. Doyle has nothing to do with this Bill. 
I come to the legislation. This Bill is a thinly disguised attempt - I nearly said diseased attempt - to kill the Australian arbitration system. In this respect, it is designed to assist the strong unions such as the Amalgamated MetaL Workers' Union. It is true - and it has been shown to 'be true in England as it is here - that Labor members of Parliament have the most profound respect of trade union secretaries over whose backs they hope to climb to this exalted chamber. Once having arrived here, they lose their nexus, with industrial organisations and they do not know what goes on within the unions. I suppose it is simply the case that they are prepared to allow the weakest to go to the wall and to allow the strong metal unions and other left wing organisations to ride rampant over the rest of the industrial community. If we had any doubts as to the genuine feelings of honourable senators on the Government side, their attitude to the Bill has been disclosed most clearly here this evening because practically no one on the. Government side has spoken in support of the Bill. We have heard a speech from  Senator James  McClelland. I will dignify what  Senator Mulvihill  said by calling it a speech. But no one else on the Government side has said anything. 
What is wrong with the BUI? Are honourable senators on the Government side going to leave it to honourable senators on this side to point out all the troubles? We have only a relatively short space of time in which to debate this Bill, but we will do the best that we can within that limit. I was impressed by  Senator Kane's  reference to the $25,000 bribe paid to the Australian Labor Party by the Amalgamated Metal Workers' Union. This payment, I believe, was a disgrace to Australian politics, but unfortunately this country carries this disgrace. 
Let us analyse this matter.  Senator Georges  does not agree with it. 
 Senator Kane  is a trade unionist; so am I. 
I am still a financial member of my union, and I go to all its meetings. 
I have been paid for my services in that capacity and I think that that is more than the honourable senator could say if he went to his union. 
That is not what my union thinks. I want to return to the inquity of this bribe. I will put the word bribe in inverted commas if  Senator Georges  does not like it in its naked form. What happened was simply that the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who was then Leader of the Opposition, went cap in hand to this mighty metal union and said: 'Look, we need the money, boys. I promise that, if you kick in, there will be no prosecutions under the Concilitation and Arbitration Bill and we will scrub the sanctions'. The Prime Minister having said that, what happened? Along came a cheque for $25,000. That is real money in anybody's language. It is real money even in the language of the Labor Party whose coffers are so copiously refreshed by adequate contributions from 4KQ and many other capitalist organisations . which contributed money towards the support of the Party which is now the socialist Government in Australia. I cannot understand why the Labor Party should support the destruction of the arbitration system. I do not think that any fair, unbiased observer could fail to agree that the conciliation and arbitration system and the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Court in this country have brought undoubted benefits to the working man and also to the community as a whole. 
I agree with  Senator Georges  on that point because one of the errors which is made- 
I wish to refer to some aspects of primary industry which, I think, bear examination. I share  Senator Webster's  concern that the subvention in this case is to be limited to 12 months, lt is a matter of history that until recently the Australian wool industry was in a parlous condition. If it had not been for the actions of the previous Government in making price support arrangements, it is abundantly clear that very many wool growers would have had to leave their properties. 
As  Senator Webster  said, some did. Therefore, it is all the more worrying that, in an industry which is particularly subject to the fluctuations of an overseas market, the subvention is limited to one year. Of necessity, this must cause worry in planning in the industry. One year certainly is not long enough for any farmer to make proper, long range plans. 
 As  Senator Webster  said, particularly for research. I think it is particularly unfortunate that the Government should be cutting the period short in this fashion at a time when the total primary debt is in the vicinity of $3, 800m. I am speaking now from memory. That is carried, of course, by the banks, the pastoral companies and other financial institutions. 
We have been regaled with stories in the Press that the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr Cairns,  has been wandering around China making a large number of foreign affairs statements. It has been alleged that he also has made certain trade agreements. It occurs to me that, instead of chasing the myth of the China market, as has been explained so splendidly by Professor Heinz Arndt, the former economic adviser to the Labor Party, the Minister for Overseas Trade would be far better occupied if he directed his attention to what is probably a far more lucrative market. I refer to the market in the United States of Amenca. 
Debate interrupted. 

 - Mr President- 

Yes. I wish to rebut an allegation. I sought leave earlier, without success, to make a statement in regard to a particular matter. I simply state that the allegation was made tonight by  Senator Georges  and  Senator O'Byrne  that I had in some way broken an agreement by speaking for 30 minutes, thus causing the disgraceful imbroglio which took place during the debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. The length of my speech was specifically in accordance with the arrangements made by the Whips. I rebut as completely and utterly unfounded the snide interjections by  Senator Georges  at a time when the proceedings were being broadcast and there were open microphones in the chamber. I rebut also the allegations by  Senator O'Byrne  who, in a snide fashion, took advantage of the fact that his remarks were audible to a listening public. The allegations are completely untrue and completely without foundation. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I refer the Minister to my question to him several weeks ago relating to his statement in the Senate that a Croatian, one Ivan Pavlovic, had threatened to kill the Yugoslav Prime Minister Bijedic. I ask: Does the Minister know that Commonwealth Police have informed Pavlovic that the only evidence against him was 2 anonymous phone calls to a police station? Does the Minister know that Pavlovic has made a sworn declaration denying any threat at any time to kill Bijedic? As this working man's livelihood is adversely affected by this allegation, will the Minister check it and if it is found to be incorrect make a withdrawal before the Senate rises, as this course would seem to be the only one consonant with honour and justice? 
When this debate was adjourned last night, I had been discussing the question of seeking fresh markets for the product of this, our most important industry. Before continuing on that line, may I say that considerable disappointment is felt in the rural community at the failure of the Government to honour its promise of long term low interest loans. All that will be made available to the rural producer will be such amounts as are available at normal bank rates. This would seem to suggest that the rural producer has been conned in this matter and that loans which previously have been available through pastoral companies, banks and insurance companies will not be improved upon by legislation introduced by the present Government. I suppose that that figures in a sense because this Government has no genuine interest in rural affairs or in the man on the land for the simple reason that it is unable to win any seats which are truly rural seats. 
There is one area in which, if the Government was sincere, it might be able to bring about a genuine benefit to wool growers in our community. As I mentioned last night,  Dr J.  F. Cairns has been tripping around China making various statements on foreign affairs and periodically referring to trade. He has returned to Australia with the story that an enormous market is to open to us, gradually at all events, in China. Whatever may be the case with respect to that claim, there is a far more significant and a far more important market which this Government should attempt to penetrate and for which the previous Administration has laid the ground rules. 
For about 35 years - I cannot give the precise number of years at the moment - the wool grower of the United States of America has been protected by an enormous impost on imported greasy wool amounting to 25½c per lb. The previous Australian Administration began protracted negotiations with American authorities on that matter. This year, with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade negotiations being opened up and international trade talks beginning again in September, a good opportunity could well be provided for the new Government to show its bona fides in pressing if not for the abolition of this enormous impost - difficulties could arise with respect to GATT if that was done - for a substantial reduction in, or at least even a temporary suspension of, that impost, even if Australia had to give some quid pro quo. The value of such relief to the Australian wool producer would be infinitely greater than all the wool in China. 
If anything, this underlines the very grave disadvantage to this country which results from the inability of our Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to secure an appointment with  Mr Nixon  when he visits Washington. That visit would provide an excellent opportunity for the Prime Minister to discuss this matter which is of paramount importance to our greatest industry. The Americans in the past have not shown themselves to be entirely inflexible. But one does not have to believe that they are a gang of philanthropists and philosophers because they may well want their quid pro quo. 
In the past, there has been considerable discussion, as you would be aware,  Sir, of  the Australian tobacco industry as being the industry which should carry such a quid pro quo.  Sir John  McEwen and other Liberal- 
Country Party administrators in the past virtually at one stage had reached an agreement whereby the Americans were prepared to reduce that impost of 25½c per lb on greasy wool to 12½c per lb. One does not need to be a great mathematician or to have the benefit of a computer in order-- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - Order! The time allotted for all stages of these Bills having expired, I put the question: 'That the Bills be now read a second time'. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills together read a second time. 
Remaining stages of Bills agreed to. 
I should like to direct a question to the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  regarding clauses 3 and 4 of the Broadcasting and Television Bill. According to the explanatory notes which were handed out by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in another place, the Broadcasting and Television Bill deals only with the question of licences for certain pensioners - a matter with which the Opposition is in full agreement. However, clauses 3 and 4 provide that the remuneration of the  Chairman  and members of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission shall be fixed by the Parliament. I ask the Minister whether any action has been taken regarding the fixation of this set of salaries because I think - I am not quite sure of this, I am speaking from memory - that the salaries of these men and women were before the Senate last year. I would be glad if the Minister could give me some information regarding those 2 matters. 
I wish to direct the attention of the Minister for Repatriation and Acting Minister for Labour  (Senator Bishop)  to clause 6 of the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Bill, which seems to be the operative part of the Bill. Drawing upon his gynaecological knowledge, can the Minister tell me what would be the effect of this provision in the case of, let us say, a first confinement which is 2 to 4 weeks late? Would that period be added to the 3 months allowed? Clause 6 (1) (b) seems to deal only with those cases where the confinement occurs a little earlier than expected. Perhaps the Minister can answer that question. 
So, instead of getting 3 months maternity leave, such a female employee would get 4 months maternity leave. The other point is rather trumpery. The Bill refers to 'a female employee who has become pregnant'. Does the Minister know of any other type of employee who could become pregnant? 
That is the point. Do we have to spell out these things. 1 leave the matter at that. 
Bills agreed to. 
Bills reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to  Mr Whitlam's  statement in New Delhi on Wednesday that Australia would be deserting its traditional friends and allies, Great Britain and the United States of America, in voting in the United Nations and would be consulting 5 other powers, including Tanzania? Is the Minister aware that Tanzania is a oneparty fascist type state, despite its close subservience to Red China? Is it a fact that Tanzania's air force, such as it is, is being trained by Red China near Peking? Can the Minister explain to the Senate by which line of tortuous reasoning Australia possesses any social, political, economic or other interests with Tanzania? 
The Prime Minister did not say that he would consult Spain or Portugal. I suppose that is relevant. Can the Minister explain why we propose to desert Britain and the United States of America for the advice and opinion of such a fascist state? Is this a fair indication of the phoney independent foreign policy being foisted upon Australia by the present ephemeral Government? 
I wish to direct a question to the Attorney-General in regard to the Senate 's Croatian inquiry. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Health been directed to the statement in this morning's Press that doctors have the highest suicide rate in the community, namely 1 in 30? Can the Minister say whether this is understood to be caused by overwork? If so, what does the Government propose to do about it? Can the Minister say whether the suicide rate among doctors has accelerated since 2 December last? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade: Is it not a fact that during his recent North American tour our present Prime Minister made great play with the allegation that his Government had shown international trading responsibility in cutting trading tariffs on goods from under-developed countries? Is it not a fact that the 2 countries which benefit most from current trade tariff cuts are the fascist Governments of Spain and Greece? What is the Government's excuse for this ideological somersault? What action, if any, is the Government taking to improve the economic trading position of the fascist Government of Tanzania about which the Prime Minister has spoken so favourably? What effect will the current trading tariff cuts have on trade between Australia and Singapore? Will such trade be adversely affected by the Prime Minister's description of Lee Kuan Yew as being like Cromwell? Is it not a fact that comparing the head of a friendly foreign country to Cromwell is an insult which goes far beyond normal ideological differences? 
 I direct a question to the Minister Assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the Government's preoccupation with African affairs, has the Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that, probably under Chinese pressure, the Government of Senegal has recognised the socalled Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam - in other words, the Vietcong? Is the Minister aware that the lawful Government of South Vietnam immediately broke off diplomatic relations with Senegal? Is it not a fact that the Whitlam Government is endeavouring to accord diplomatic recognition to the Vietcong as soon as these people can seize a reasonable size town and hold it? In view of the lesson to Senegal, will the Minister give an assurance that Australia will not risk such a rebuff by further deserting our former ally? 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Would it be practical- I know that there are some difficulties in this- to give a brief resume of the more important matters to be raised by the Australian Government at the present Tokyo conference of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade which I understand will last until 30 September. Has he briefed his colleague the Minister for Overseas Trade and Secondary Industry fully on all items that will come before GATT affecting the primary producer? Will he confirm his assurance given to me some time ago that the question of the United States duty of 25.5c per lb on greasy wool will be debated strenuously by his colleague,  Dr Cairns,  at the Tokyo conference? 
Tonight I appeal to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  on a matter of very grave international and national significance. I refer to a most serious matter for debate and action at the General Assembly of the United Nations which meets on the third Tuesday of this month in New York. It will be 1 1 years, on 18 October, since I appealed in this chamber for the then Government to raise before the United Nations the question of the persecution of Jews within the Soviet Union. Despite a good deal of abuse, the Liberal Government saw the justice of the plea. It took action before the United Nations. It was supported by a number of significant governments of the free world. As a result, considerable numbers of Jews were permitted to migrate from Moscow to Israel. They were granted a previously unobtainable freedom. If any honourable senator has any doubt as to the truth of this fact, I suggest that that honourable senator check with the present Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  who at that time was one of our diplomats in Moscow. 
Tonight's reference is again an appeal to our Government to take some action on a matter inside the Soviet Union. It is a matter which is capable of being raised before the United Nations General Assembly which meets, as I said, on the third Tuesday of this month in New York. It is the question of the supression, imprisonment and torture of political dissidents inside the Soviet Union. I am moved to make this appeal to the Government by a most extraordinary interview given by Alexander Solzhenitsyn to 2 Western Journalists at the beginning of this month. Alexander Solzhenitsyn is Russia's most distinguished writer and a holder of the Nobel Peace Prize. Although he is virtually imprisoned behind the Soviet curtain, Alexander Solzhenitsyn has issued a blast of criticism of the Soviet administration which none of us here in the safety and the security of this chamber could hope to equal. I quote the report as it appeared in the Melbourne 'Age '. It states: 
Alexander Solzhenitsyn told his interviewers that he might suddenly be declared 'mysteriously dead'. He abused and derided Russia's advanced state order' and hailed the dissidents who opposed it. He also explained their need for outside support and some doubts as to whether the West is really listening. He also defined the spirit in which the repressions of today ought to be confronted. 
For much of what I have to say I rely not only on Alexander Solzhenitsyn but also on his fellow countryman,  Dr Andrei  Sakharov, the father of Russia's hydrogen bomb, who was helped in the past in his work by traitors like Fuchs and NunnMay. Sakharov was nominated by Alexander Solzhenitsyn for this years 's Nobel Peace Prize. As honourable senators know, the former winner of that Prize has the right to nominate someone to be the subsequent holder of it. Sakharov is technically free in Russia but is subject to vitriolic attacks in the Government controlled Press, radio and television which depict him as a warmonger. Solzhenitsyn points out that citizenship in Russia is not an inalienable right for every human being born on its soil. It is a kind of coupon controlled by an exclusive clique who can declare a person deprived of his homeland if they do not approve of his convictions. He goes on to say that there are many hundreds, perhaps thousands, who disagree with the Soviet regime and are accordingly put into mental asylums. Whether this is better than being shot, as was standard practice under Stalin, I do not know. At all events, it strikes me as being an appalling crime. The speech that Solzhenitsyn made in his 
Nobel Prize winning essay was made from behind the Iron Curtain, and he was hoping that the fact that he was in such physical danger himself would give added impetus to the speech and cause far more notice to be taken of it in the West. He said that he was disappointed. He said: 
I was wrong. It is as if what I had said had never been said. And maybe it is as useless to repeat it today. 
I appeal to the Government to take the matter to the United Nations so as to show Sulzhenitsyn that his appeal has not fallen on deaf ears. He referred to the fact that those who have never experienced the jamming of foreign radio broadcasts cannot understand the frustration that it creates, especially in a country without a free Press. Sulzhenitsyn says: 
It means the degradation of a man to a robot 's level. 
We have known for years that Russian elections have been a bit of a farce- one-party elections of the faithful chosen by the authorities from among the party workers. Despite that, I believe that this plea is worth making. One of the few Soviet military men with the courage to buck the system is General Pyotr Grigorenko. He is now in a mental home for his pains, receiving injections of the drug halobiridol which damages the brain. Can we imagine the enormity of this? Imagine putting anyone in this country in an asylum because he disagreed politically with  Mr Whitlam  or even with  Senator Murphy? 
I want to keep this debate on a non-political basis. It is far too serious for party politics. In Russia the mere fact that Grigorenko disagreed with the Soviet tyranny was held to be proof of his insanity. Listen to Solzhenitsyn's words on Grigorenko, because they ought to ring in our ears. Solzhenitsyn says: 
When from the ranks of our glittering and decorated Generals this lone Grigorenko appeared and was brave enough to express his non-conformist view about the course of the last War and about today's Soviet society- a view which was in fact strictly Marxist Leninist- his opinions were held to be symptoms of insanity. 
Is it not incredible that a nation which can launch satellites, cosmonauts, nuclear submarines and intercontinental ballistic missiles is utterly unable to devise a social system which will allow its people to live in freedom and dignity? However, Sozhenitsyn is not alone. The physicist Andrei Sakharov to whom I referred earlier supports him to the hilt. Both of them expect to be arrested at any time. Despite this, they have spoken out. Sakharov told 14 Western journalists that Soviet psychiatrists were injecting the depressant drug halobiridol into sane men and women in asylums. He named in particular the dissident physicist Leonid Plyusch. Sakharov referred to the forthcoming psychiatrists conference to be held at Georgia in Russia. He urged the foreign psychiatrists to demand the right to visit dissidents held in mental hospitals and, if permission is refused, they should not have any contact with Soviet psychiatrists who, Sakharov said, were accomplices in these crimes. 
I realise that the Australian Government might say that this is an internal Soviet matter and that we will wash our hands of it, but to me that sounds like Pontius Pilate talking. Or the Government might say: 'What good would such a protest do? We would just be beating the air. ' I answer that attitude with the words of Solzhenitsyn which prove that a real protest might- I emphasise the word 'might'- be successful. He said: 
International information, ideas, facts and human protests do slip through and have an influence. It is important to understand that the East is not at all indifferent to protests from public opinion in the West. On the contrary, it has deadly fear of them and only of them. But protests had this impact within the Soviet Union only when it is backed by the united might voice of hundreds of prominent people- by the opinions of a whole continent. 
Australia is a whole continent. If  Mr Whitlam  were to take our protest over this barbarous conduct to the United Nations when it meets next week, I believe he would have the blessing of all people of goodwill in this Commonwealth. I ask honourable senators opposite to imagine for one moment what would happen if this sort of conduct were attributed publicly to the Rhodesians or the South Africans. Hansard would run red with indignant blood and I would not blame anyone for that, for so it should. Two American Government departments have already made their co-operation dependant upon Russia granting freedom to its dissidents.  Sir Alex  Haddow, Professor Emeritus in Experimental Pathology at London University has resigned his honorary membership of the Soviet Academy of Science on the same issue. 
This is no more a purely internal issue than is apartheid. I have endeavoured to avoid with studious care and extraordinary restraint any attempt to make this a party political matter. I refer the Government to the very worth while result of the Liberal Government's protest in 1962. That protest was savagely attacked at the time but it bore very fruitful results for several hundred elderly Jews. I know that  Senator Murphy  is a man of humanitarian tendencies because of his statement in regard to the forthcoming Bill of Rights and I offer this Government a chance to redeem its humanitarian image by taking appropriate action at the United Nations without delay. 

 Senator POYSER (Victoria) &lt; 1 1.12)- I listened with great interest to the matters raised by  Senator Hannan.  I think we should also consider today what has happened in Chile. Equally we should have the same compassion in relation to the overthrow of an elected government in Chile. The  President  of that great country, a  president  who was elected democratically by the people, has been forced to take his own life because of the intervention of those who would not accept the decisions of the people who elected a person under the democratic system. When we look at what  Senator Hannan  has raised we should also think about the intervention of a very great nation in many countries throughout the world and I refer to the United States of America. The intervention of the Central Intelligence Agency in matters involving murder and the overthrow of democratically elected governments should be considered in the same strain. 

 Senator Hannan made a plea that this matter not to be treated as a political issue, yet he used satirical remarks at one stage of his speech in relation to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  I applaud  Senator Hannan  for raising this matter if he honestly believes that the principle should apply everywhere in the world and that it should apply in all countries which have faced this kind of situation. 
I do. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Prime Minister aware that on 10 August 1973, the Deputy Prime Minister announced that nuclear fall-out detected at Laverton was from the French nuclear explosion. 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to the claim contained in the Melbourne Observer of Sunday week ago that Australian scientists are seething with indignation because they claim that such fall-out was not from the French but from the Chinese bomb. 
Does the Prime Minister agree that as the French merely detonated nuclear trigger devices, whereas the Chinese detonated a full-scale bomb, such fall-out is more likely to be of Chinese origin. 
Will the Government rebut the Australian scientists' claim and disclose the scientific tests used to determine the origin of such fall-out; if not, why not. 
Can the Prime Minister explain why the Government permits a full-scale trade boycott of France for exploding a clean bomb and at the same time enters into a most favoured nation trade agreement with China, presumably for exploding a dirty one. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to a full page advertisement in this morning's Press calling for assistance and support for the persecuted Russian dissidents Solzhenitsyn, Sakharov and others? I assure the Minister that I had nothing to do with the advertisement. Will he act immediately to have discussions with  Mr Whitlam  upon this matter which I raised with him during the adjournment debate last night and upon which he gave me such a courteous hearing? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I will move: 
That this Senate recognising that the question of human rights is a matter of universal significance, believes there is prima facie' evidence to support allegations by Alexander Solzhenitsyn and Andrei Sakharov that human rights of political dissidents are being abrogated inside the Soviet Union and resolves that this question should be referred to the Human Rights Committee of the United Nations for examination. 
Contingent upon the above resolution being passed by the Senate and Contingent upon the Federal Government not having already referred the matter to the United Nations, the Senate directs the  President  of the Senate to refer the resolution forthwith to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he and the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  were present at the July conference of the Australian Labor Party at Surfers Paradise. At that conference or on any other occasion did the Minister and the Prime Minister meet and have discussions with an African guerrilla leader called Eddison Zvobgo? Was Zvobgo present at the conference by invitation? If so, whose? Is the Minister aware that a report in the 'Australian' of 10 July 1973 in relation to Zvobgo stated: 
He said the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  and the Federal Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  had assured him the Federal Government was willing to do everything in its power to aid a black revolution aimed at the overthrow  or  the Smith regime. 
If those words of Zvobgo are true and correctand that is the purpose of my query because I do not know whether they are or not- will the Minister explain this breach of section 30 of the Crimes Act? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Government send delegates or observers to the Conference of Non-Aligned Nations held at Algiers in early September 1973; if so, who were they. 
Did those persons take any part in the discussions at Algiers, or issue any statement for publicity during the visit. 
Were any discussions conducted by those persons with President Tito of Yugoslavia. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Is it not a fact that recently the Government knowingly admitted entrance to Australia without question a communist terrorist, one Tariq Ali? Is it not a fact that Tariq Ali came to Australia to raise money for the Black September Movement? Is it not also a fact that the present Government is now acutely aware of the possibility of terrorist activity in Australia by the Black September Movement against such distinguished personages as the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General and the  Hon.  Moss Cass? Will the Attorney-General reassure the Senate by indicating that all proper protection will be afforded to these personages until the danger has passed- not necessarily by providing a helicopter as was provided for  Mr Bijedic? 
I ask the Minister for the Media whether he is aware that the South Australian Government has appointed a Canadian,  Mr Richard  Smith, to its Film Corporation, his function being to cut foreign film monopolies down to size. Will the Minister explain to the Senate the difference in function between the South Australian Film Corporation and his own Australian Film Development Corporation? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDFirstly, I understand that a  Mr Smith,  a former officer of the Canadian Film Board, has been appointed by the South Australian Film Corporation to arrange the distribution of film for and on behalf of that Corporation. I am given to understand that  Mr Smith  arrived in Australia last week. The Australian Film Development Corporation, which is a statutory body coming within my Ministerial responsibility, was established by Act of Parliament in 1 970. It was established to encourage the production and distribution of Australian films. It is there to give assistance by way of loans, investment and, in some circumstances, grants. As I understand it, the South Australian Film Corporation is an organisation which has been established by the South Australian Government to try to develop within South Australia a film industry. While it does not of itself invest in the production of films I understand that it gives assignments on behalf of the South Australian Government to film producers. 
-I move: 
1 ) That this Senate, recognising that the question of human rights is a matter of universal significance, believes there is prima facie evidence to support allegations by Alexander Solzhenitsyn and Andrei Sakharov that human rights of political dissidents are being abrogated inside the Soviet Union, and resolves that this question should be referred to the Human Rights Committee of the United Nations for examination; and 
Contingent upon the above resolution being passed by the Senate, and contingent upon the Federal Government not having already referred the matter to the United Nations, the Senate directs the  President  of the Senate to refer the resolution forthwith to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. 
The moving of this motion gives the Senate an opportunity to strike a blow for real freedom, to break a lance with the controllers of a totalitarian dictatorship and to provide real and genuine help to men whose courage and fortitude almost defy description. It will be recalled that 8 days ago I asked the Government to refer the question of the persecution of Soviet dissidents to the United Nations. It would have been following the splendid precedent set by the LiberalCountry Party Government, which was successful in obtaining some small benefits for Soviet Jewry by referring that question to the United Nations, just on 11 years ago. So far I have had no response from the Government to my appeal. 
On the question of human rights, honourable senators might think it strange that a Government whose numbers rush in to wail about  Chile  before the facts are properly known, as  Senator Willesee  conceded this morning- I will have something to say about Chile on some other occasion- can raise no interest in the incredible position in 1973 of Soviet society. A Government which can welcome to our country such terrorists as Tariq Ali, Herbert Chitepo and Eddison Zvobgo can become almost apopleptic about excluding Rhodesian girl guides. I ask honourable senators opposite to imagine how indignant they would become if injections of halopiridol were being administered by wicked South African doctors to the black residents of that country. The Whitlam Government has become a whiffler for communist nations throughout the world. It must, it seems, of necessity be selective in its indignation. It rightly condemns the aspects of apartheid and decides that it is not an internal matter for  South Africa;  then it runs away from the question of Russian tyranny on the specious ground that it is an internal matter for the Soviet Union. Unfortunately it swallows all the diplomatic nonsense which is put out by the Soviet Union in respect of detente. 
To recapitulate briefly my remarks of last week- I do not want to go into them in detail again- Alexander Solzhenitsyn is a leading Soviet writer who is under almost unbelievable attacks in the Soviet Government controlled Press, radio and television. His stature is so great throughout the world that the Communist Government has hesitated to give him the normal treatment, that is, put him away. A Nobel 
Prize winner, he issued last year a series of statements criticising Soviet society, its tyranny and its conformism.  His  colleague, mentioned in this motion, one Andrei Sakharov, is the father of the Soviet hydrogen bomb. It might well be thought strange that we in the Australian Parliament seek to do something which could result in freedom for a man who gave the Soviet its most powerful weapon; and yet Sakharov has indicated clearly in his statements from behind the Iron Curtain that he is disgusted with Soviet society and the way in which it controls men's minds, and for that reason I have no hesitation in bracketing him with Solzhenitsyn in the resolution which is before this chamber. 
Sakharov has given some pretty remarkable interviews to Western journalists and because of his stature in Soviet society the Government has been afraid to silence him either. Here I must pay some tribute to the Australian Press and to the Press of the free world generally which has given these interviews pretty remarkable publicity. Almost all of the newspapers in Australia that I have checked have carried very large articles and very large excerpts from the interviews with Solzhenitsyn and Sakharov. The gravamen of these interviews is that intellectual freedom is nonexistent in the Soviet Union and anyone who criticises the Government is liable to imprisonment and, in many cases, to torture, the favourite method being the injection of excessive amounts of the drug halopiridol to cause depression and ultimately madness. Halopiridol is not a new drug. We have been using it under careful medical supervision in Australia for at least 15 years. Its effect is substantially that of a tranquilliser when it is administered in the proper fashion. Then when the psychotic has calmed down, the effect of the drug normally wears off. But administered in excessive quantities it brings about depression and lethargy and ultimately turns a man into a vegetable. 
I think that this is a new method of dealing with dissidents. In the past they were perhaps imprisoned or executed. But to turn men of stature into vegetables, to make them things of pity, is a new method which only the communist mind seems to have seized upon and to have regarded as more effective than actual execution. It is a particularly well recognised fact that in dealing with their citizens, communist governments concentrate particularly on writers and artists and those people who are capable of influencing public opinion. This happened in Czechoslovakia when Russian tanks rolled in there just over 5 years ago. The writers of Czechoslovakia where the first to be pilloried. In the Soviet Union we have seen the degrading spectacle of Dimitri Shostakovich, a name that will be familiar to all senators in this chamber as a very distinguished Russian composer, being compelled to write a letter to 'Pravda' in which he attacked his colleagues and his friends. One would have thought that Shostakovich might have shown the same moral fibre as Sakharov and Solzhenitsyn did but this was not to be. 
Solzhenitsyn, as I mentioned last week, in one of his interviews said: 
If I am killed or suddenly dead, you can infallibly conclude that I have been killed with the approval of the KGB. 
For a man known for his staid courage in the face of official isolation and propaganda hounding, these words are considered to be the words of almost final despair. We in this chamber tonight, one of the 2 chambers of the Australian Parliament, have an opportunity to register a protest that may ring around the world. The dissident community in the Soviet has been subjected to house searches and close surveillance and has seen its members dismissed from jobs, arrested, tried and committed to mental institutions or prisons. Two of its most distinguished members, Valery Chalidze and the biologist Zhores Medvedev have been allowed to travel outside Russia. When they left the country they were deprived of their citizenship and so prevented from returning. 1 will have a little more to say later about Major-General Pyotr Grigorenko. At the age of 65 he is slowly going blind in a prison mental hospital. According to Sakharov, he is receiving excessive doses of the drug halopiridol The writer Andre Amabrik was sentenced to 3 years in July of this year for anti-Soviet activities, consisting largely of writing what might be called a Russian '1984' predicting what the Soviet Union would be like in the future. For that he got 3 years. As if the 3 years was not enough, before his sentence was finished- I think only a few months of his sentence had run- he was given an additional 3 years for anti-Soviet activities inside a prison. A person has to be good to carry on anti-Soviet activities inside a Soviet prison, but that did not stop him getting an additional 3 years. 
The historian Ivan Dzvuba after having been held incommunicado for 1 1 months was sentenced in March to 5 years of forced labour and 5 years in exile. The biologist Vladimir Bukovsky, after having served 24 months in prison, was moved in the spring to a forced labour camp in the Urals. They do not go there for the sake of their health. Pyotr Yakir and Viktor Krasin are two of the intellectuals who had a certain amount of criticism to utter of the Soviet society. They have been tried for anti-Soviet utterances, and they have retracted what they said. They have confessed that they were naughty boys and that they spoke to correspondents from the West. They are serving a 3-year sentence. 
I think it is pretty obvious that lesser figures than Sakharov and Solzhenitsyn would not have been left at liberty for so long. The mere fact that they are still both out of prison- they are not actually free men- is due to some degree to protests from the West and is one of the matters which should encourage us to make sure that our protest is lodged. It should not be thought that the Soviet Union is entirely impervious to criticism from outside. It does not take much notice of criticism from inside, but criticism from outside is a matter which may well determine Soviet policy and Soviet activities. As the Manchester 'Guardian' said: 
If detente means that the West shuts its eyes to totalitarianism then the price is too high to pay. 
I come back to Grigorenko. He had a distinguished war career and is now a MajorGeneral. He did not quite accept the Soviet view on the conduct of World War II nor the amount of freedom which was available to people of intellectural attainments in the Soviet Union. For no valid reason he was slapped in prison and given excessive injections of halopiridol. I quote Solzhenitsyn on Grigorenko. He said: 
When from the ranks of our glittering and decorated Generals this lone Grigorenko appeared and was brave enough to express his non-conformist view about the course of the last War and about today's Soviet society- a view which was in fact strictly Marxist Leninist- then this view is declared a psychiatric insanity. 
The astonishing thing is that the mere fact that the man is in disagreement with the establishment in Russia is taken as grounds of insanity. This happened in 1969. It is only recently that the story of his imprisonment has come out. Previously, I mentioned Bukovsky who is serving 7 years in a psychiatric hospital. It is extraordinary that dissidents in the Soviet Union who receive treatment are not placed in an ordinary prison. One might think this would be the normal place to put people who break the law. But often they are put into mental asylums in order to degrade them and to make them a thing of pity- an abject vegetable. Amalrik, whom I mentioned earlier, and also Bukovsky were offered their freedom if they would confirm the convictions of 2 intellectuals, Yakir and Kruson. Both refused to accept the offer. I think that we must be very humble in the presence of such courage. Solzhenitsyn gives a list of names. I will not weary you,  Mr President,  by attempting to pronounce a whole series of Russian names of men who have suffered or who were persecuted for their dislike of Soviet tyranny. The list includes the names of Gabril Suferfin, Alexander Gorlov, Mstislav Rostropovich, Yakir, Kruson and Medvedev. Solzhenitsyn says that there are thousands of innocent, lesser victims who, because of the fact that they have no great standing in Soviet society, are not known to him by name nor to the outside world. 
One of the things that concerns people who worry about this type of matter is that so often when a complaint of a legitimate nature is brought up in this fashion some reference is made to some other country in which there is some evil. It is not necessarily as great an evil but it is some form of evil. If the Senate will bear with me for a while, I will go on to read from Solzhenitsyn 's comments on this type of person. He says: 
When at the end of the forties we were choked with 25-year terms, we only read in the papers about the unprecedented reprisals in Greece. Today in many of the statements from the Western Press and Western personalities even from those who are most sensitive to oppression and persecutions in the East, in order to create an artificial balance in the face of left-wing circles, there must always be the reservation: The same thing happens in Greece, Spain, Turkey. 
He goes on to say: 
I dare to declare that there is no such 'the same thing happens'. I dare make the observation that in all these countries violence does not reach the level of today's gas chambers, the prison psychiatric clinics. 
I dare observe that Greece is not surrounded by a concrete wall and with electronic murderers at the border, and young Greeks do not pass in hundreds over the lethal line with faint hope of ever reaching freedom. 
He continues his remarks. I will not read them in detail because they are rather lengthy. He outlines how horrible it is to live in a country where the radio broadcasts from foreign countries are jammed. He says: 
What jamming of radio broadcasts means is impossible to explain to those who haven't experienced it themselves, who haven't lived under it for years. It means daily spittle into your ears and eyes, it is an offence and degradation of man to a robot's level ... It means that grown persons are reduced to infants. 
Having read Solzhenitsyn 's views on those who attempt to equate the horrors, dangers and tyrannies of Russia with what happens in other countries it is interesting to note that when I raised this matter last week  Senator Poyser  came rushing in, boots and all, to talk about the Chilean situation and to suggest that Soviet Russia was not so bad after all because there may be something wrong in Chile. This is precisely the type of thing that Solzhenitsyn criticises and which he so rightly condemns. Even the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  did exactly the same thing during his Press conference last Tuesday. He passed a mild criticism of the communist system in Soviet Russia. But he had to drag in the Czars and say how bad things were under them. The Czars have been gone a long time. I think it is creating a most artificial situation to drag them in to this context. As some encouragement for the proposition that we are not beating the air in this motion I quote from one of these remarkable interviews. Solzhenitsyn said: 
However, international information, the ideas, facts and human protests that slip through after all have an influence. It is important to understand that the East is not at all indifferent to protests from public opinion in the West. On the contrary it has deadly fear of them and only of them. But this is the case only with the united mighty voice of hundreds of prominent personalities with the opinions of a whole continent. 

 Mr President, Australia is a whole continent. We are given an opportunity this evening to raise such a mighty roar that it will resound around the world. Solzhenitsyn then said: 
The Soviet authority may falter- but when timid isolated protests are heard without every belief in their success and with the compulsory reservations 'the same happens in Greece, Turkey and Spain', then this evokes only laughter of the aggressors. 
Later he said: 
One cannot accept that the disastrous course of history is impossible to undo- that a soul with confidence in itself cannot influence the most powerful force in the world. 
I do not think Government senators should allow Solzhenitsyn 's criticism of Australia's protests over nuclear testing to influence them adversely in any way. True it is he said that those protests were hypocritical and that our approach to the Chinese tests was in marked contrast to our approach to the French tests. But in this he was only expressing a point of view which many democratic people in this country hold. Talking about Australia, he said: 
They protest and support one side (the left) whatever it does and kick always the other side, the one which nourishes them. 
I want to go back and refer to that last sentence which states: , 
. and kick always the other side, the one which  i  nourishes them. 
How true that has been, unfortunately, of the foreign policy of this Government since 2 December. Because I do not want to be diverted from the main train of my argument I will not run through that foreign policy. But is not what Solzhenitsyn has been saying exactly what we have been saying since 2 December? I understand from Press reports that  Sir Keith  Waller is visiting Moscow to discuss the Soviet plan for collective security in Asia. What an opportunity this would have been for any worthwhile Government to raise with the Soviet the question of the Soviet dissidents. One of things which the Western world has- I am not referring specifically to Australia in this connection- is an abundance of advanced technology. In our case we also have considerable quantities of raw materials. We have many things-I use the word things' in a generic sense- which the Soviet needs and covets. Perhaps it would have been an exercise in statesmanship if we, or the Americans or the British has said: 'All right, we will go along with you but we want to see that human rights are freed inside your country.' We have said it, and in many cases said it justly, to countries where the black population is subjected to indignities and injustices. We have rightly criticised those countries. It seems to me that we should also take this view not only in regard to the Soviet dissidents but in regard to the 148 million people locked at the moment behind the Iron Curtain in Eastern Europe. 
On 1 1 September Sakharov telephoned London Television and I want to quote from the television program. He said: 
It was important that people in the West should help. It is my duty to speak out. It was easier for me than for others. I know the risks I am taking. 
I want to repeat that last sentence: 
I know the risks I am taking. I know where I am going. It is important that the West should know what is happening in the Soviet Union. 
His final sentence was: 
It is important that the West should help. 
At least this evening the Senate has some chance to offer some help. The 'Sydney Morning Herald ' of 1 1 September also points out that there is plenty of evidence that international criticism is taken seriously inside the Soviet Union. Firstly, there is the speed and strength of Soviet replies to foreign and domestic critics and, secondly, there is the decision to allow thousands of Soviet Jews to migrate. The 'Sydney Morning Herald' says that without foreign pressure this could never have happened. This confirmation makes Sakharov 's claim that sane political prisoners are being treated with drugs in mental hospitals to impair their mental efficiency of greater than normal significance. 
We are not alone in our endeavours in moving this motion. The United States Senate is debating the matter. We do not know what conclusion it will arrive at. I am informed that the British psychiatrists visiting Georgia, Russia, next month for the international psychiatrists conference have been asked to demand inspection of these mental detainees. Two American Cabinet Ministers- that is the nearest approach I can get to their status- have indicated to Russia that arrangements, presumably made with  President  Nixon when Brezhnev was in the United States recently, might well not be carried out unless there was some liberalisation of the condition of dissidents inside the Soviet Union. In Sakharov 's interview on 9 September which he gave in defiance of the Soviet authorities he listed a dozen sane dissidents who are being held in asylums. Of course he also asked the visiting psychiatrists to be allowed to inspect these dissident mental patients. He claimed that they were being treated with the depressant drug to which I have already referred which impairs their mental faculties. He said that he could not hear without horror of the fate of political dissidents placed in mental asylums. He accused Professor Snezhevsky, head of the Psychiatric Department of the Soviet Academy of Science, of taking part in the committing of these crimes. Yury Shikanovich, a well known dissident, has been put into an asylum as well. Sakharov called for a Red Cross inquiry to examine his case. He wound up by saying: 'Let their presence result in the removal of the inhuman shutters on the windows of Soviet prisons'. 
As I mentioned earlier all sorts of moral pressures have been exerted on these men. I have referred to the case of Shostakovich. There was another writer whose name, for the moment escapes me. They were compelled to write to Pravda' denouncing their fellow intellectuals. I do not want to get too political on this but I think it is impossible to conclude this subject without contrasting the Government's refusal to act in this matter with what happens when Marxist communists are in trouble. Earlier in my remarks I referred to the Allende-Chile matter. A little over a month ago I received a handbill in my mail. I have it here. It states: 
Public Meeting 
Protest the Repression in France 
On June 28 the French Government banned the Ligue Communiste and so on and so forth. One does not have to be Mandrake to guess the names of the sponsors of this protest against French repression of the Communist Party, the Fourth International. I will not offer a prize but obviously  Dr Jim  Cairns is one of the sponsors. 
His name is here. I am not assassinating anyone. 
I understand that he is a Minister in this Government. I thought that  Senator Brown  would have had more sense, but, regrettably, his name also appears on this handbill as one of the sponsors. But no one will be surprised - 
I would rather be in the CIA than in the KGB or the UDBA. The third sponsor of this attempt to help the Fourth International Communist Party is that gallant fighter for civil rights around the world,  Senator George  Poyser- the gentleman who came rushing into the chamber the other night to defend the Marxist  President  Allende of Chile. I think I have said enough and adduced enough to indicate that there is at least a prima facie case of repression and torture of dissidents in the tyranny that is known as the Soviet system. Maurice Latey is a political commentator who would be well known to honourable senators opposite. He was formerly head of the British Broadcasting Commission's East European service and he is now editor of the British Broadcasting Commission's talks and external services department. I am indebted to him, and I shall quote from him fairly copiously when he comments on the communist system. He said: 
For freedom remains, as it always has been, the main revolutionary force in the world today. For a time this was obscured by the appearance of communist dictatorship as the main source of revolutionary ideas; but communism has only been able to extend beyond the tanks of the Red Army where it has allied or identified itself with a national liberation movement. As a social doctrine it has become reactionary. The Metternichs of the twentieth century who attempt to stifle ideas with censorship and secret police are to be found above all in the communist States. A twentieth century Karl Marx would, if he were honest, have to say in his manifesto- 
Honourable senators opposite will be familiar with the way in which the communist manifesto begins; it was written in 1848 and begins with the words 'a spectre is haunting Europe, the spectre of communism'- a spectre is haunting Eastern Europe, the spectre of freedom". 
I am indebted to Latey 's recent work entitled Tyranny- A Study in the Abuse of Power' which was published earlier this year. Finally, no one knows better than you,  Mr President,  that history does not support the view that truth and justice always triumph. If these courageous Soviet dissidents receive no help or encouragement from outside they will simply perish, and to that extent all mankind is diminished. I appeal to honourable senators in the Government Party to join with us in registering a mighty and indignant protest- a rising crescendo of challenge- that will ring around the world and be taken straight to the heart of the United Nations. Do not let us muddy up this issue with political arguments. I have been as restrained as it was possible for me tobe. 
I would not have put it that way, but I accept the accolade. I appeal to honourable senators opposite to join with us in something - 
These are the united parties of  Her  Majesty's Opposition, if it interests the honourable senator. Please do not be flippant. Do not dismiss this as some idle curiosity. It should appeal to the heart of any democrat that he is given the opportunity, through the safety of these plush red seats, to issue a protest and a challenge that may well result in benefit to courageous people many thousands of miles away. Please God, this protest will ring around the Soviet Union and may spring the traps which imprison so many courageous men. 

 -Mr President, am I in order at this stage of the evening in correcting a Press misstatement? 
Yes, I have been misrepresented. Last Thursday night in the course of my remarks about Russian dissidents I made certain statements about the treatment of these people which were reported the following day in the 'Age ' newspaper. That report was substantially correct and I have no quibble with most of it. However the report did state: 
To make men of stature into vegetables is a new method which only the Russian mind seems to have seized upon. 
In truth and in fact I did not say 'only the Russian mind'. What I said is borne out by Hansard which states: 
But to turn men of stature into vegetables, to make them things of pity, is a new method which only the communist mind seems to have seized upon . . . 
I merely want this correction recorded in Hansard. Whilst I have nothing but detestation for the communist system, I have a very high regard for the Russian people. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister who is in charge of the Council of the Arts and bears in some degree on what  Senator Laucke  has already said. Is the Minister aware that despite the price of the painting, competent art critics have described this painting as a string of dark blue poles interspersed with dribs and drabs? Is the Minister aware that the purchase has been trenchantly criticised by such notable art figures as  Sir William  Dargie,  Sir Daryl  Lindsay and  Mr Andrew  Sibley? In retrospect, does the Minister not agree that the Government would have been wiser to spend this vast sum on another new hospital in Parramatta rather than on the purchase of this painting? 
-in reply- I merely want to say that the bi-partisan nature of this debate has been refreshing. I thank all honourable senators on both sides of the chamber for the spirit in which they have entered into the debate and indicated their support for the motion on human rights in the Soviet Union. As  Senator Durack  has said, the proposal to act in this fashion is a novel one, and the virtually unanimous voice of this Senate must certainly have an impact far above the partisan expression of political divisions. To an honourable senator opposite who suggested that this matter had been brought up for political propaganda purposes, I say here and now that that is not the case. The motion was brought forward in the hope that from the security of this chamber we might be able to send help to a number of incredibly courageous men. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Unfortunately I cannot accept the well-intended amendment moved by  Senator Milliner.  The reason is obvious. The debate which has taken place has been concerned entirely with specific matters raised by Solzhenitsyn and Sakharov. To broaden my motion in the well-intended way in which  Senator Milliner  has moved to do would destroy the whole impact of the proposal before the chamber. I have no doubt that in the future there will be plenty of opportunities for the examination of human rights in other countries. For the reasons I have given I am unable to accept the amendment. I do not cavil at the word requests' being substituted for the word 'directs' if the honourable senator thinks it is more appropriate. However, I cannot accept the gravamen of the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 

 - Mr President, I intended to reply to the debate very briefly. 
No, I merely spoke to the amendment. 
Does the AttorneyGeneral recall that during his statement on alleged Croatian terrorism some months ago he mentioned the name of one Josip Devic charged with unlawful possession of explosives at Warrandyte with 2 other men? Is it not a fact that two of these men are now living openly in Tito's Belgrade? Is it not a fact that Devic has disappeared? Is it not a fact that  Mr Davis,  the Commonwealth Police Commissioner, stated on oath last month that the Commonwealth Police and the Victorian Police knew of Devic 's whereabouts? As Devic's family has contacted me and advised me that the Victorian Police have no knowledge of Devic's whereabouts, will the Attorney-General ask the Commonwealth Police, as an exercise in humanitarianism, to pass a message to Devic asking him to contact his parents as they are afraid that he may have been kidnapped by the Yugoslav secret police? 

 -Mr President, I address my question to your august self. I refer to the resolution passed unanimously in the Senate on 
Thursday 27 September dealing with the question of the abrogation of the civil rights of dissidents within the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Would this be a convenient time for you to inform the Senate of the action taken by you upon such resolution and the answer, if any, which may have been received in relation thereto? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as a great humanitarian. Is he aware that there is an industrial dispute at Melbourne's largest brewery, that the supply of 90 per cent of the beer in Melbourne has been cut off and that many hotels are now 'pubs with no beer'? Is he aware that current reports in Melbourne indicate that the R. J. Hawke Hotel and the John Curtin Hotel have ample supplies? Will he use his influence to ensure that drinkers who are of other political persuasions are able to be reasonably satisfied? 
Does the Leader of the Government recall the advice given to the Senate yesterday by the  President  that he had referred to the Human Rights Committee of the United Nations the unanimous Senate resolution on the abrogation of the civil right of Soviet dissidents? Does the Minister recall that the  President  also indicated that the Human Rights Committee received some thousands of resolutions every year. In view of the universal support given to this resolution by the Senate- it was a unanimous vote- will the Minister arrange for the Government to direct our ambassador to the United Nations,  Sir Lawrence  Mclntyre, to press this resolution as a matter of extreme urgency? 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to this morning's Press reports that Great Britain is supplying a large number of helicopters to Egypt and is training 50 pilots for the same? I understand that these helicopters are not required for crop dusting. In view of Prime Minister Whitlam 's statement that Australia is neutral in the terrible Middle East conflict, will the Prime Minister protest to the British Government that this action would seem to be a breach of neutrality and would seem to be supporting the Egyptians against the Israelis? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate, in the absence of the Minister for the Media, whether it is a fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission is precluded from accepting purely advertising matter. If so, can the Minister explain to the Senate why last weekend 'Four Corners ' devoted 1 0 to 15 minutes of its precious time to publicising the birth of a new porno-type publication- I will not mention its name- controlled by one Gordon Barton? It is a paper designed, on its editor's statements, to carry advertisements, inter alia, for homosexuals, call girls, strippers, massage parlours and the rest. If such a publication deserves such lavish free advertising on the ABC and actual encouragement from the compere, can the Minister explain why the recent birth of a respectable weekend publication jointly by Melbourne's established Press passed without notice by the ABC? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate the following question: As I have received no answer to my urgent question requesting the Government to instruct  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre to intervene in the United Nations on behalf of the Senate's unanimous resolution on Soviet dissidents, when may I and the whole Senate expect an answer? In view of the urgent nature of this matter I especially ask the Minister to proceed as speedily as possible before the matter recedes so far into history as to be no more relevant than Caesar's Gallic wars. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General and refer to allegations of Croatian terrorism made in this Parliament in recent months. I ask the Minister whether, among other items in the highly publicised dawn raids in Sydney on Croatian homes on 1 April last, 6 men were charged with possession of dynamite and explosives. Is it a fact that the charges against four- Blaz Basic, Tomo Juricic Slavo Tokic and Jerko Ravenjak- were completely dismissed by the court and that the charges in respect of the other two brought trifling suspended sentences. Is the Minister aware that, in dismissing three of the other charges against Ravenjak,  Mr Justice  Leslie said that his arrest was illegal? Is the Minister aware that because of high legal fees paid to lawyers in New South Wales, of which the Minister would be personally aware, these Croatians have expended several thousand dollars merely to establish their innocence? Although I know that the Crown does not normally pay costs- I concede that point- in view of the overwhelming failure of this whole group of prosecutions, amounting almost, one might say, to an abuse of process, will the Attorney-General recommend the making of some ex gratia payment to these men? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that, on 1 1 October 1973,  Senator Hannan  asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate to have the Minister direct Australia's Ambassador to the United Nations,  Sir Laurence  McIntyre, to press, as a matter of urgency, for an examination of the Senate's unanimous Resolution on the abrogation of human rights of Soviet dissidents. 
As  Sir Laurence  McIntyre is the acting  Chairman  of the Security Council, will the Minister have him press this matter at this opportune time, although it will not be dealt with by the Council. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Does he know that  Dr Cairns  in another place has claimed that his wheat agreement with Red China could only be for 3 years because the Chinese would deal only with a Labor government? If this claim is true, how does the Minister explain the enormous sales to China by a Liberal-Country Party Government between 1966 and 1970? If true, does the Government's obsequious acceptance of such a condition condone a serious interference by China in Australia's internal affairs? Does this condition by China amount to an external support for the present ailing Government, enable China to dictate items of policy and account for some of the extraordinary votes of this Government at the United Nations? 
I ask: Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware of the general hostility and aversion felt by the man in the street, his wife, and the small shopkeeper in particular, to the use of metric units for weights and measures- very different from the general acceptance of decimal currency? Is he aware that the general public believes that the promised advantages have not materialised and that grams, millilitres and kilometres are mysterious? Is he aware of the clumsy units which have been forced upon the public- for example, a 26-oz bottle of beer has become a 740-millilitre bottle of beer and no litre bottles will be made? Also, how many metres are in a cricket pitch? Is he aware that metric units are being used to bolster inflation both in private industry and in the Post Office? Will the Minister re-examine the position and ascertain whether this extremely expensive decision could, even at this very late hour, be reversed? 
I wish to direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. During the absence of  Senator Willesee  I directed questions to the Leader of the Government concerning our resolution on Russian dissidents. I ask  Senator Murphy  if he will accept a compliment and I would ask him, if he would, to convey to the Prime Minister in his capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs appreciation for the speed with which the Australian Ambassador to the United Nations,  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre, has been instructed to bring to the attention of the Secretary-General of the United Nations the terms of the Senate resolution of 27 September concerning political dissidents in the Union of Soviet Socialists Republics. 
-Clause 64 alters the basis on which objections to amalgamations can be made. It imposes very heavy restrictions on the grounds on which these objections can be made and allows the introduction of certain injustices in the sense that changes in the rules could have a significant effect on members. The changed rules could be discriminatory and other organisations could be affected. Perhaps the reason why the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  has suggested that clauses 64 to 69 be taken together is that in essence they constitute the charter for control of amalgamations. So far as the Opposition is concerned, amalgamations in themselves are neither good nor bad, but they are matters which if they are conducted have to be conducted with justice and propriety. 
I will not repeat the figures that I have given in this chamber on more than one occasion on the scandal surrounding the Amalgamated Metalworkers Union, a union which now has 183,000 members and an income running to over Sim. This amalgamation was brought about by a vote of an insignificant number of members of the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society of Australia and Sheet Metalworking Union of Australia who conducted the ballot without the control of the court or the electoral officer. I will not go into specific details but the Committee may recall that the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society at the time of this amalgamation had approximately 32,000 members. Only 21,783 received ballot papers. Approximately one-third of the members either did not receive or were not posted ballot papers. The way in which the ballot was conducted was that batches of papers were sent out to the shop stewards on the boilermaking jobs and it was left to the discretion and honesty of these gentlemen to ensure that all members of the union on the job received a ballot paper. Without making any suggestions against the integrety of these gentlemen, that type of unsupervised ballot is utterly unsatisfactory where rights of such significance are involved. 
The original provisions which were laid down in what has been rather disparingly and quite unfairly called 'Lynch law' which was introduced last year provided a proper protection for rank and file members so that their assets, rights and union connections could not be disposed of without a substantial vote of the people concerned. If this legislation were allowed to go through unchallenged it would be technically possible- I know it is unlikely- for an amalgamation to be brought about by the vote of 2 members. One has only to recite that to indicate how necessary it is that the protection given under the existing legislation be not removed. 
I move now to clause 65 on the assumption that we are dealing with these clauses at the one time in order to save popping up and down. Clause 65 repeals substantially the protection contained in existing section 158k. The Opposition opposes it for the reasons which I have given. There is a real need to reduce the opportunity for abuses and we believe that the ballot should be conducted by the electoral officer. Clause 66 repeals the requirements to gazette dates for ballots and other matters. The Committee will recall that on one famous occasion notifications of proposed amalgamations were gazetted for Christmas Day. This is not the day upon which the normal rank and file member of a union sits around reading the Gazette. There are other things to do on Christmas Day than worry about amalgamations. 
I am prepared to debate that matter on a different occasion but I think it is out of place to introduce it in a debate on industrial legislation. The Minister's Government has a most obnoxious record in regard to the raiding of persons' homes at midnight. 
With policemen dressed in boiler suits conducting all sorts of raids and all sorts of physical exercises - 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Minister noticed passing Press reference to the fact that the Prime Minister recently visited mainland China in a chartered Qantas Boeing 707 aircraft? I ask the Minister to advise the Senate of the number of people, other than crew members, who accompanied the Prime Minister on this visit. What are the names and official functions of all such persons? Is it a fact that 2 such persons who accompanied the Prime Minister are actually newspaper executives, not mere reporters, namely, John Menadue, General Manager of the Murdoch empire and News Ltd, and  Mr Farrell,  Editorial Manager of John Fairfax and Sons Ltd and the 'Sydney Morning Herald'? Is it a fact that the editor of the Melbourne 'Age',  Mr Perkin,  declined an invitation on the ground that it probably would compromise his position as editor of an independent newspaper? If  Mr Perkin  's objection is valid, can the Minister advise the Senate where a fair non-oleaginous report of this visit can be obtained? 
I want to take a few moments to rebut some of the matters raised by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  in relation to these clauses. It is simply not true that the Industrial Court found completely against Drinkwater and the other gentleman whose name for the moment escapes me. It was argued there that a ballot conducted in accordance with the rules of the union was an adequate ballot within the meaning of regulation 138 ( 1 ) (c); and in truth the mere fact that the union rules were somewhat rugged was not a matter which could be examined by the court at the time Drinkwater 's application was made. I have here a reference to the decision of the court in the matter of the application for the cancellation of registration of the Sheetmetal Working, Agricultural Implements and Stovemaking Industrial Union of Australia. The court comprised Spicer, C.J., Dunphy, J. and Smithers, J. In paragraph (B) of its finding, the court said this: 
Regulation 1 38 ( 1 ) (c)  or  the Conciliation and Arbitration regulations on its true construction does require that the Sheetmetal Working, Agricultural Implement and Stovemakin Industrial Union of Australia conducting a ballot of its members as provided in that regulation conduct a ballot of all its members. 
Having said that, by some indescribable act of mental acrobatics- and I have no hesitation whatever in criticising the validity and logic of the court's decision- it then found - 
Yes, I certainly criticise the court's decision. It is not sacrosanct. The honourable senator has done so more than once. I just do not agree with it and I cannot help but feel that perhaps an appropriate appeal might have yielded a different end result. One of the matters raised by the applicant in Drinkwater's case was that he complained that the union had not conducted a ballot- that the rules did not provide adequate grounds for conducting a proper ballot to determine either cancellation or amalgamation. The court found- and I think that in this regard the court was correct- that the governing body of the union had implied authority to choose the means by which it conducted it as fully and effectively as if expressed provision were made to that effect. Having read the first reference to regulation 138, the court then said: 
The amalgamation ballot paper shall be posted to each member of the union. 
Each member of the union. It is not alleged that ballot papers were sent to each member of the union and I am simply not going to explore that matter any further. How the court arrived at the result it did in the uncontested statement of fact I just do not know. It is not likely that a union so full of integrity as  Senator Cavanagh  suggests would dare to mislead the Australian Council of Trade Unions when it says it has 32,000 members and then allege that it has notified all its members and sent them ballot papers when it sends out only 2 1 ,000 papers. 
Yes, the court says that the union should send notices to unfinancial members. I will read that excerpt to the honourable senator in a moment. Is the honourable senator going to agree with that part of the court's decision? 
I am glad that the honourable senator accepts the court's decision in regard to that. I am not going to explore this very much further because in this particular amalgamation the matter is a dead issue. But I want to direct  Senator Cavanagh  's attention to this nonsense about demarcation disputes. The allegation that the amalgamation of unions will reduce demarcation disputes is sheer nonsense. Most of the disputes or at least as many disputes now occur inside unions as to who should be doing certain jobs as occur between competing unions. If  Senator Cavanagh  cares to examine the agreement between the Boilermakers Society, the Sheetmetal Workers Union and the Amalgamated Engineering Union he will find that clause 9, 1 think it is, provides for the procedure to be followed in demarcation disputes. So if the Government is going to eliminate demarcation disputes by permitting amalgamations, why on earth would the unions put such a clause into their agreement? It is absolute nonsense. I want to go back to one other matter.  Senator Cavanagh  said that I have not shown any interest in this legislation at any time. If he really wants to do a little bit of research he will find that on every occasion that I have been in this chamber when this legislation has come before the Senate I have made a statement with respect to amalgamations. 
And on other aspects of it. It is quite unwise for  Senator Cavanagh  to take a point of view that he and members on his side are the only active trade unionists in this chamber. They are not. Some of my colleagues, who are not here with me at the moment, are financial members of unions. 
Do you mean to what union do I belong? 
-The Australian Workers Union. I know that. That is a shade to the right of where the honourable senator would like to go. But they are in the Australian Workers Union. If what  Senator Cavanagh  says about the solution of industrial disputes were a valid and genuine exercise of the Government's activities he would be able to answer why the Government wants to repeal Part X of the Act. If ever a part of the Act was designed to stop people brawling it is Part X- and of course when this legislation came before us on the last occasion the Government wanted to repeal Part X. So a great deal of humbug and unnecessary nonsense is spoken about these matters and the sooner the Government accepts the sincerity and the value of the Opposition's amendment to this section of the legislation the sooner the rest of the Act can come into law and do such good as the Government hopes it will do. 
I wish to correct one or two statements which were made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh).  It is untrue to say that no one on this side is a member of a trade union. My recollection is that  Senator Bonner  is a member of the Australian Workers Union. I have been a member of Actors Equity for 1 7 years. 
-For the benefit of  Senator McLaren,  I produce my current membership card. I also produce my Australian Council of Trade Unions card which entitles me to shop at  Mr Hawke  's store- Bourkes. If any further vindication of a man's bona fides as a trade unionist is required, I would like to know it. 
I believe that I am. I scarcely miss a meeting, if that interests the honourable senator. I deal now with a couple of matters which were referred to by  Senator Cavanagh.  I know that he did not mean them seriously. He said that I have an obsession about the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. The reason why I direct such attention to that Union is that in my view- I still hold the view, regardless of what the court said- the amalgamation was such an extraordinary example. I advise my friend,  Senator James  McClelland, that I disagreed with  Mr Lynch  at the time that he made the speech to which the honourable senator referred, and I said so in this chamber. So there is nothing new in what the honourable senator has put to me.  Mr Morgan,  who was accepting the amalgamation with such facilityhe found it so easy to accept the amalgamationwas in the course of making a sweetheart arrangement with the metal trades unions. How dare he attack his masters and tell them that he was not happy with what they were doing! If  Mr Morgan  had read the statement made by the Assistant Secretary in Sydney a month or so after the amalgamation in which worker control of jobs and a number of other communist proposals were put forward by the Assistant Secretary I feel sure that he would have been less than happy with the end result of this amalgamation.  Senator James  McClelland referred to outside influences dictating the activities of Drinkwater and his colleague. I refer him to the genuine sinister outside influences which have been the real motivating factor behind the amalgamation of the heavy unions in Australia. When this debate began I said that there could well be reason why some of the 3 1 6 trade unions in Australia should amalgamate with one another. There could be benefits to the members and to industry. 
I said that there was some. Amalgamation in itself is neither good, bad nor indifferent. It is the way in which it takes place to which I take exception. Of course, Sharkey, who would be no stranger to honourable senators, said in his book: 'We must destroy the craft unions. We want to move to a setup of industrial unionism'. The position has been reached where a union of the size, power and wealth- I emphasise the word 'wealth'- of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union has been able to dictate to a potential Prime Minister. In other words, it has been able to say to him: 'We will give you $25,000 for the election campaign but you have to promise that there will be no prosecutions under the penal clauses'. If that is not size dictating to what ultimately, through some perverse decision of the electorate, became the Leader of the present Government, I would like to know what it is. 
By implication, yes. He has been in office for nearly 12 months. He has had nearly 12 months in which to launch any prosecutions. 
Of course he accepted the money. Most of the wealthy organisations of this country were beguiled into supporting the Australian Labor Party at the last election. Far from being the representatives of the downtrodden and oppressed the Labor Party became the representatives of wealthy industry. For every supporter who was horny handed it had two who wore horny spectacles. (Honourable senators interjecting)- 
I do not want to interrupt those honourable senators who are interjecting,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  but I would like to go on for just a few moments more. We had the extraordinary situation of  Senator James  McClelland saying that silence gives consent. He would know very well from his extensive law practice that when someone refuses to plead the court enters a plea of not guilty; in other words, it is a negation. He would also be familiar with the trial of St Thomas More, who remained silent. 
It is one of the  most famous silences in history. That is why I thought  Senator James  McClelland would have knowledge of it. In refusing to say anything, silence was pleaded by him as a negation. There are a couple of other minor matters to which I wish to draw  Senator Cavanagh  's attention. He would be as aware as anyone else in this chamber of the difficulty Drinkwater and his colleague had in bringing legal proceedings against a wealthy organisation. Let there be no mistake about the wealth of the organisation against which an ordinary rank and file member finds himself pitted. It seemed to me to be a travesty of justice that the  Deputy  Registrar refused to give assistance in the first instance. I think it is to the credit of this Government that that injustice was ultimately remedied. 
We will go into that at some other time when we are dealing not with the whole of the Bill but only the actual decision. The rules of the boilermakers' organisation at that time provided that 55 per cent of those voting could effect the cancellation of the registration and an amalgamation with the takeover union- the Amalgamated Engineering Union. 
I prefer the term takeover'. It is more accurate. 
It is more descriptive and more accurate. If the Government's position in respect to this Bill were to be sustained it would simply mean that a meeting of 3 members, two of whom voted in favour, could deregister a union and make arrangements for amalgamation. That is just too silly to be put forward seriously by men as experienced in the trade union movement as  Senator Cavanagh. 
-But at present 50 per cent have to vote. That means that at least 25 per cent of the membership- 25 per cent plus 1- have to be in favour of amalgamation. I regard that as being a substantial reflection of the views of a union. There are reasons why a unionist cannot vote on a particular occasion, such as absence on holidays and some fault in the delivery of mail. 

 - Senator McManus said that some may not get a ballot paper posted to them. I realise that we are not dealing with that aspect now. Therefore I do not want to say a great deal about it.  Senator Cavanagh,  in response to my comments concerning Part X, said that it is never used. It is rarely used, but when it is used it is used with effect. 
Let me see. About 6 or 7 months ago the professional scientists and engineers used it more successfully in obtaining what turned out in the long run to be a proper award. It was done by amicable negotiation under Part X. Part X may not do any good but it certainly does not do any harm. Why not leave the provision in the legislation, even if iris used only 6 times in 10 years. 
I know. I admit that it was wrong of me to digress too much on Part X but, as it had been mentioned, I thought I should point out the success of the professional engineers in recent months. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer the Minister to the recent unanimous resolution of this Senate dealing with the abrogation of human rights of Soviet dissidents. I refer also to the Minister's written answer to my question last Thursday week, that pursuant to my request the Government had directed our Ambassador to the United Nations,  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre, to place the resolution before the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations. Can the Minister now inform the Senate what has transpired in respect of such direction to  Sir Laurence?  Has the resolution been examined by the United Nations? 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to this full page advertisement in last week's 'Australian' for the so-called World Council of Peace Forces? I inform the Minister that the full page advertisement is embellished with a large photograph of Leonid Brezhnev wearing 2 medals- presumably peace medals for Czechoslovakia and Hungary- but it carries no authorisation or name of the person or organisation responsible for the advertisement. In view of the Government's professed worry about the influence of multi-national corporations in Australia, will the Minister take appropriate action to ensure that those responsible for peddling far more dangerour wares- namely, dishonest communist propaganda- are compelled to disclose their identity by statement or authorisation? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  is a member of the Order of the Collar of St Agatha of Patemo an award conferred by the Republic of Chile? If so, when was such honour conferred and who was the Head of the Chilean Government at the time? On what occasions does the Prime Minister wear the decoration? Does the Spanish word 'grandissimo ' appear anywhere on the Order's medallion? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer him to his answer to me last week when he undertook to consider the question of Leonid Brezhnev's full page advertisement in the 'Australian' being inserted without any authorisation or acknowledgment. Is he aware that the text of the advertisement is, word for word, though with some rearrangement, what appeared in the Soviet News Bulletin' published by the Press office of the Soviet Embassy in Canberra? Does the Minister not agree that it is highly undesirable that communist propaganda or any totalitarian propaganda be published in Australia without the public knowing who was responsible for authorising it? Does he not agree that this proposal is the very antithesis of political censorship? Does he not agree that this Government would take precipitate action if it were suspected that political propaganda was inserted in Australian newspapers without acknowledgment by Rhodesian or South African authorities? 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he has calmed down. 
I want to take the opportunity presented by the Supply Bill to refer to some other matters of public moment. I refer firstly to the recent visit of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to China. Since his return, with the assistance of the media, that visit has been surrounded with such an atmosphere of euphoria that anyone who criticises it, despite giving date, time, place, chapter and verse of criticism, is regarded merely as a knocker. 
No, I have not. 
I am sure it would have been astronomical. I have a question on notice as to the cost of charter of the Boeing 707 aircraft, its passengers and the purpose for which they were taken. One of the significant aspects of the visit, it will be recalled, is the fact that the Prime Minister thought it desirable to take with him not mere reporters, not people who sit up in galleries and run around both ends of the House, but actual newspaper executives to ensure that this phoney atmosphere of euphoria was created on their return. Whilst I am no admirer of the Melbourne 'Age', at least the editor of that newspaper had the integrity to say that he would not go because it might compromise his independence. 
-I thought  Senator O'Byrne  said that he might have been looking for a job with this Government. I understand they are going plenteously. We are told that thousands of cheering men, women and children lined the streets of Peking, presumably shouting Vive l'Emperor' or 'Vive Whitlame', or whatever way one says it. 
Conscripts, as  Senator McManus  reminds me. Only one correspondent that I know had the honesty to point out that the following day an identical reception was given to the gentleman from the Congo, or perhaps I should say Zaire. 
My recollection is that it was  Mr Oakes  of the Melbourne 'Sun'. That is purely from memory. I may be giving him an accolade to which he is not entitled. I do not know. The Prime Minister has an oleaginously servile approach to Red China. Australia is losing its best friends. We go around insulting them and then say that is strengthening our relationship with them and is intended to make us better friends. We cannot be trusted any more in South East Asia. I am reminded of the excessive subservience which this Government pays to the United Nations. From memory I think there are 138 nations now comprising the Ceneral Assembly of the United Nations. It is dominated by countries with an anti-western approach.  Mr Abba  Eban, the outspoken Israeli Foreign Minister, said the other day that if an Arab country gets up in the General Assembly of the United Nations and alleges that the world is square he starts off with 40 votes. 
Under this Government in 10 or 1 1 months we have lost every shred of independence in our foreign policy. We are no longer a middle power firmly associated in ideology and integrity with the western approach but have become the running dogs of  Chairman  Mao or, if not  Chairman  Mao, the running dogs of the so-called third world. I know that people have short memories, but I want to go back to 27 July 1971 to a statement made by the then Leader of the Opposition, the present Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam.  On 27 July 1971  Mr Whitlam  said: 'Labour will not dump Taiwan'. That statement proves that the present Prime Minister is politically untrustworthy, politically unreliable and a man upon whose word politically no account can be taken. 
-On 27 July 1971 and it appeared in the 'Australian' as a report of a television interview. That one will take a lot of getting out of. 
There are a lot of other promises but I have only a short time and cannot run through all the ways in which he has reneged. I know that it is not proper these days to indicate hostility to communism. One of the great successes of communist propaganda is that it has made anti-communism slightly disrespectable. If one takes that line one is accused of being a war monger, a red baiter, a smearer or anything that is approbrious. I am reminded of a splendid article in the Sydney 'Sun ' a little while ago pointing out the dangers of detente. But I do not want to be distracted into that line just for the moment. I come back to the present Prime Minister's promise not to dump Taiwan. Not only has it been dumped, but also it has been banished. Its embassy had to be sold and at one time there was talk that proceeds of the embassy sale could not go to Taiwan because  Chairman  Mao might not like it. Professor Teng who won a musical scholarship under the previous Government was such a dangerous Taiwanese that he was not allowed to come to Australia. We had trouble with the ping pong and basketball teams and have at the present moment the proscription on public servants against going in a private capacity to Taiwan. They are not allowed to go. They can go to Cuba. They can go there and see Fidel Castro and his boys or to see Pham Van Dong in Hanoi if they want to. Or they can go to East Germany and even to see Leonid Breznhev in the Kremlin. But they cannot go and see anyone in Taiwan. They cannot see Chiang Kai-Shek. That would probably make them dangerously subservisive, in the opinion of this present Government. 
We have had a lot of talk, as the Senate knows, about a new anthem. The Prime Minister is so purblind on China- this description of him was given to me by a senior Labor man- that it would not have surprised me if the Prime Minister had brought back from China the No. 3 record on the British pop charts, originally written by the Goons and entitled 'Ying Tong Yiddeli Po' as a suitable anthem for this country. When Nixon went to China he at least said that he was going without prejudice to old friends. When our then Leader of the Opposition went, the present Prime Minister, he put all his cards face up in advance and surrendered everything- so much so that Professor Arndt, who is not exactly in the pocket of the Liberal Party but who was economic adviser to the Labor Party, resigned in disgust. 
It is a fact. He was so disgusted with the attitude of the leader of his Party, with his subservience and oleaginousness, that he resigned. There are very serious overtones in these famous wheat and sugar sales. I know that any development of a substantial rural market is valuable and is welcomed, provided it can be relied upon. One of the things to which any Australian would object is the fact that the wheat sales seem to be tied to the continuance of a Labor government in this country. In other words, the Chinese have agreed to a 6-months sale and have promised to extend it for 2.5 years if the Labor Government remains in power. I would not think that that was a particularly good bet. We know, from an authority as high as  Dr J.  F. Cairns, that the Chinese entered into this agreement only because we had a Labor Administration. If that is not the most disgusting and degrading admission for a Minister of the Crown to make, I would like to know what is. 

 - Senator Lillico knows that a blind baby could sell wheat at the moment. There is a world shortage of it. The Soviet Union has bought 700 million bushels from the United States. France, which is normally an exporter, is importing. Canada has had a tremendous drought. The European Economic Community is not self-sufficient in wheat. Whilst a wheat sale is welcome, I think it is sobering to realise that the current wheat sales are less, on an estimated per year basis, than the sales arranged by the previous Government from 1966 onwards. Let us have a bit of sobriety and reason when we look at these exciting matters. The sugar sale might be in a better category. I am not sure; I will withhold judgment on it. The world is not so clamant for sugar as it is for wheat. On the one hand, the Government rejoices in having a sugar trade agreement with China. On the other hand, it brings Fidel Castro's boy out here to see what he can do to undermine our industry. 
When the Prime Minister returned from China he said that China symbolises Australia's highest aspirations. Surely nobody in this country beside comrade Aarons, Ted Hill and a few others, would agree with that statement. Not even honourable senators opposite would agree with it. Does not the Prime Minister realise that China has a one party system? There are no free trade unions in China. Let us look at the 2 gentlemen over whom our distinguished leader was slobbering. Chou En-lai, a man who has murdered 16 men- not killed them in battle- and  Chairman  Mao who, on his own admission, is responsible for the death of 20 million of his own people are the two to whom I refer. Was Adolf Hitler, whom all of us regard as the embodiment of all evil, a man whose ideas are to be shunned and criticised, evil only because he lost?  Chairman  Mao and his boys embody the same evils, the same brutality and the same tyranny. Are they to be respected simply because they won? 
Last Monday evening I was speaking to a friend of mine who had with him a friend from China. He was a bit disgusted with all the rubbish that was appearing in the Press about what great friends we were now with these 750 million or 800 million people. He said: 'I have two of the most terrible photographs that any man could have in his possession. I have a photograph of the execution of my mother and one of the execution of my father. My mother was walking down the street of a Chinese town shortly after the great Red successes in China. One of the locals denounced her as a landlord type'. I said: 'How much land did she own?' He said: 'A hectare'. A people's court was convened in the street where she was walking. The masses came, yelled for blood and condemned her to death, and without a trial her head was lopped off by a swordsman in the public street. Similar, although not exactly the same, circumstances existed in regard to the execution of his father. This is the method, the tyranny and the type of disgrace to humanity by which  Chairman  Mao and his friends have come to power. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that recently the present Government knowingly admitted into Australia without question a Communist terrorist, Tariq Ali. 
Did Tariq Ali come to Australia to raise money for terrorist activities, possibly connected with the Black September Movement. 
Is it a fact that the Government is now acutely aware of the possibility of Black September action being taken against the lives of such distinguished personages as the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General and  Dr M.  Cass. 
Will the Attorney-General re-assure the Senate that appropriate actions have been taken to protect these persons, though not necessarily using a helicopter gunship to do so, as was the case during the visit to Australia of the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia,  Mr Bijedic. 
I refer to Excise Bill (No. 2) 1973 and to the schedule attached to the Bill. I take this opportunity merely to express briefly my intense opposition to the obsession which this Government, following perhaps the precedent set by its predecessor, has with the acceptance of the metric system of weights and measures. If honourable senators look at Excise Bill (No. 2) they will see that the dutiable contents of a hogshead shall be taken as 234 litres. For many years without any difficulty people who dealt in liquid merchandise have had no difficulty in handling gallons, pints and so forth. But we now find for some reason which confers no economic or other valid benefit upon the community as a whole that this Government is intent on taking us into the area of metric weights and measures. 
I know that the decision has been made. I have already referred to that. But merely because a mistake has been made initially, I do not think that that is any reason why it should not be corrected before disaster overwhelms us. 
Just a moment. I will deal with heaven and earth on a more suitable occasion and when the matter before the chair is more apt. 
I would measure it in imperial measurement. I do not want to speak at any length now because I propose to raise the matter more adequately on a subsequent occasion. But this metric system has been adopted. I am not blaming this Government only for it. I do not want to sound unfair in this matter. But it has already caused a considerable increase in the price of milk and this Government has already used the device of measuring postage rates in grams in order to make an extraordinary increase in the cost of postage. Previously, it cost 7c to post a letter weighing half an ounce. Now, 20 grams is the maximum weight of a letter to which the 7c postage charge may be applied. That is roughly 60 per cent of the weight of a letter that would have been carried for 7c under the old imperial weights system. The post office is inflating the cost of its postage charges by using the metric system. As I said, on another occasion I will list a great number of commodities on which the price has been inflated simply by the use of the metric system. In the case of beer, I am informed on credible authority that the primary glass manufacturers are opposed to making litre bottles. At the moment, the normal bottle one buys is a 740 millilitre bottle. Last week I asked the lady in charge of our milk-bar in my little suburb for a 740 millilitre bottle of lemonade. She did not know what I wanted. 
She did not understand the metric system. She is in good company. Most of the people in Australia do not understand it, either. With these few introductory remarks, I will leave Excise Bill (No. 2 ) 1 973. 
-The Opposition will not oppose this Bill, with perhaps one exception. I have indicated to my colleague  Senator Laucke  that I will oppose the motion for the second reading of this Bill. If the Senate does not divide on the motion for the second reading, I wish it to be recorded that I am opposing the Bill. This Government is using broadcasting as a milch cow, and there is a limit to the amount that can be drawn out of it. The amount of $ 120,000, which is the amount of revenue involved in this measure, is not likely to wreck the industry. Nobody suggests that for one minute. I do not think the amount is terribly significant. However, I do ask the Government to have a look at the figures produced in the latest report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. I do not have a copy of the report in front of me, as the Bill was called on a little unexpectedly; but I see that the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  has one. My recollection is that the number of broadcasting stations making a loss in the year ended June 1971 was only nine. However, last year's figures show- the Minister can check this-that there are now 19 stations losing money. If the number of stations losing money has doubled in 12 months, this seems to me to be a particularly inappropriate time to increase the licence fees for the stations. 
Radio stations, like all other industries, are faced with rising costs- the cost of equipment, the cost of material, the cost of wages and the cost of the program material which they have to use. So, this impost really is more a symbolic one than a serious economic attack on the stations. I agree with my colleague  Senator Laucke  that that is in fact the case; but it is the principle to which I take some mild exception. For that reason I intend to vote against the motion for the second reading of the Bill. Where is this likely to stop? Very wisely the Government says: 'We do not intend to increase licence fees in respect of television stations'. Why? The answer is that television is faced with the cost of the introduction of colour, and everybody knows and everybody agrees that this must cause a substantial increase both in capital costs and in operating costs. So, television stations are exempted from this increase in licence fees. 
But I ask the Minister for the Media- this is a matter in relation to which I have given him considerable credit previously- to recall bis interest in frequency modulation broadcasting. Possibly due to his own initiative, it looks as though the introduction of frequency modulation broadcasting may be speeded up. Although this is likely, one cannot be sure, because under the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act the Government has to call for applications for licences, and so on and so forth. But it seems to me a fair probability that some of the people who will receive frequency modulation licences will be people who at present are operating the amplitude modulation stations to which these increased fees apply. So these stations will be faced with the increases in capital costs and operating costs brought about by the introduction of the more modern system of sound broadcasting, namely, frequency modulation broadcasting. 
I do not want to go off on a red herring in relation to frequency modulation, but the Senate will appreciate that the Government, as a result of a report by the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts- I see that my friend  Senator Milliner  is in agreement with me on this- proposes to refer the question of the frequency band in which frequency modulation is to be introduced to a new independent investigator or inquiry. I commend the Minister for this and for the way in which he has listened to a proposal contrary to the one which was adopted by the previous Government and which he was proposing to adopt. I appreciate his flexibility in saying that this matter is worthy of a further examination. I do not know what the end result of it will be; but, whichever band is chosen- whether it be in the very high frequency band or in the ultra high frequency band- the end result will be that radio stations will be faced with increased costs. Those things being so and having a particular interest in these matters, I think that this is a bad time- it is a time of raging inflation, the effects of which the stations have to meet, in common with the rest of the community- to increase the licence fees of the radio stations. I intend to vote against the motion for the second reading of the Bill. 
Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister aware that a proposed Australian national anthem called 'God Bless Australia' and composed by Wing Commander Whitehead, an Englishman, was played on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's radio program 'AM' last Friday? Is the Minister aware that the proposed anthem has created more than ordinary interest and support? Without in any way criticising the present Australian anthem, will the Minister hear the proposed anthem- I will sing it for him if necessary - 
Is the Minister representing the Postmaster-General aware that his colleague the Postmaster-General in another place has set up a metric schedule for weights for postage, being 7c for 20 grams, and that above that weight the price increases in a number of steps? Is the Minister aware that in order to check whether the weight of a letter exceeds 20 grams, and hence needs extra postage, commercial houses and others are required to purchase a 1- gram weight? Is the Minister aware that weights of this size are unobtainable except at scientific instrument dealers where the price is $38? Will the Minister investigate this matter, which is another example of the inflationary tendencies of the metric system, and do what he can to stop the practice that I have outlined? 
Has the attention of the Minister for the Media been drawn to an article in the 'Sunday Mirror' of 11 November which suggests that because rating surveys will not be conducted between November this year and February next year we can expect only bad or mediocre television programming? ls the Minister aware that there is grave concern among members of my union that first release Australian drama probably will be removed from television during the months of November, December and January and replaced by replays of old episodes? Does the Minister concur in this gloomy prediction? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it not a fact that despite Government protestations none of the many Federal instrumentalities using foreign owned advertising agencies have changed to Australian agencies since the Government came to power? Is it not a fact that the Australian Dairy Produce Board has now appointed U.S.P. Needham Australia Pty Ltd, a foreign owned company by Government definition? Is it not a fact that in Victoria, whence the Board operates, there are over 60 totally Australian owned agencies from which the Board could have chosen its agency? Will the Government stop talking emotionally about Australian nationalism while its actions are in contradiction of it? 
I wish to take up a few moments of the Senate's time to approve very strongly of the remarks of  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator McManus  in relation to the Croatian tragedy. It is abundantly clear from questions which we have asked in this place and the answers which we have been given that the enormous police raids of early April were a farce, a disaster and a negation of democracy in this country. Because the matter is at present before the Senate Select Committee on Civil Rights of Migrant Australians I do not propose to refer to actual evidence from Hansard but I intend to refer to police evidence which has been printed in the daily Press. It is abundantly clear from this evidence that the New South Wales Police and the Commonwealth Police are staffed entirely by angels and archangels. They were so clean in the matters in which they involved themselves. Everything, according to the police evidence, pointed to these wicked people doing the most terrible things, and after 69 nouses were raided we have the piffling result which  Senator Greenwood  has just itemised in detail. Most of the convictions were for things which have nothing to do with terrorism. They were simple criminal activities. If the Government were genuinely interested in terrorism- I do not believe that it is; it is a political fraud and a political ramp-it would have taken some action when a self professed practising terrorist came into this country. Let us have a look at the Government's record in regard to 3 of these people. Tariq Ali is a self professed practising Arab terrorist. He came to Australia about 6 or 8 weeks ago; I cannot remember the exact date. He was admitted into Australia without a moment's hesitation or delay and he expressed his delight on television and said: Every other country I go to I have to go through a couple of hours' interrogation because they know my terrorist record '. 
I do not recall which television channel I was watching at the time. I was very surprised at this Government, which is determined to stamp out terrorism which has people raiding innocent Australian homes at five in the morning and enters other homes without a warrant and then says it was invited. 1 would have thought that a government of that type would have said that Tariq Ali would not be allowed into the country. But he was and he attempted to spread his terrorist ideas here and to collect money. Was he apprehended? Did the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation chase him? Not as far as I know. Did the Commonwealth Police arrest him? Did the Commonwealth Police question him about anything? Not as far as Tariq Ali is concerned. Not as far as his interview on television is concerned. 
Let us leave Tariq Ali. Perhaps the omnipotent surveillance of the Commonwealth Government missed Tariq Ali, but it could not miss Herbert Zvogbo This gentleman is a self professed terrorist from Rhodesia. He is one of the freedom fighters; one of the people who cross the borders of Rhodesia and murder black women and children. This character arrives in Australia and announces that he has come to raise money for terrorist activities in Rhodesia. Is he banned? He is not. Is he investigated? He is not. What happens? The Government invites him to the Surfers' Paradise orgy up on our Sunshine Coast where the Labor Party is meeting in the middle of the winter. Herbert Zvogbo says that he went along to see the Leader of the Government in this place  (Senator Murphy)  and also the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  After some discussions with these 2 honourable gentlemen what happened? Almost a full page photograph appeared of Zvogbo in the 'Australian'. He announcedand this has never been rebutted because I have a question on notice which was asked weeks ago and has not been answered- that the Prime Minister and the Attorney-General had told him that they would do all in their power to help to overthrow the regime in Rhodesia. I ask honourable senators to mark the word 'overthrow'. That does not sound like the use of constitutional means, does it? 
Well, it is a matter which can be investigated but I would hate to see the Attorney-General arraigned because I have such tender feelings towards him. What happened when Zvogbo put this forward? It has never been contradicted. So, we now have a Prime Minister and an Attorney-General who are committed to the overthrow, presumably by violence, of a regime in Rhodesia. One of the usual tales trotted out when anything is mentioned of this nature is that Rhodesia is an illegal regime. The Unilateral Declaration of Independence has been in existence in Rhodesia about 8 years now and the Government is still referred to by the Attorney-General and members of his Government as an illegal regime.  Chairman  Mao and his offsider helped to overthrow the successor to  Dr Sun  Yat-sen on the mainland of China a little over 20 years ago but that is not an illegal regime. It was done by force, violence, subversion and the normal method of communist activity. But that becomes a legal government and we have our Prime Minister slobbering over him. He came back here and announced that no country more closely symbolises Australia's ideas than does that of this murdering gang which now reigns in Peking. 
I want to refer again for a moment to the selective indignation which this Government has in directing its instrumentalities. I have referred to the savage travesty of the Croatian persecutions. I had occasion a few weeks ago to address the Captive Nations Organisation in Sydney. This meeting was attended by about 2,000 people. Naturally it did not get any covereage from the gentlemen of the Press because the 2,000 people who attended did not smash one window, they did not prod one police horse and they did not explode one stink bomb. It was an absolutely lawful meeting and they made their point. Had this been a meeting of the type supported by honourable senators opposite at which there are fights with the police it would have received tremendous coverage. I went to Adelaide about a month ago to speak to a meeting of the Captive Nations Organisation. On Saturday of last week I spoke, as did my friend  Senator McManus,  to the Captive Nations assemblage in Melbourne. 
I take no small pride in the fact that  Senator McManus  and I received the Order of Knighthood from the Polish Government in exile. This is a government that stood behind our troops when the Nazis and their pals were doing the best they could to stamp them out. Honourable senators opposite might remember what the Polish Government in exile did at Tobruk, Monte Cassino and at other places. The record of that Government would wipe the smile off their faces. I have been distracted for a moment. The point 1 want to make is this: Having addressed these law abiding citizens who loathe, hate and detest communism because they have experienced it, and having seen for myself that the meeting was conducted in a lawful and orderly manner, we found that on the Monday the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, from the AttorneyGeneral's Department, descended upon the  Chairman  to ask questions about this subversive gathering. ASIO wanted to see the constitution of the Captive Nations people. If this had been a communist show dealing in subversion, treachery and all that is vile, they would have ignored it. 
That is right. This organisation had the backing of  President  Eisenhower,  President  Kennedy and  President  Johnson. It has the backing of  President  Nixon. All of these men made no bones about their attitude towards this organisation. But because we had our meeting in Melbourne ASIO descended upon the Polish  Chairman.  I merely mention that because later on we will have an opportunity of debating the Bill on human rights. I do not want to transgress by referring to what is contained in that Bill, but I simply say what a lot of humbug it is because for 23 years under a democratic government we did not need such legislation; for 23 years there was no call for it. Our rights were never impugned because we had a democratic government. I will not go into the activities of comrade Chitepo who is a self professed black" terrorist from southern Africa. When this person came to Australia he was allowed to go around, to make speeches and to collect money. He was allowed to do so because this Government has an obsession to the point, one might say, of oleaginous servility and obsequiousness towards what it calls anti-racism. To my way of thinking a man is a murderer whether he is black, vhite , brown or brindle. If a self-professed murdering type comes here I do not think he should be admitted. 
I do not propose to traverse that line of territory just for the moment, senator. 
Well, do not anticipate that with such delight. I want now to draw attention to an economic matter. I want to appeal to the Government, having given it some mild criticism in that matter, and to direct it along a more constructive line. I want to ask the Government even at this late hour to reverse the disastrous decision made by my own Government and followed by this Government in regard to the implementation of the metric system of weights and measures. Evidence of the introduction of this system is appearing day by day in shops, commercial houses and on the farm. It appears more and more that the change to this system will be disastrous and that absolutely no benefit will accrue from it. We should not be dictated to by some other countries which measure their goods and distances in the metric fashion. Is it suggested seriously that if Japan wants our minerals it will not buy them if they are not sold in tonnes? I am not sure how one pronounces that peculiar French word. 
We have been conned into accepting this system. We were told that certain advantages would accrue. I do not doubt for one minute that when it comes to doing a few sums at school the children will find that the metric system is much easier than the present one. But the point I raise is this: Has an estimation been made of the millions, the hundreds of millions or perhaps the thousands of millions of dollars that this conversion will cost or of the benefit that will accrue to the nation as a result of this conversion? Is it any easier to buy a 740-millilitre bottle of beer than it is to buy a 26 oz bottle? Recently when I went into my little local milk bar and asked for a 740-millilitre bottle of lemonade I had to assist the shopkeeper to find a bottle of that size. 
According to the dairymen in Victoria the price of milk will go up by approximately 12 per cent simply because of the conversion to the metric system in that industry. The other day in the Senate I dealt with the increase in the cost of postage that has resulted partly from the conversion to the metric system and of course partly from the Budget measures of the Government. I pointed out that if one wants to check whether a letter weighs over 20 grams, which is the standard postage rate, one has to buy a 1-gram weight. But the problem is that these weights cannot be purchased.  Mr Deputy President,  you know from your scientific endeavours how tiny a 1-gram weight is. You may know that weights of this size are available only from scientific instrument shops and that one has to pay $38 for a weight of this size. I could give many examples of how the metric system is conning this country into unnecessary expense. I could tell the Senate how this system is spurring on inflation. Certainly it is not bringing about the benefits that were promised. 
I ask the Minister who is in charge of this matter to tell us what benefit the country has received from our distances being measured in kilometres? Can he tell us whether it is any easier to say that Sydney is 264 kilometres, I think it is, from Canberra rather than 189 miles? Who is going to pull up all the mile posts and put in kilometre posts? Who is going to change all of the yards, feet and inches on the millions of titles to land in this country? Will this be done at once or will it be done as new titles are issued? Innumerable economic problems will result from this change. Indeed, we could put the entire Public Service to the task of arranging our metric conversion. But now that we have decided to take this step, what benefit does the country receive from this change? The farmer has trouble in measuring quantities. I have had a look at some of the arguments put forward in favour of metrication but I have not been able to find any benefit which is consistent with the amount of money that it will cost to change over to this system. For example, the cost of a skein of wool has increased as a result of the changeover. It is estimated that the cost will increase by 1 5 per cent. Why? Simply because it is subject to metric measure. 
The Government has expressed tremendous interest in curbing inflation. It has talked a great deal about it but it has not done a great deal about it. It has set up the Prices Justification Tribunal, which it knew would not work and which we knew would not work. It has changed the exchange rate and made a few other gestures. I am now asking the Government to turn back before it is too late. I know we have spent thousands, perhaps millions, of dollars already in partly converting to the metric system. Punters do not know what is happening. When the commentator says '800 metres to go', they do not know how far away the horses are. This is a matter which has to be learned over a lifetime and we will receive from conversion no benefit to compensate for the enormous waste of time, energy and money spent on it. I appeal to the Government to turn back. We are on the brink. Turn back before it is too late. 
I wish to direct a question to you,  Mr President.  If I should ask for leave to play the proposed new anthem written by a Royal Air Force Wing Commander and if such leave were granted by the Senate, would you add your voice to that of other persons who believe that this anthem should not be excluded from the Prime Minister's ballot simply because the author is an Englishman? I inform you,  Mr President,  that the recording is of only one minute 's duration. Although last week you and  Senator Murphy  quite rightly had reservations about my singing it, I can assure you that you will find the recorded Welsh choir very impressive. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy by referring to the current world fuel shortage. Has any work been done by the Commonwealth in conjunction with the Victorian authorities in respect of the production of liquid fuels and lubricants from brown coal in Victoria by the Victorian Lurgi plant at Yallourn-Morwell? If so, can the Minister say what is the general production capacity of this plant? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the Prime Minister's statement in answer to a question on notice asked by  Senator Gair  that in August 1969 he was appointed a Knight Grand Cross of Grace in the Roll of Merit of the Military Order of the Collar of Saint Agatha of Paterno. Can the Minister explain why the Prime Minister accepts this foreign knighthood while at the same time he rejects knighthoods being conferred upon Australian citizens by the Queen of Australia? Can the Minister say whether  Mr Whitlam  's knighthood comes from Chile or from Malta? Finally, does this mean that in polite circles the Prime Minister should now be referred to as  Sir Gough  Whitlam? 
I support the Opposition's amendment because of the very important principles involved. I do not propose to traverse all the words in it. This evening's debate inevitably takes the minds of honourable senators in this chamber- no doubt the members of the other place also would have the same view- back to perhaps Australia's greatest Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, who pioneered the just principle of the giving of some assistance to independent schools. At that time  Sir Robert  was fiercely opposed and attacked by the honourable humbugs opposite who are now screaming so loud and who are now weeping crocodile tears in respect of the poor Catholic schools. I have never heard such nonsense. The winds of change were blowing then and there was a move for the making of grants available for science blocks. I remember an honourable senator from the Australian Labor Party getting up in this chamber and saying: 'This is the most iniquitous legislation ever to come before the Parliament'. 
Sentor HANNAN- Does the honourable senator really want me to tell him? 
Senatory Poyser- Yes. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Is it not a fact that Article 12 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights asserts that everyone shall be free to leave any country, including his own? Is it not a fact that Australia either has signed or proposes to sign, under the new Human Rights Bill, that Covenant? Is it not a fact that in November of this year,  Mr Mato  Goreta of Sydney, a Croatian, was refused a passport, thus being effectively imprisoned on this island of Australia? Has  Mr Goreta  been convicted of any offence against Australian law? If so, what is that offence? Are any police charges pending against  Mr Goreta?  If so, what are they and why have they not been pressed? Is it not a fact that  Mr Goreta  's home was searched in the notorious April Fools Day dawn raids this year and that no incriminating evidence was found? 

 - Senator Hendrickson. 

It is in Hansard. Go and have a look at it. I do not carry that sort of nonsense around in my head. I have quoted the very words he said. I was not going to disclose his name because I have, perhaps wrongly, a certain cavalier approach to honourable senators opposite, but since the honourable senator has asked me for his name I have given it to him. 
I do not carry the dates of these idiot speeches around in my head. One of the most remarkable aspects of this evening's debate was the crashing silence from honorable senators opposite until I started to speak. They have now become vocal- irrational and noisy, but vocal. I want to point out that in Victoriaand mind you, in this as in the Liberal Party and any other party Victoria is the mainspring in the heart of all political endeavour and I do not think there will be any challenge to that statement- the socialist left led by  Mr Hartley  and George Crawford are in a position of very great power. So strong was their criticism when poor  Mr Holding  attempted to say at the State election before last that he favoured a reasonable quantum of State aid he was disciplined by Hartley and Crawford and the rug was pulled out from under him, and of course he had no prospect whatever of forming a government. 
It did not discipline me; let there be no doubt about that. And do not rejoice too early. The mere fact that we have been given so much nonsense in the Press of recent days is living proof of the Government's belief that it has sufficient hired pens and sufficient control of the media to ensure that one of the worst confidence tricks that has ever been attempted to be foisted on the people of this country has been given such publicity. The Government alleges that our action will deprive schools of $694m. Nobody on this side has ever said that. Nobody except the Government's propagandists has ever said that. Nobody except the hired pens and the hired voices behind the microphones has ever suggested that that was the real position. It is simply not true. The Prime Minister's credibility is at stake in this Bill.  His  credibility has received some very nasty shocks lately. The Premier of South Australia who can scarcely be said to be in  Mr Snedden  's pocket has said: 'I have been dishonoured by a broken pledge '. Why? Because  Mr Whitlam  told him before the election: 'You can tell the brandy characters that under Labor this impost will go '. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the commendable- if possibly a little weak-statement yesterday by the Prime Minister on Israeli prisoners of war, is the Minister aware that when the Israeli forces retook the Golan Heights from Syria they found the bodies of 28 of their fellow soldier prisoners of war who had been bound, tortured and shot and the bodies hidden under brush and rocks? Is the Minister aware that Syria has a horrible record in respect of Israeli prisoners? Will the Government take its courage in its hands and, standing up against its new Third World friends at the United Nations, demand in the General Assembly that Syria be called upon to comply with the Geneva Convention on prisoners of war? 
Is the Attorney-General aware that savage racist persecution of Russia's Jewish minority is still taking place? Is he aware that the most recent significant victims are  Mr Valery  Panov and his wife who have been dismissed from the Kirov Ballet and suffered other persecution because they applied to migrate from Russia to Israel? I ask the Minister, as an international advocate who has appeared successfully at The Hague: Is it not a fact that the Soviet Constitution provides that every citizen shall be free to leave the Soviet? Is not a similar resolution embodied in the International Covenant on Human Rights? Can the Minister explain the different attitudes of this Government to racism in Russia and racism in South Africa? 
I wish to direct a question to the Attorney-General because of his concern with human rights. Does he recall that this year is the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by members of the United Nations? Is he aware that one of the signatories, the Soviet Union, celebrated its ratification, in October of this year, with hundreds of new arrests and closed trials within its own borders and within the captive nations which the Soviet Union occupies? While this Senate has already expressed its view on the treatment of the Soviet Union's own dissidents, I ask the Minister whether he is aware that a particularly brutal and repressive persecution by the Soviet Union is now taking place in the Ukraine. Will the Government sponsor a resolution at the United Nations requiring the Soviet Union to live up to its membership obligations by releasing all prisoners of conscience in the Ukraine and in other captive nations? Whilst I regard it as unreasonable to expect this Government to act as the moral policeman of the world at the United Nations, I ask: Will the Minister and his Government show at least as much interest in the welfare of the Ukrainian and other captive nations of whose people we have hundreds of thousands here as it does in the welfare of Rhodesian Africans of whom we have none? 
-I ask the Minister for the Media: What is the present position of the recently announced Cabinet decision to set up an Australian Film Commission with various functions, including those carried out so successfully so far by the Australian Film Development Corporation. While this may possibly be a good overall decision, I ask the Minister to give an assurance that the functions of the Australian Film Development Corporation will be adequately carried out by the new body and that the highly skilled and experienced personnel of the Corporation will not be prejudiced in regard to employment, salary or status by the change. 
I wish to make a brief reference to clause 8. I do not intend to vote against the clause.  Senator Davidson  has referred to some significant omissions in the facilities that are to be provided. He has also drawn attention to the significant part which the Albury-Wodonga area has played in the absorption of migrants into the Australian community. I had the privilege of being brought up in the Albury-Wodonga area, and I know the very great role which the migrants are now playing in the city of Albury. A very significant proportion of the population of Albury is migrant or of migrant extraction. Like  Senator Davidson,  I should like to know whether it is intended to direct- and, of course, the constitutional power of the Commonwealth to direct is somewhat hedged around in matters of this nature- incoming migrants to this Albury-Wodonga area. 
Another matter which is only obliquely related to that question concerns the oft-expressed view of this Government in relation to what it calls the quality of life and, the new in-terms of ecology, conservation and many other abstract nouns, the validity of some of which may well be open to question. It may be a little late to raise this matter, but I ask the Minister, in replying, to say whether any inquiries were made about the wishes of the people of Albury. I speak about Albury specifically, although it is just across the border from my own State of Victoria. Have any inquires been made in respect of the wishes of the people of Albury, as to whether they wanted to be part of an enormous complex. 

 - Mr Hamer is the Premier of Victoria. I am talking about Albury, which happens to be in New South Wales. I raise this question not on a political basis but merely as a matter of simple interest. I did my own little gallup poll when in Albury a few months ago and I could not find one local resident who was in favour of turning Albury into this gigantic complex. I realise, of course, that under a socialist administration the wishes of the individual do not count for very much, but I should like the Minister, when replying, to tell us what inquiries were made of the local people- and I do not mean only the local councils. It may be difficult to ascertain the wishes of such a complex community, but it would be a matter of interest to me to know what inquiries were made of the people who live in Albury, as to whether they wanted to become part of this complex. 
I will not detain the Senate for long, but I, too, have received a communication from my own State along the lines of the telegrams that  Senator Webster  has read. I, too, make an appeal along the lines set out by  Senator Webster.  After all, this is a States House. Many clauses in this Bill seem to intrude into the exclusive sphere of the States, and I join with  Senator Webster  in appealing to the Minister to take these matters into account in administering the legislation. 
Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate recall that about a month ago I asked him whether  Mr Whitlam  carried a foreign knighthood, namely that he was a Knight of the Collar of St Agatha of Paterno? Does the Minister recall advising me in writing that the Prime Minister had nothing to add to his answer on this subject which he gave to  Senator Gair  on 6 March? Does the Minister recall that on 6 March the Prime Minister answered  Senator Gair  as follows: 
In August 1969 I was appointed a Knight Grand Cross of Grace in the Roll of Merit of the Military Order of the Collar of Saint Agatha of Paterno 
Does the Minister recall that 2 weeks ago I asked him, inter alia, why the Prime Minister accepted a foreign knighthood whilst rejecting recommendations for knighthood from the Queen of Australia? Does the Minister know that the 'Australian' newspaper of 30 November reported: 
A spokesman for  Mr Whitlam  said the Prime Minister had no knowledge of such an award. 
I ask the Minister: Will he clear up this position speedily as the credibility of the Prime Minister, already badly shaken, would appear to be involved? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that the present Australian national anthem, God Save The Queen, shall not be altered or replaced without a referendum of the people. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact that a  Mr F.  Moy was held at gunpoint by a  Mr McLeod  at the office of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs on Thursday last? If so, did  Mr Moy  make a statement to the police? If so, why was the statement not given to the court last Friday? If such a statement was made, is the Minister willing to table the statement in the Senate? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether he is aware that Commonwealth car drivers frequently spend up to 12 hours a day in hot black official cars which, except for the Ford LTDs and, I understand, one Mercedes Benz, are without air conditioning. Is the Minister aware that this causes great discomfort to the drivers in our hot Australian summer? 
Does not the honourable senator care about the workers? Is the Minister also aware that the lack of air conditioning has an adverse and repressive effect on the drivers' social life and that it reduces their efficiency? In view of the negligible cost of the Government will the Minister arrange to have all Commonwealth cars fitted with efficient air conditioning forthwith? If he is short of money he could sell Blue Poles'. 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Victoria: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That whereas our constitutional parliamentary democracy was clearly developed as a Federation to preserve for all time to the Australian people their cherished right to live as free men and women, enjoying complete liberty of worship, assembly, speech, movement and the communication of knowledge and information. 
And whereas our existing Australian Flag and our national anthem, 'God Save The Queen', are perpetual reminders of these hard-won freedoms and of the wise British principle of the division of power, so well reflected in our own Australian Constitution with its careful separation of powers as between the Crown and Commonwealth Parliament, the Senate, the State Parliaments, the GovernorGeneral and State Governors, and the Independent Courts of Justice. 
And whereas all such rights, liberties, heritage, advancement and prosperity, etc., are of no avail if our Armed Forces are unprepared or incapable of repelling invasion of our shores or withstanding other military threats. 
So therefore must all these things be accorded the highest national concern and priority. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure- 
The most rapid, efficient and largest possible expansion of all branches of our Defence Forces, and greatest possible strengthening and extending of defence treaties and security arrangements with our traditional friends and allies. 
The right of every Australian citizen to vote at a National Referendum or Senate or Federal Elections for the retention of our present Australian Flag and equally of our national anthem, 'God Save The Queen', before any government or other body can attempt to substitute either a new flag or anthem, and a similar voting right for the choice of any official National Song to play on international occasions. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in this Senate: Is it a fact that 3 Soviet Russian trade or presidium delegates were visiting Canberra on Tuesday last? Is it a fact that one of them was Lieutenant-General Evgeni Petovronov, formerly a top-ranking KGB officer and therefore a leader in the world 's worst terrorist police organisation? At a time when the rest of the civilised world is expressing its condemnation of the treatment of Solzhensitsyn by the KGB, can the Minister explain why his Government chose this moment to allow an entry visa to this man and in fact seemed to welcome him with flags and an official luncheon? Will the Minister give an assurance that known KGB or Gestapo men will not be allowed into Australia in future? 
I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth- 
That whereas our constitutional parliamentary democracy was clearly developed as a Federation to preserve for all time to the Australian people their cherished right to live as free men and women, enjoying complete liberty of worship, assembly, speech, movement and the communication of knowledge and information. 
And whereas our existing Australian Flag and our national anthem, 'God Save The Queen', are perpetual reminders of these hard-won freedoms and of the wise British principle of the division of power, so well reflected in our own Australian Constitution with its careful separation of powers as between the Crown and Commonwealth Parliament, the Senate, the State Parliaments, the GovernorGeneral and State Governors, and the Independent Courts of Justice, 
And whereas all such rights, liberties, heritage, advancement and prosperity, etc., are of no avail if our Armed Forces are unprepared or incapable of repelling invasion of our shores or withstanding other military threats, 
So therefore must all these things be accorded the highest national concern and priority. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure- 
The most rapid, efficient and largest possible expansion of all branches of our Defence Forces, and greatest possible strengthening and extending of defence treaties and security arrangements with our traditional friends and allies, 
The right of every Australian citizen to vote at a National Referendum or Senate or Federal Elections for the retention of our present Australian Flag and equally of our national anthem, 'God Save The Queen', before any government or other body can attempt to substitute either a new flag or anthem, and a similar voting right for the choice of any official National Song to play on international occasions. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister aware that one of the 3 anthems currently being submitted to a restricted ballot, namely, 'Advance Australia Fair', is so similar to the Danish national anthem as to be almost indistinguishable from it? Does the Minister agree that this is undesirable and that if Advance Australia Fair' were to be adopted as our national anthem it could cause embarrassment? I inform the Minister that through the courtesy of Wing-Commander Whiteman of the Royal Air Force I have here a cassette recording of the Danish national anthem in case the Minister does not have a copy of it available. I would make it available to the Minister if it would assist his recommendation. 
Owing to a direction from the  President  I am unable to offer to sing the Danish anthem. I ask the Minister whether he will discuss with the  President  the possibility of having the Danish anthem played for interested senators so that they may assess its similarity to 'Advance Australia Fair'. 
-I sought substance in  Senator Keeffe  's remarks but I found them such a farrago of nonsense as to be unworthy of serious consideration, although it was refreshing- for the first time- to hear him utter some concern for the unfortunate members of the armed Services who were drowned in Brisbane. So silly was his farrago that even when an interjection was in his favour he could not understand it. I want to make certain that I join in the loyal address to  Her  Majesty and that I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers).  The Queen has honoured us by conducting the opening ceremony as our constitutional monarch, even though she was forced by her advisers to deliver a speech of apalling twaddle. 
Well, I will change the word 'twaddle'. She was forced by her constitutional advisers to deliver a speech of a highly party political nature, a speech written by  Mr Freudenburg  and approved by  Mr Whitlam. 
Offensive to whom? One of the interesting aspects of the drafting of this Speech which we are supposed to be discussingI know it is a novelty to refer to the Speech, but that is what we are supposed to be talking about- is that in one part of the Speech the Queen speaks about  Her  Government doing this and  Her  Government doing that and in another part  Her  Majesty states that a previous Government had failed to carry out a certain obligation. This is such a silly piece of drafting by  Mr Freudenburg  that it makes the Queen criticise her own Government because, presumably, the previous Administration was the Queen's 
Government as well. We then had some reference to the word 'mandate'. The word mandate' has not been used in this chamber so much in recent months- since the November gallup polls started to run. After the disclosure last Saturday of the poll results in the 'Age' anyone opposite would be far too timid to use the word 'mandate' again. I would think that if an election for the House of Representatives were held now the figures would show a majority of 30 to 40 in favour of the Liberal and Country Parties. 
There was another significant omission from the Speech. It has been customary,  Mr President,  as a man of your experience would know, for the terminal paragraph of the Speech to commend the deliberations of the Parliament to Almighty God and trust that we get on well and that we have  His  guidance in the discharge of the high obligations that we have. In the last 2 speeches from the throne this, significantly, has been omitted, presumably on the basis that if you have Gough you do not need God. 
-Let us trust that he will very, very shortly. I want to comment on the reference in the Speech to foreign relations. Our policies are now said to be 'forward looking'. If we substitute the words 'servility and obsequiousness' in describing our policies towards communist and third world countries we get a more accurate picture. The Government talks about 'reform' when what it means is simply 'change'. It is usually a change for the worse and instead of reform it means decay. I suppose if there is any area more than another in which this Government's performance has been a disaster it is in the field of foreign affairs. What the Government has done is to insult and to deceive the British, the Americans, the French, the Singaporeans, the Malaysians, the Cambodians and the South Vietnamese whilst picking up some more than dubious friends in China, East Germany, North Korea and any other communist state that shows its head. I understand that we are preparing to welcome the gentleman from Cuba in the not too distant future. This is no reform; this is no progressive policy. Australia has simply changed sides. Far from being a respected middle power which could be relied upon to discharge its international obligations, we have now become the running dog of Chairman Mao and sometimes even of Brezhnev, although it is a little difficult sometimes for the Government to balance the different requirements between Chairman Mao and 
Brezhnev because they are not always the same these days. 
As would be expected, the Speech makes a special reference to China. The bulk of the Government's policy on foreign affairs revolves around pleasing the  Chairman  and because, as I said before, it is sometimes difficult to deal with both  Chairman  Mao and Brezhnev, we have all sorts of odd results emerging from that. Last week in this very chamber we had a representative of the KGB, Lieutenant-General Evgeni Pitouranov, who had been invited to this country by a Government which keeps out girl guides from Rhodesia and boy scouts from South Africa but brings in men like Pitouranov a former General in the KGB. 
Before we go off on the trail of the KGB let us look at the circumstances in which we went to China. I use the word 'we' in the generic sense -'we' representing the Government.  Mr Whitlam  went to China before he became Prime Minister. He made an announcement in advance that a Labor government would, as soon as it was elected, recognise China. There was no talk about terms and conditions, although before he left he did say that Australia should recognise China on the Canadian formula, which meant that we would take note of the position of Taiwan. When  Mr Nixon  went to China shortly afterwards, for some reason which I have never been able to understand all our Press pundits announced that there was now no difference in the approach towards China between the Liberal and Country Parties and the Labor Party. Of course there was a fundamental difference because when Nixon went to China he went proclaiming that he went without prejudice to old friends. In the case of  Mr Whitlam,  when he went old friends could go to hell for all he cared. Professor Marchant of the University of Western Australia has made it abundantly clear that Australia has had to submit to 29 humiliating conditions in order to secure recognition. Those conditions were not imposed on anybody except the Seychelle Islands and the Maldive Islands. I do not believe our foreign policy should revolve around Taiwan all the time. I think too much can be made of that position. But it is true that on 27 July 1971  Mr Whitlam  is reported to have said in the 'Australian' of that date: 'A Labor Government will not dump Taiwan. We would use the Canadian formula'. Of course we now have seen opened up the greatest credibility gap in the business in regard to this matter. Not only has Taiwan been dumped so far as Australia is concerned but the Ambassador has been sacked. There was talk of appropriating the funds held in the Bank of China in Sydney. There were statements from the Department of Foreign Affairs that a doubtful title would be given to the property owned by the then Ambassador from free China. When it came to dumping it was a complete and absolute reversal of what the Prime Minister had said in July 1971 that Labor would do. So complete has the dumping been that poor Professor Teng from Taiwan, who won a music scholarship under the previous administration, is not allowed to come here to take it up. The basketball team could not come to Australia and Australian public servants are not allowed to visit Taiwan even in a private capacity. What sort of dumping is this? 
We had 2 further examples of the subservience of the present administration to China when at the last minute the SEATO naval exercises were cancelled. Why? Australia was to provide ships for the exercise, but we thought it might offend  Chairman  Mao so we would not make our ships available for the exercise. It might interest honourable senators opposite to know that the maps currently selling in the equivalent of the Department of Foreign Affairs in Peking- it is not called that; I forget its correct title- show Chinese territory extending not only to include all Korea but right down to include the whole of Indo China, Singapore, Malaya and part of Indonesia and, of course, the whole of Burma. These maps are on sale in Peking now. If this is an indication of proposed Chinese aggression I should hope that people in our department would at least take some heed of it. The Paracel Islands were aggressively grabbed by China a few weeks ago. We heard no scream from this Government about this act of aggression because so far as this Government is concerned China can do no wrong. 
Turning to Africa, the Prime Minister has of course a completely blind spot about it. He approves of murder in Rhodesia and South Africa by so-called freedom fighters who kill mainly black people- not white people. He even told Zvobgo here in the middle of last year that the Government would give him- Zvobgo, a black terrorist- every help in overthrowing the white government in Rhodesia led by Smith. If the word 'overthrow' does not connote violence I would like to know what it means. He launched, with his colleague  Senator Murphy,  the most vigorous and unfounded persecution of the Croatian people in this country whose only crime is that they loathe the communist tyranny that has been fastened upon their homeland. If the Prime Minister were genuinely interested in human welfare he might have had a few words to say about the shocking massacres carried out by  President  Numeiry in the Sudan. He might have perhaps have had a word to say to the Government of Burundi. I need not mention that these are all one party, pink fascist-type dictatorships. He might have had a word to say to them. But how silly can the Prime Minister get when in India last year he announced that before voting in the United Nations Australia will now consult Tanzania in preference to the United States and Great Britain. What social, political, cultural, economic or any other nexus has Australia with Tanzania? I notice from a invitation on my desk that the Government is to entertain the dictator of Tanzania who will be visiting this city next Wednesday. 
-I should not think I will be there, if it does not distress you too much. 
I am not used to attending pink fascist functions. We have had in the Speech talk of reforms in defence. This comes from a Prime Minister who once urged Australian troops to mutiny in the field. I think  Mr Barnard  has made a reasonable start in some spheres in his cutting down of duplication and waste, for which he must be commended. But, unfortunately, he also seems to be cutting down on things that are not waste. Vice-Admiral Peek had a few well chosen words to say about the way in which the Navy is being virtually destroyed. The morale of the forces, as Denis Warner pointed out, has never been lower, and this at a time when the Russians have at least 20 large naval vessels in the Indian Ocean. When the Americans go to establish a more substantial base at Diego Garcia, what does this Government do? Does it complain to the Russians about filling up the Indian Ocean, which the Government wants to be a zone of peace, about sending their warships to that area? No, of course not. It complains to the Americans. Aren't they naughty to attempt to defend this country and the Indian Ocean zone if this becomes necessary. 
The 3 DDL destroyers which the Navy has regarded as essential to the development of the Navy have been scrapped. A squadron of Mirages has been cut out of action. I noticed that last week we rejected a very interesting offer from the McDonneil Co. in America regarding its new FI 5 fighter. We were to have built part of it here and be given certain priorities about deliveries. At this stage I am not prepared to condemn that decision by the Government but I do think it was worthy of more examination than it appears to have been given. 
Another matter which is distressing principally the housewife and the man in the street in Australia at the moment is one of the biggest con jobs ever put over the Australian people- I do not blame this Government entirely for it- and that is the continuation of the metric system in this country. If ever there was an unnecessary expense and a stupid, futile exercise it is the introduction of compulsory metrication to our weights and measures. Nobody is going to argue about the benefits that we have received from decimal currency; they are obvious and do not brook argument. But with metrication the position is entirely different. As you,  Mr Deputy President,  know, metric measures come in 2 sizes- too big or too little. If we cannot have a more suitable unit like the foot or the inch for normal measurements for building and so on, we have to go to the metre or drop down to the millimetre, which of course is ridiculous. In many industries right around the world our current unit has been retained and will be retained. In fact, the foot and the inch are almost universal in shipbuilding, oil production, aircraft instrumentation and quite a number of other industries. Electronic computers are using the binary, not the metric, scale. I have noticed in the English Press numerous criticisms of the proposal to go on with metrication in Great Britain. The estimated cost of completing metrication in Great Britain is $ 10,000m. Here, because we have a smaller population, the cost would be very much lower. However, on an estimate that has been given to me it appears that the cost would be at least $2,500m. It is a fact that French workmen, 180 years after Napoleon foisted this system upon France, are still taking their measurements in feet and inches. 
The French. After introducing this system, Napoleon once said that he never understood the metric system, and this is not surprising because it is so complex and confusing. I noticed recently that the English Jockey Club reversed its decision to go metric. It is going back to furlongs, stones and pounds. It has had metres and kilograms. Metric measurements, as I said, are the most awkward measurements capable of being used. They are very difficult to divide by anything except 2 or 5 and fractionally they become quite unmanageable. The rim sizes of all motor cars throughout the world, including French cars, are still measured in inches. I noticed, as an example of the way in which inflation has been kicked along by the metrication system, that a small sauce bottle, the 13 oz bottle, half the size of the normal 26 oz bottle, has become in fact a 400 millilitre bottle, the equivalent of a 10.5 oz bottle in fact, but the price remains the same. For the same amount of money consumers are getting 2.5 oz less of the product contained. I could refer to many areas of commerce, industry and everything else where metrication is boosting inflation which already is galloping at 14 per cent, largely or partly due to the action of this Government. 
Last week the Victorian Minister for Housing introduced the first of the new metric houses. Instead of the ceiling height being the standard 8 feet, because it has to be in metres it has been dropped 1.5 inches. The ceiling height under metric measurements is the equivalent of 7 ft 10.5 inches. I know that some Australian Labor Party leaders are interested in abandoning the metric system. I understand that no less a man than  Mr Egerton  was discussing the matter at the races a week ago. He found that he could not understand the kilo weights allotted to the horses. He found that most punters were likewise affected and had no idea of the weights involved. I am informed also that a senior Cabinet Minister in the Labor Government would be willing to see metrication abandoned. I do not have time to run through the effects on the milk industry, postage and many other matters where, because of going metric, inflation has been given even a greater head then it had already. I have not had the opportunity of examining what may be just a very bald assertion from the Australian Antimetric Association which believes that metrication is the major cause of Australia's inflation. I cannot agree with that belief in toto but it is an interesting thought from people who have given the matter considerable study. 
I noticed that in the Speech from the throne there was talk about the restraint of monopolies which in essence is a good thing. I spoke about it as long ago as August 1956. Unfortunately some of the worst monopolies in the country will not be dealt with because they are monopolies of labour. The big unions are capable now of terrorising the community in a way that a big employer or big organisation cannot do. I heard  Senator Lawrie  refer to the control taken over building by certain unions. The unions decide what shall go up and what shall not go up. Being a democrat I always had thought that these decisions were to be taken by the duly elected government but apparently that is a thought which does not commend itself to honourable gentlemen opposite. I would be prepared to support any clause in the Government's new Bill dealing with trade practices if it made a sane and intelligent approach to controlling monopolies of labour. 
The Queen's Speech referred to the better use of manpower resources. To me this has an ominous ring. It has overtones of industrial conscription. Industrial conscription has raised its ugly head in places where the reference has been far less specific. We remember the Allied Works Council, and matters associated with it, during the war. I think this is a matter which warrants very careful examination as it comes before this chamber. A great deal of nonsense has been spoken about Australian ownership and control of its natural resources. Most of it has been chauvinistic nonsense. If it had not been for the assistance given to this country by the wicked multi-national corporations in developing its mineral resources we probably would have little or no petrol at the moment. 
At present 70 per cent of our petrol comes from the Esso-BHP operation in Bass Strait. If it had been left to the present administration to make successful searches for oil we certainly would have gone without. The changes which have been made by the new so-called Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  seem largely to be designed to have no fuel and no energy. I think that  Mr Connor  should get a medal from our bitterest enemies for the way in which he has practically destroyed any fresh search for petroleum products. On figures produced by the industry last week there has been a 40 per cent drop in drilling for oil in Australia since  Mr Connor  took over and there has been virtually a 100 per cent abandonment of new searches for oil since the drilling subsidy was abandoned. It seems that this Minister virtually has strangled our oil exploration. 
The abolition of the bounty on superphosphate and nitrogenous fertilisers has taken place at an extremely strange time. It has occurred when food costs are rising. The Government is removing the bounty on something which is used to increase production. We have heard a lot also about the Senate being a mere chamber of obstruction. That statement will not stand up. I think 254 Bills have been introduced and we have stopped 10. If ever the people of Australia have been glad of the existence of the Senate it has been since 2 December 1972. 1 believe that we, like Nelson's fleet, at least have been able to stand between the Australian people and the arrogant abuse of dictatorial power. Inflation, running at 4.5 per cent when we left office, is now running at 1 4 per cent. It is a little odd for the present Government to claim that inflation is imported since not one of the western developed countries has an inflation rate equal to 14 per cent. The rate in Germany is about 8 per cent and in America 6 per cent. Even the Japanese have only 10 per cent. How then can we import inflation at a rate of 14 per cent? It just does not make sense. 
Some mention must be made of the recent trip to South East Asia by the Prime Minister. He visited 16 countries- Singapore, Malaysia, Burma, Laos, Thailand and the Philippines. A most extraordinary omission was that he did not go to Vietnam where Australian soldiers have fought and died and where until recently, of course, Australian was an honoured name. We now have a Prime Minister who goes all around South East Asia and omits this one country. It would not surprise you,  Mr Deputy President,  that that country is a strong anti-communist country. 
It could well be as  Senator Lillico  says, that the Prime Minister would not like to offend  Chairman  Mao by being seen with  President  Thieu but he does not mind giving a luncheon for a KGB general. If there is anything lower that a KGB general, I would like to know what it is. At a time when the rest of the civilised world is revolted by the treatment that the KGB handed out to Solzhenitsyn, what does the Australian Government do here? We slap his flags up in front of Parliament House and give him an official luncheon. What sort of interest does a government like that have in human rights? The Government has shown its true colours. Last year we had the example of 3 delegates from the Vietcong and 3 from North Vietnam, being feted here in Parliament House. Some of the worst aggressors in this century are fawned upon by this administration. But, of course, they have to be tough. As I mentioned before, we cannot have Rhodesian girl guides here; that might contaminate the community. We cannot have South African boy scouts here; that would be a disaster. We cannot play tennis against South Africa. But we can have a KGB general here. What hypocrites Government supporters are. 
Before concluding, I suppose, in a burst of honesty, I must concede that in a Cabinet of twenty-seven you cannot have 27 duds, no matter how hard you try. 
They have gone very close; but as a matter of honesty, I have no hesitation in saying that I commend the attitude of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  whose answers to questions on primary production matters have been enlightening. Oddly enough, despite the fact that other members of Cabinet could not care less about the primary producer and despite the fact that the Labor Government is not the least bit interested in the man on the land,  Senator Wriedt  appears, so far as I can make out from reports, to have battled with at least moderate success for the man on the land. 
That is my opinion, and I do not care who opposes it. That is my opinion and I stand by it. As I said, in a Cabinet of twenty-seven, you cannot have 27 duds. I have no hesitation in commending the Minister for the Media,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who has brought a fresh, open mind to the problems of the media. I do not agree with all that he has said and done in that regard; but, in particular, I applaud his decision to refer the question of frequency modulation broadcasting to a new independent inquiry. If I read between the lines in the 'Financial Review' correctly, his decision may result in a very substantial benefit to Australia. As a result of work done by the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, the new inquiry may very well recommend that we go into the very high frequency band instead of the ultra high frequency band, which, in the long run, will save Australia some millions of dollars. I regret that I have had to be so critical of the speech prepared by  Mr Freudenberg  and approved by  Mr Whitlam;  but what is there to praise? Almost nothing. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Science aware that the British Jockey Club which controls racing in Great Britain converted to metric measurements but the Club and punters found those units so unmanageable that the Club has now reverted to the imperial measures of yards, pounds and stones? Will the Minister take heed from this significant warning and, as with frequency modulation, conduct a second inquiry before going ahead with the colossal cost of metrication? 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media, ls it fact that the Australian Post Office has let a $2,400 contractquite a small contract- to an American company to make a training film entitled 'How to lose your best customer without really trying'? Is it a fact that  Dr Cairns, Mr Whitlam  and other Cabinet Ministers have been allotted starring roles in the film? If so, in view of the low cost of the film, will they be appearing without fee? Is it not a fact that a short instructional film of this nature could easily have been made by an Australian company or by Film Australia? Can the Minister say whether any opportunity was given to an Australian company or Film Australia to meet this requirement? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Can the Senate assume from his answer to  Senator Withers  that there is some truth in current Press suggestions that the Government will agree to a joint AustralianRussian base in Australia or grant the provision of what is euphemistically called 'extensive scientific facilities'? If this is so, does the Minister recall that even the very tolerant British Government was compelled to expel 105 so-called Soviet diplomats as spies only about 2 years ago? In view of the possible danger to our ANZUS Treaty relationships with the United States of America and New Zealand, will the Minister give an assurance that the Russian overtures will be rejected? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, which may surprise him as it refers to  Senator Gair's  appointment as Ambassador to Ireland. Am I to take it that, according to the Minister's statement,  Senator Gair  became the Ambassador about 14 March. If that is so, does it not mean that we now have 2 ambassadors to Ireland? If we have 2 ambassadors to Ireland, surely this is leaning over backwards to please the Irish people. 
Australia's Foreign Minister  (Senator Willesee)  has just delivered an abject apology for the Government's lack of any defence or foreign policy. One can sum up what he said by saying: 'Atomic weapons are terrible things, therefore we do not need any defence or foreign policy'. What he does not appreciate of course is that millions of men, women and children have been killed by conventional weapons from conventional aggressors ever since World War II ended. If I were a used car salesman and I wanted to get rid of a bomb, I would have the Minister very high on my list because I think he would believe anything. Anyone who believes that the cold war situation has been completely cured just knows nothing about international relationships. It is a great pity that the honourable senator happens to be our Foreign Minister or at least our nominal Foreign Minister. It is not true to say that, as he said the arms limitation talks have been a success. The Strategic Arms Limitation Talks No. 1 have achieved partial success, the SALT talks No. 2 have been completely unsuccessful. Not that it matters a great deal since the 2 super powers- the United States and the Soviet Union- have enough to overkill one another many times over. The obvious thing which this Government overlooks is that because of the balance of terror it is unlikely in the near future that atomic weapons will be used at all. It is highly probable that sophisticated conventional weapons will be used as they have been used ever since the Korean aggression in 1 950-53. 
The truth is that this Government is not interested in defence. The Army is in a parlous condition. There are, as  Senator McManus  pointed out, between only 5,000 and 6,000 men capable of bearing arms in the Australian Regular Army. We certainly could not put up the framework of one division. Whilst the Australian manufacture of hardware has been good and successful, much of it is old and badly in need of replacement. The question of replacement tanks has been under review for some considerable time. I do not blame this Government solely for the tank situation. It is a very complex and expensive matter which engaged the attention of the previous Government for some little time. This Government- and I will say this- has done a good deal to improve the conditions of service of men in the armed forces; but that has been its single, solitary contribution to defence. But despite improvement in wages and conditions, the resignation rate has increased. My recollection is that up to August last there had been 3 times as many resignations by Army officers as occurred in the whole of the previous year, the reason of course being that the Government not being interested in defence has conducted a policy by which Army officers can see that there is no future for them in the Service. Denis Warner, perhaps the most knowledgeable of all Australian comentators on defence and South-East Asian affairs, has pointed out in 3 articles in the Press the rock bottom to which Army morale has sunk; he did so not with pleasure but with great sadness. Warner has of course been sort of warned off by Government circles because of his outspoken criticisms in these matters. 
The Air Force has lost its third Mirage squadron and the Navy has been shorn of its 3 DDL destroyers. True, they had a long way to go; and it is true, as the Government said, they were not in essay. But to my way of thinking there is a vast difference- and perhaps the Minister at the table, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  will agree with me- between replacing 3 DDLs, which are virtually light cruisers, with 2 frigates, which I understand the Government plans to do. The frigates will have to be very smart indeed if they are to do the jobs of destroyers. At the moment it would be vaguely possible to put a small task force off the eastern coast of Australia. If we had to have an engagement with an enemy we would have to persuade that enemy to attack us on our eastern coast. 
I believe that we should have at least a task force off the western coast of Australia and that the Cockburn Sound base should be speeded up and made something rather more ample than a base suitable for 4 frigate-destroyer type vessels. This may sound old fashioned but I do not believe that aircraft carriers are out of date. Apparently the Soviet Union does not think so either because 2 months ago it launched a 45,000 ton carrier- and that of course will soon make its way into the Indian Ocean where we wish to preserve a zone of peace simply by saying that we like peace. I think that we should have a look at acquiring by lease- not necessarily by purchase- an aircraft carrier. Some of our friends- the British and the Americans- have had a number of servicable semi-modern aircraft carriers- certainly more modern than the carrier Melbourne'- available for lend lease. I believe that the Government should show some interest in acquiring another carrier which could at least be the nucleus of a task force if one is to operate off the western coast of Australia. I know that many consequential expenses would have to be met in connection with it, docking and servicing facilities and so on. I know that all that follows. But if this country is worth living in, it is certainly worth defending and making sure that we could at least repel the Seychelles Islands or the Maldive Islands if they turned nasty and attacked the country. At the moment it probably would not be on. 
We have heard of this 15-year period of peace which is to be vouchsafed to us. I do not know on what basis the Government fixed that figure. A fortnight ago Admiral Peek delivered a real torpedo to the Government's plans, which was followed at the weekend by Admiral McNicoll's blast on the Government's lack of planning in naval affairs. I would like to think that we are to have this 15 years of peace and that nothing can happen. Why it is 15 years instead of 14 or 16 years I do not know. But it is true that in 1937 Admiral  Sir Francis  Hyde, then Chief of the Naval Staff, announced that Australia had nothing to fear from any naval power, that our relations with Japan were satisfactory and that there was no danger of an attack from the Japanese. We know what happened within 4 years of  Sir Francis  Hyde making that pronunciamento; we were engaged in the life and death struggle with Japan. 
One would have thought that if the Government were genuinely interested in defence that when the Americans wanted to set up an installation as a very minor counter to the 20 Soviet ships- surface ships, that is; Lord knows how many submarines are operating in the Indian Ocean- it would have welcomed its friend. It calls America its friend sometimes, its ally when it needs it. One would have thought that the Government would have been delighted that the United States proposed to set up defence facilities at Diego Garcia. Instead, what does it do? It issues a blast at the Americans but says not a word about the Russians having patrolled the Indian Ocean for the past several years. When the Suez Canal is opened the Russian fleet will be within two to three days steaming of our trade routes across the Indian Ocean. 
Defence of course has to be associated with foreign policy. This Government has weakened ANZUS partly because at the 1971 Australian Labor Party congress at Launceston it was decided that ANZUS should be reduced to a social, cultural and economic arrangement. But even  Mr Barnard  says that ANZUS is an important pact. It was negotiated, to his everlasting credit, by  Sir Robert  Menzies in 1951 when that great Prime Minister was able to secure for Australia from the United States a guarantee of protection in peace time, a guarantee which has been given to no other country in peace time. 
We have become accustomed to hearing the word 'detente' used. It is a fashionable word. One hears talk of detente between the United States and the Soviet Union. In the first place, it is necessary to recognise that detente means the lessening of tension; it is far removed from rapprochement. The strategic arms limitation agreements have probably been cited more often than anything else as a breakthrough in relationships between the 2 super powers. These agreements have been misunderstood, since both powers already have sufficient nuclear weapons to destroy themselves and the world several times over. The Government has failed in its attempt. Its so-called independent foreign policy has been a fraud and a delusion. All that has happened is that it has been rude and insulting to our friends, and it has picked up a few dubious acquaintances. In all these circumstances, it is clear that the complaint of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  is valid. I support it and I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. In view of the rather secretive legal method of appointing ambassadors extraordinary adopted by this Government, could I be advised whether there is any truth in a Sydney Press report that I am now the Ambassador Extraordinary to Brazil? 
In directing my question to the Minister for the Media, I refer to the brief Press release in this morning's newspapers in relation to frequency modulation broadcasting. I congratulate the Minister on the speed with which he has moved and ask whether he is in a position to amplify the position in regard to the introduction of frequency modulation broadcasting so that the people concerned- manufacturers, merchants, and not excluding those people who make their own equipment- may be advised as to the best methods of assisting the introduction of this splendid system of broadcasting. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Why are Australian citizens who give their place of origin as Croatia refused Australian passports unless they substitute the word, Yugoslavia, which they find objectionable. 
Why are certain Australian citizens of Croatian origin who have never been charged or convicted of any crime refused Australian passports. 
-Before the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  made his dramatic announcement I was dealing with some aspects of the present Government's leadership which I thought should have been examined. I want to say that the imbroglio- the affair of  Senator Gair-  presumably was the last straw that broke the camel's back. 

 -Mr President, it gives me a good deal of pleasure to have the opportunity of addressing you and the happy smiling faces opposite who seem to be pretending that they are happy to be rushing down the Gadarene slopes to destruction.  Senator James  McCelland suggested that they were happy at this act of hara-kiri. He could have fooled me, as Leader of the National Liberal Party. He could have fooled many members of the parent party as well. I do not have time, in the brief moments at my disposal, to traverse the inaccuracies of my friend,  Senator James  McClelland. But I do point out to him, if he wants to get his knowledge of history straight, that it was actually the geese who saved Rome by acting as sentinels. They awoke the nation; they awoke Rome. As a result of the warning which they issued, the Roman nation was saved from the barbarians. I do not suggest that we are a lot of cackling geese; but that is the historical background to it, if the honourable senator really wants to know. 
To get to the circumstances of this debate- a very serious decision is posed to the Senate, and it is one that should not be dealt with in a frivolous or flippant manner at all. We have the undoubted authority of  Senator Murphy,  who must be ranked as one of the great constitutional lawyers of our day and one of the most erudite gentlemen to act as Leader of the Government in this chamber; and in his opinion it is utterly right that an Opposition which has the numbers in this chamber to do so, should reject taxation measures or money Bills. No one will argue with the constitutional provisions, and I will come back to them later. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is, I understand, toying with the idea of having a double dissolution. This was mentioned a little earlier in this debate. He is very found of likening himself to Napoleon, for some reason which completely escapes me. I recall that, when it was announced that the date of the last Federal election would be 2 December,  Mr Whitlam  said that that suited him because that was the date on which Napoleon overcame a ramshackle coalition at Austerlitz. Of course, what  Mr Whitlam  had forgotten was that, despite Austerlitz, it was the - 
May I finish on Austerlitz? I point out that this Senate has stood, like Nelson's fleet, between the nation and dictatorship. Only the Senate has prevented a total dictatorship from existing in this country. I remind you,  Mr President,  that in fact it was the Russians who prepared the downfall of Napoleon in 1 8 1 2, and it could well be the Russians and their desire to set up a base in Australia in 1974 which will bring about the downfall of this modern Napoleon. We know that Napoleon was destroyed at Waterloo. The more I look at  Senator Withers  and the more I observe his material bearing, his distinct mien and his incisive orders, the more I think that he is looking more and more like the Duke of Wellington every day. 
In those circumstances, provided I am given the opportunity to explain the position of the National Liberal Party, of course I agree. I therefore seek leave to continue my remarks at a later time. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
