Is the Minister for the Capital Territory aware that as a result of a competition launched by the previous Government, it is intended to construct a memorial to Walter Burley Griffin on top of Mount Ainslie, the mountain opposite this House? Is the Minister aware that the cost of construction of such a memorial would be $ 100,000? Does the Minister feel that such expenditure is appropriate at this time? 
Has the attention of the Minister Assisting the Treasurer been drawn to recent comments that age 60 contributors to the present superannuation scheme, particularly those with long service, will be forced under the new scheme to continue working to age 65 to qualify for a full pension? If so, are these age 60 contributors being disadvantaged by the proposed pension supplement arrangements? 
I introduce my maiden speech with 2 quotes which were powerful influences on my deciding to seek preselection for the seat of Canberra and hence on my being here tonight. The first is: 
An individual's life is not always the same as society's. The collective does not always assist the individual. Each person has an abundance of problems which the collective cannot resolve. A person is a physiological and spiritual being before he becomes a member of his society. 
The second quote is: 
The basic principle which distinguishes liberalism from socialism is that Liberals believe maximum freedom from dictation and regulation is essential to self-respect and selffulfilment. People want self-respect above all. Without freedom there is no self-respect. They want freedom to strive and to achieve and to seek excellence- freedom to be different and freedom to conform. 
I read both of these statements during 1975 at a time when I, like so many others in this country, was very worried about the direction in which we were heading. The first quote comes from Alexander Solzhenitsyn and the second from a statement on Liberal philosophy by the then Leader of the Opposition, our Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Both captured for me that cornerstone of man's very existence, the right of an individual to express himself. I ruminated on these words at a time when the dark shadow of arrogant Labor socialism was looming over us all, when increasingly we were being told what was good for us rather than being asked, when social causes were being confused with mindless vendettas and power-drunk men were thrusting the course of Australian life in a direction that their own prejudice dictated rather than in the direction that the Australian people wanted. 
The election on 13 December demonstrated beyond question the contempt and revulsion that middle Australia felt for the abuse of power which was convulsing this lucky country. The record majority that the Liberal and National Country Parties have in government is not just a result of ham-handed economic mismanagement of a succession of Labor Treasurers. It is the result of a massive cry by middle Australians that they would not be told what was good for them by doctrinaire socialists and ivory tower academics. Those honourable members who have large migrant communities in their electorates, as I have in Canberra, will understand better than anyone else the fear that was abroad in this land. How many times did we hear the comments: 'I have seen it all before' and: 'Where can I go next'? These were not the pleas of so-called bloated capitalists but the cries of people who wanted to be left to themselves to strive and achieve, to be given the right to express themselves, to enjoy their families and not to be told: 'Give me your earnings. I will spend them for you. You don't really know what you want. Trust me. I know best.' 
Middle Australia placed its trust in the Whitlam Government in 1972 and gave it a second chance in 1974. But the Labor Government did not learn from its mistakes. Instead it compounded them and the people poured such scorn upon it as has never been seen in our 75 years of federation. That is why the Government benches are filled to overflowing on a division and I suspect that the realisation by the Opposition of the correctness of the people's judgment is the reason that for most of the time in the last week or so we have had only one or two representatives of the Australian Labor Party in this chamber during debates. They are completely demoralised. For the first weeks of this Parliament they purged their collective conscience by vomiting bile and heaping scorn on the Governor-General. He was a convenient scapegoat for their stupidity and blindness but as time passes it is becoming abundantly clear from spokesmen for the Parliamentary Labor Party and some fellow travelling journalists that the only real criticism of the Governor-General they can muster is that they thought they had him in their pocket. They did not. No one did. His socalled crime was that he did not tell them what he was going to do. 
I have enormous pride in being in this Parliament but I am somewhat overawed by the responsibility which rests on the shoulders of the Government Parties. The strength and experience of the front bench, coupled with an almost daunting depth of youthful vigour and drive on the back benches, must assure purposeful and workmanlike government. We must harness this power house for the whole of Australia. We must be a truly liberal Government. We must reestablish the economy of this rich and vigorous country and then carefully press forward with social welfare, health and education policies which will ensure that this country is second to none. We must not reel back from the last 3 years of social change. We must not be too proud to select and seize some of those numerous programs which the Whitlam Government innovated but mismanaged. We must take some of those programs forward with proper management and control and we must ensure that those who push the forces of conservatism operate only as a tempering influence on our youthful exuberance. As Alvin Tomer notes in his book  Future Shock: 
There is a danger that those who treasure the  status quo  may seize upon the concept of future shock to argue for a moratorium on change. Not only would any such attempt to suppress change fail, triggering even bigger, bloodier and more unmanageable changes than any we have seen, it would be moral lunacy as well. By any set of human standards, certainly radical social changes are already desperately overdue. The answer to future shock is not non-change but a different kind of change. 
The changes we will have to bring will respect the right of the individual, will be managed properly and will be implemented only when our economy can safely underpin them and ensure their continued viability. We must mobilise the resources of this bountiful country for the good of all and ensure especially that those who dp not have the opportunity to achieve, because of deprivation, whether through accident of birth, intellect, health or plain bad luck, are assisted to a more fulfilling life. 

 Mr Speaker, I pass on to my electorate of Canberra. Before doing so, I congratulate you on being elected to your high and honourable position. I ask you to pass on to  Mr Deputy Speaker  my formal congratulations on his appointment. As honourable members would know, the seat of Canberra was created in 1974 when the former seat of the Australian Capital Territory was split in two. The Australian Capital Territory seat was first held by an Independent,  Dr Nott,  from 1949 to 1951, when it was won by Jim Fraser. Jim Fraser would be known to many members of this House. He was a man loved by all who had the good fortune to know him. He held the seat for almost 19 years. During that period he set an example to all parliamentarians oh how elected representatives should look after their electorates. When he died in 1970 this city and the Parliament lost one of its great men. A city that has so many times been called soulless and cynical literally stopped. He was, I believe, the only Federal back bench politician ever to be accorded the honour of a State funeral. The then Prime Minister John Gorton, said of him: 
I know that there was no meanness or pettiness or spite anywhere about him. Though he was prepared to fight for what he thought was right, he was not prepared to bear malice. He will be sadly missed by members of this House. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  supported the then Prime Minister and said: 
He had to act as Canberra's mayor, senator and ombudsman. Even more, it was in his character and part of his nature to believe that the problems of people- his people- were his own. 
My honour in taking this seat comes not so much from having defeated the former AttorneyGeneral who held the seat for 5 years but from following a man such as Jim Fraser. It is with much humility and pride that I will attempt to emulate his service to the community. I also take some pleasure in noting that I am currently sharing a room in the House with the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  who so ably led the Address-in-Reply debate and whose seat, as honourable members would know, was held for 26 years by Allan Fraser, the brother of Jim Fraser. 
Now I pass on to a little history of this fair city of Canberra, for the benefit of those new members who do not know it well and of those members who regard it more as a place of work than as a second home-. The first white men to see what is now the Australian Capital Territory were  Dr Charles  Throsby and his convict overseer, Joseph Wild. Throsby was an ex-naval surgeon turned grazier and explorer. He had a grant near Liverpool. With Hamilton Hume and Wild he did a large share of the exploration of the southern district. Wild was an illiterate Londoner who developed a quite extraordinary flair as a bushman. As long ago as 19 August 1820 Wild discovered Lake George. In October of the same year Governor Macquarie, accompanied by Surveyor-General Oxley and Bigge, made an excursion to the new discovery. While they were there, Throsby and Wild, with a constable named Vaughan, pushed on south in search of the Murrumbidgee, of which they had heard from the Aborigines. They failed to discover it but reached the Yass River, which the Aborigines called the Boongaroom, and probably passed over the northern end of what is now the Australian Capital Territory. Their reconnaissance was at once followed by the sending of Wild and Vaughan and a young nephew of Throsby's, Charles Throsby Smith, with a month's provisions, to locate the Murrumbidgee. They crossed a stony range separating Lake George from Canberra and reached a hill somewhere near Gungahlin, whence they saw what is now the site of Canberra. They camped, probably near Duntroon. The next morning Smith and Vaughan went down the river and climbed Black Mountain. In the afternoon Wild and Smith followed the river up to Queanbeyan. The following day they started back, Smith being satisfied that the Murrumbidgee was imaginary. Throsby returned in 1821. After traversing the plains which are now the site of Canberra, he reported: 
I am happy to report that the country in general is superior to that we passed through with His Excellency the Governor in November last; it is perfectly sound, well watered, with extensive meadows of rich land on either side of the rivers; contains very fine limestone in quantities perfectly inexhaustible, slate sandstone and granite fit for building, with sufficient timber for every useful purpose: And, from the appearance of the country, an unbounded extent to the westward. 
The area was developed by many intrepid pioneers who enjoyed its pleasures and challenges. 
There was then the historical squabble, about the time of Federation, as to where the national capital should be. In 1907 the Leader of the Labor Party, J. C. Watson, after an exploratory visit to the area, painted a glowing word picture: 
There is the plain in the centre, and foothills all around, varying the general appearance of the country; and beyond that, after further rolling foothills, we have on the south-west  and south the Murrumbidgee mountains, towering as a background and providing a most effective foil to the other scenery ... In the vicinity there are mountain gorges, which afford every diversity of scenery, and I have been informed by trout fishers that there are most interesting places in the heart of the Murrumbidgee mountains, full of beauty, and within a short distance of the suggested site. I do not say that picturesqueness alone should decide the question; but, other things being equal, I think that the beautiful ought to turn the scale. 
In 1908 the Y ass-Canberra area was selected as the official choice for our national capital. In 1909 the Seat of Government Act was passed. Surveyor C. R. Scrivener was instructed to investigate the site. His orders noted: 
The surveyor will bear in mind that the Federal capital should be a beautiful city, occupying a commanding position with extensive views, and embracing distinctive features which will lend themselves to the evolution of a design worthy of the object, not only for the present, but for all time; consequently the potentialities of the site will demand most careful consideration from an hygienic standpoint, with a view to securing picturesqueness, and also with the object of beautification and expansion. 
He undoubtedly did his choosing well, and the present site was recommended and accepted. I do not intend to canvass in full the development of this fair city. However, I do note that the city is not only the national capital of Australia but also a growth centre experiencing many of the difficulties that faster than average growth can cause. This is the first and foremost city of Australia, and we should not forget that fact. Its special position is seen from the fact that over 1 750 000 proud Australians visited the city in 1975. It is a city of people, especially young people. It is not just a city of public servants but a city of shopkeepers, builders, tradesmen, motor mechanics, accountants and farmers. Contrary to popular opinion, only 25 per cent of the population is employed in the Public Service. I do not intend to speak tonight of the importance to Australia of a strong, vital and independent Public Service, as I will have a better opportunity to do so in the debate on the Superannuation Bill later this week. 
Canberra is a modern city and, in the main, a new city. It has now reached the point of selfsustained growth, with a population approaching 200 000. Contrary to the public view of those who visit us, it is not a pampered, subsidised oasis in a desert of impoverished taxpayers. We pay rates in line with the average of other State capitals. I am advised that even in these difficult times of inflation and high wages the deficit on the municipal account is not great and is well in line with the performances of comparable local governments. At a time when the need to prune and control government expenditure is upon us, we in Canberra feel a little threatened, but we have taken great heart during the last few weeks that many of the dire predictions being made by mischief makers who have not heeded the lessons of the last 3 years and who seem oblivious of the needs of responsible government are not coming to pass. We see problems for Canberra, as for other areas of development and enterprise, over the next year or so; but I am confident that this period of enforced consolidation is what the people who elected me see as being needed. 
Like the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  I have some fears of the power of the accountants and economists in the Treasury; but the people of my electorate and those millions of Australians who share my pride in the national capital may rest assured that I will keep a close watch on the 'Wheeler* dealers and leave no 'Stone' unturned in ensuring that the National Capital Development Commission has the right 'Powell' to see that this city is 'Engledowed' with proper community facilities and that there are no 'Blunnders' in our management. I support the motion moved by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro and oppose the amendment. 
Is the Minister for the Capital Territory aware that there has been an industrial dispute concerning the running of buses in the Australian Capital Territory? Is he aware that over the last 2 weekends since the dispute has been settled there have been no buses on Saturday afternoons and Sundays? When will normal bus services be restored? 
I rise to support the passage of the Superannuation Bill, the Superannuation Amendment Bill and the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Amendment Bill. I believe that on the whole they are good Bills and are a major step forward in the conditions of employment in the Australian Public Service and the armed forces. The history of the introduction of the Superannuation Bill has been well canvassed in this, debate. During the recent election campaign this piece of legislation was a major issue in the Australian Capital Territory and we spent a lot of time explaining our proposals to the electorate. The scheme was explained in pamphlets and newspaper advertisements. Discussions were held with the unions involved and, in general, there was a measure of understanding and perhaps reluctant agreement that, while our proposal did not represent the ideal, it was a fair and just scheme and a real improvement on the current scheme. I commend the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and the officers supporting him for the speedy introduction of this complex legislation. 
One major criticism that I have found from constituents has been a claim by young and junior employees that their contributions will be higher. This is because their current contributions are less than the S per cent of salary that is to be contributed under the proposed scheme. The other major claim by constituents is that the right to retire at 60 years of age has been removed. The first claim is true for a large percentage of public servants, but to assist them the increase in contributions has been staged so that the increase will be phased in over time. I think that this is an equitable way of introducing the new scheme. These employees will realise quickly, as their salaries increase, that there are benefits in the scheme. They will never reach the invidious position, being experienced by a large number of public servants, of having to pay a high proportion of any increase in salary in superannuation contributions. What young person would like to find that on reaching the age of 58 years at the class 4 level he was expected to pay 13 per cent of his salary in superannuation contributions, or, if at the class 9 level at 57 years ofage, up to 39 per cent of his salary? 
The claim that the right to retire at 60 years of age has been removed is not true. That right will be available but at a lower pension and with lower contributions. I emphasise the point about lower contributions. On balance there will be a better scheme for all. Forty-three constituents have inquired of me over the last 2 weeks about particular problems they have found in this legislation. I have checked out each of those inquiries and inevitably, given their particular requirements, some people think that they will be disadvantaged; but, on the whole, my judgmentI think this judgment has been supported by those experienced departmental officers who have answered queries- is that the scheme will make most public servants better off. 
We must remember that the right to superannuation is probably the most important right for our public servants. They now have salaries at levels which are very competitive with those paid elsewhere in the community. They have security of employment at a time when approximately 250 000 people are out of work. When we consider this package- superannuation, salary and working conditions- I believe that Commonwealth public servants are treated very fairly by the taxpayers of this nation. I worked in the Public Service for more than 5 years, and I will not fail to praise and defend the work of the Australian public servants and the work they do for the people of Australia. The strength of the nation, until the last 3 years, is a testimony to the effectiveness of the unprejudiced and professional advice that successive governments have received from the Australian Public Service. Once a government rejects the concept of professionalism that I experienced in the Public Service it enters a minefield of terrifying proportions. If it appoints people who are already fixed in their ideas and employs outsiders who bring little real experience to their jobs the risks are enormous. 
I would like to make one point very strongly tonight in relation to the future. I am sorry to say that it is in relation to the medium term future and not the immediate future, due to the difficult state in which we find our economy. Those who have worked in the Public Service know of many people who, for various reasons, have reached a level which is probably their pinnacle of achievement. Often this happens in middle age. What is left for these people? Often, after 20 years of doing the same thing or feeling that they do not contribute and seeing the bright young people pass them by, they know that they have the experience to contribute to the wealth of Australia but they are unable to do so. They need a change. They do not wish to continue in their present employment. I hope that when we get this country going again we in government will be able to look very closely at a system of early retirement for the Public Service. The defence forces have such an arrangement to enable those who have served this country well to retire with a minimum of disruption and disadvantage to themselves and their families. It is inhuman to have any system of employment which causes people to be locked into that system in a way that does not allow them to leave without substantial detriment. A system of employment should not encourage people to leave, but it should not discourage them from leaving. The social cost and the money cost of having people going through the motions of working are enormous. In days of higher wages the greatest investment this nation makes is in the people who work for it. It behoves us all to ensure that this investment is well used, that it bears fruit, and that the enormous social responsibility involved in employing thousands of people is well handled. 
Employees of all ages are clamouring now to find those meanings, purposes, fulfilments, achievements and involvements which vindicate their personal existence and release them from the terrors of anonymity, alienation and boredom. If job experiences do not provide satisfactory answers to the question 'Who am I?' the worker is diminished, whatever may be his status in the pyramid. To dream the impossible dream and to strive towards its fulfilment are activities which indicate health and growth, but these human virtues are diminished or annihilated when the organisational pyramid becomes a tomb for people whose vitality has been stifled by the system. I am certain that the trust that public servants placed in me in electing me to this House will be vindicated in the new superannuation scheme. I will take pleasure in working towards improvements in that scheme to allow public servants who wish to try a second career the flexibility to do so. Having myself left the Public Service to become a commercial lawyer and now a member of Parliament, I can recommend the stimulation of it all. However, I did so under a superannuation scheme which offered positive discouragement in the transition. The social and financial cost of having in the Public Service people who are dissatisfied or disillusioned is enormous. The cost of allowing these people reasonable severance so that they can get back into the work force, stimulated and enriched, is not high. Many have served their country well and have done their share. They deserve a chance to change horses. I will take pleasure in working towards such a scheme. 
I commend the new superannuation scheme and speak against the amendment because I believe that the work that has been done has ensured equity. On balance contributors and the people of Australia will be much advantaged by this scheme.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I speak in favour of the Bill. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Government houses and flats were built or purchased by the Government in the Australian Capital Territory in each of the years 1972-73, 1973-74 and 1974-75. 
How many residential blocks were serviced and handed over to the Department in each of the same years. 
How many Government homes and flats are to be built or purchased by the Government in the Australian Capital Territory in each of the years 1975-76, 1976-77 and 1977-78. 
How many residential blocks are to be serviced and handed over to the Department in each of the same years. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many persons were arraigned at trials or were indicted in the Supreme Court of the A.C.T. in 1 975. 
How many civil actions in the Supreme Court of the A-C.T. proceeded to judgment following a hearing in 1975. 
How many persons were awaiting trial upon indictment in the Supreme Court of the A.C.T. as at 16 February 1976. 
How many civil actions were certified by the parties as ready for trial in the Supreme Court of the A.C.T. as at 16 February 1976. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Following the recent Premiers Conference it was widely reported that the State Premiers were very pleased with the financial arrangements they had made with the Commonwealth Government on behalf of their respective States. The Prime Minister would be aware that the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are not represented at that conference. Can the Prime Minister assure the people of those Territories that they will be similarly pleased with the financial arrangements to be made on their behalf? I would like to assure honourable members on the Opposition side that I, as a resident of Canberra, have a deeply entrenched personal interest in this matter. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) How many buses travel in the express bus lane on Adelaide Avenue on weekdays between the hours of ( a ) 8.00 a.m. to 9.00 a.m. northbound and (b) S.00 p.m. to 6.00 p.m. southbound. 
How many passengers are carried in those buses during those times. 
How many cars travel along Adelaide Avenue on weekdays between the hours of (a) 8.00 a.m. to 9.00 a.m. northbound and ( b ) S.00 p.m. to 6.00 p.m. southbound. 
How many drivers and passengers are carried in those cars during that period. 
What was the complete cost of research, design, construction and road line marking of the express bus lanes constructed in Adelaide Avenue and Yarra Glen. 
-This Bill represents an important step forward in the continuing development of Australia's armoury for the earning of essential export income and overseas currency and for its efforts to contribute to the development of the industrial strength of its less developed neighbours. Honourable members would appreciate that it was some 20 years ago when a Liberal-National Country Party government established the Export Payments Insurance Corporation to assist Australian ex- porters to insure their overseas trade. Over the last 20 years the Corporation has expanded steadily. It is now one of the most respected organisations of its type in the world. In its earlier years it took on the more secure business, and over the time the Government has backed it with guarantees in the more difficult areas or non-commercial risk. Gradually the Corporation has matured and grown, and with wider claims experience and better knowledge of our markets it has been able to take on more and more of the risk. 
The Export Finance and Insurance Corporation has acquired an enormous range of experience in this field and it is now the Government's pleasure to show its trust and appreciation of the Corporation's work by handing over even more responsibility to it. On outward appearances the Bill appears to be a mere machinery measure but in reality it is an indication to the Corporation and our investors that this Government has great faith in the management and skill of the Corporation. The present legislation requires that all applications for investment insurance be submitted to the Miniter for Overseas Trade for approval. The principal amendments proposed would empower the Corporation to transact the more routine business on its commercial account without the need to refer individual applications to the Minister for decision. And so it should be for a corporation of the standing and experience of EFIC. Naturally where applications fall outside the ambit of commercial risk and the Government has to accept liability the proposition is still to be looked at the by the Minister. 
In passing I would say how pleased I am to see this measure and to be able to speak to it, for as a member of the Department of Trade and Industry in the mid-1960s I did a considerable amount of work on the initial introduction of the overseas investment insurance scheme. At that time Australia was the fourth country to establish such a scheme. For many years the Corporation merely acted as the Government's agent for investment insurance. I commend the Opposition for its amending the scheme in 1974 when it allowed the Corporation to underwrite investment insurance along commercial lines on its own account but, of course, under the watchful eye of the Minister. 
The role of Australia in the trade of the world is well established, so well established that it is no longer popular to speak on matters of export and export incentive. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  noted in his statement on the world situation, we are ranked fifteenth in the world as a trading nation. We have seen our exports change from a massive dependence on farm products to a mixture of farm products and manufacturing and now to massive mineral exports plus farm products and a still growing manufacturing effort. As one who worked for more than S years in the large and effective Department of Trade I feel some anger in seeing what the disgraceful mismanagement of our economy over the last 3 years has led to in the manufacturing area. The massive cost spiral has made it almost impossible for numbers of our manufacturers to sell competitively overseas. Hard won export markets have evaporated so quickly when they took so much painstaking effort to build. Because of the mismanagement of successive Labor Treasurers we are faced with quite extraordinary decisions in bringing our economy under control. It is with considerable anguish that I noted the ministerial announcement concerning the reduction in government expenditure on such essential programs as the export market development grants scheme. I was pleased, however, to see that economic measures have been designed to minimise the impact on the smaller exporters. 
We have been forced to reduce expenditure on the encouragement of investment overseas by Australian corporations. Perhaps this is not so serious as increasingly our Australian companies are being forced to set up manufacturing facilities overseas because of the increased cost of production in Australia. Other essential programs which I note with anguish that have had to be ended or cut involve the consulting services feasibility study fund and a limitation on the funding of the export finance facility of EFIC. I hope that the Australian trading bank system will be able to pick up the slack. 
I remember that as an officer of the Department of Trade and Industry in 1968 I was given the task of assisting in arranging National Export Week- a major joint effort between government and the private sector. At that time our balance of trade was in deficit. Our aim was to double Australia's exports in 10 years, from $3 billion to $6 billion. It was a major promotion and, I believe, a successful promotion. It was a truly joint effort between the community and government. This rich and hard-working country attained the goal in only S years. I might add with some pride that this was achieved under a Liberal-Country Party government. Perhaps we did too well. In 1972 when the spendthrift came to power these hard-won earnings, which placed this country in one of the strongest positions it has ever had in the trading sense, were quickly squandered. 
Much has been spoken in this chamber of the mismanagement of the domestic economy but a lot more should be said of what happened to the hard won and exemplary performance on visible trade items in our balance of trade. I trust that this relatively minor adjustment to our export armoury will encourage our business community to accept more readily the good sense of investing overseas and shows that it is in fact a normal commercial decision rather than some move shrouded in the mystery of government control and interference. I also trust it will encourage those who manage and work for the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation to understand the Government's support for their work. I commend the Bill. 
I support the Bill. I support many of the remarks made by my Canberra colleague, the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  who has given us an interesting talk on some positive and possible future fuel uses in the Australian Capital Territory. The Bill is predominantly a machinery measure. It brings the salary situation of senior officers of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority into line with that of comparable officers elsewhere. As the honourable member for Fraser has pointed out, the Bill does this on an equitable basis. I take the opportunity to commend the Authority for the fine work it is doing in Canberra at this time and to point out that in this fair national capital electricity is one of the cleanest and cheapest sources of energy. The Authority was set up in 1963 to serve the national capital, and has done so very well. Its costs of production, using about 75 per cent Snowy Mountains scheme electricity- the balance is picked up from the New South Wales grid- is very efficient. The efficiency of this body is well known. A measure of the efficiency of public utilities in Canberra is often seen in our schools, where over the last several years essential maintenance work has fallen a little behind and this has been a bone of contention with many school teachers. I am pleased to say that, whereas some maintenance work has been slow, on the whole the maintenance work done by the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority has been done quickly and efficiently. 1 commend the amendments contained in this Bill. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. It has been asserted that the Budget is a big business Budget. I represent the people of Canberra, where we have no big business. Is this a Budget for people or is it a mere accountancy exercise? 
I rise tonight to bring to the Parliament's notice a thoroughly mischievous and misleading Press release issued by the Council of Social Services of the Australian Capital Territory on Wednesday 1 8 August. I do so not to be offensive but because I am sincerely hurt and dismayed that an organisation such as this, which I have supported and helped, appears to be adopting a partisan attitude quite out of keeping with the friendly and helpful attitude I have experienced in the past from its officers and member organisations. The release speaks of Budget matters, praising some and criticising others. I am not at liberty to debate those matters tonight but I am at liberty to debate other matters which the release canvasses. These matters relate to Government policies already implemented in Canberra. 
I do not wish to hide the truth. Canberra has been asked to pay its way. Special privileges we have had during the years when it was necessary to induce people to live in Canberra have been removed. The people of Australia have asked that the Canberra community should no longer be offered a preferred position without regard to their incomes. We have been abruptly asked to face the realities of an economy that has been brought to its knees by the previous Government. This partisan and misleading Press release makes this extraordinary claim: 
The determination of the Government to make Canberra pay has resulted throughout this year in some fairly ^discriminate measures that have resulted in penalising the poor rather than a redistribution of resources. 
We have increased interest rates and rents in Canberra. There have been the normal sort of increases in charges that other communities in Australia have experienced. However, as the Council is well aware we have done this on the basis that the poor will be eligible for probably the most generous rebate system in this country. The measures undertaken have been directed to remove anomalies, not to increase them. The Council must know that the resources of Australia are severely limited at this time and we have the unenviable task of ensuring that those scarce resources go to those most in need. This is in line with the recommendations of the Henderson inquiry. 
I have personally gathered information from housing commissions and housing trusts interstate and I have found that the provisions for government welfare housing in Canberra are in line with or better than those in the States. We have taken over hostels from the Commonwealth hostel administration and established a range of government accommodation in Canberra from the low cost with rental rebate of $8 a week. We have provided a new house to the women's refuge when we found the existing accommodation to be inadequate. I have personally negotiated for the Woden community services group to be provided with an occasional care centre built at a cost of almost $250,000 plus an operating subsidy of over $28,000 plus assistance from the Woden traders of $2,000 per annum. We have ensured that Canberra gets it fair share of the new funds for aged persons' accommodation. On every front our measures in the area of social welfare have assisted the disadvantaged. 
The Press release in question claims that there has been a cutback in this community's standards of living. The people of Canberra have a standard of living second to none in Australia. We do have disadvantaged people and this Government cares for them. To suggest that they have been singled out is absolute nonsense. 
Earlier today the Prime Minister answered a question outlining the trial blazing national social reforms we have already implemented. I refer any person who accepts the facile points raised by the Council to that statement by the Prime Minister. The very Council that criticises us has received a $7,000 increase- that is an increase of 34 per cent- in its funding from the Government. As one who has supported this addition strongly, and one who has supported an 87.75 per cent increase in social welfare funding in the Australian Capital Territory, I felt obliged to rise tonight to answer this partisan and propagandist statement. 
I address my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations concerning apprenticeships. In doing so, with your indulgence,  Mr Acting Speaker,  I bring to the notice of this House that the Australian Capital Territory Apprentice of the Year award, which was made last night, went to Brian Griffin, who served his apprenticeship in this Parliament as a cook with the Joint House Department. 
-I rise to support the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Budget he has brought down for the Government. Much has been said about the Budget by earlier speakers in the debate, so I will not traverse its provisions in any detail. It is undoubtedly a good budget, a steady-as-she-goes budget, but not a document calculated to excite or stimulate controversy. The Opposition has tried hard to show that there are major deficiencies in the document, but it has done so without any real conviction. It is hard for it to do so with any integrity, as the major economic thrust of the Budget is in line with that taken under the Hayden Budget of 1975 in its attack on the surge of inflation. When one adds to that the quite remarkable initiatives that have been taken in social reforms, such as in regard to family allowances, automatic cost of living adjustments for pensioners, personal tax indexation, and an improved and workable Medibank which will not bankrupt the country, it is clear that we have introduced measures more sweeping than any even contemplated by the so-called Whitlam reform Government. 
The other important factor which the Government has been able to introduce into its budgetary armoury, because it does not suffer the debilitating psychological hang-ups of the Opposition, has been stimulation to the private sector. This Government recognises that a country cannot prosper without a highly productive sector. We know that miners, farmers and manufacturers are people, that they are all Australians willing, able and anxious to produce wealth to make this country great so that taxes can be levied and essential plans made and implemented for a better society. We have encouraged the miners to mine, the farmers to farm and the manufacturers to produce. We will, in spite of the irresponsible left wing extremists in some unions and universities, ensure that all Australians prosper. We are not for tax enforced redistribution of wealth from one sector of the economy to another; we are for the creation of wealth so that the whole community can prosper and be enriched. A rundown economy riddled with the cancer of inflation is not for this Government. 
Opposition speakers have tried hard over the last 10 months to raise needless fears in the community. They have promised that the wicked Government will cut expenditure on education, legal aid, Aborigines and on childhood, old people, and other welfare services. They have twisted and turned in the benches opposite in a sneaky, serpentine and slimy effort to mislead the Australian public. More recently we have had the disgraceful spectacle of a former Labor Treasurer attempting to debiliate the economy by flaming devaluation speculation- an act of economic sabotage. But they know and the people of Australia know that even in times of severe budgetary restraint we have, by our allocations in the Budget, indicated to the people of Australia that we are committed to restoring economic sanity while improving education, health and welfare programs. We are committed to improvement, which means effectiveness. We do not have the cheque book mentality of the wild philanderer who believes he can buy favours. We have a philosophy of workmanlike and conscientious government. 
How often over the last few months have we been criticised for what people thought we were going to do? How often has the reality of our programs when announced been met with silence and stony stares as Opposition members realised their efforts to mislead the Australian people can only undermine their own credibility in the electorate? The many gallant Perseuses on the benches around me have smitten the dreaded Medusa opposite. There are still some spluttering and convulsings from the vipers in the Labor movement but I hope that the responsible members of both the trade unions and the Parliamentary Labor Party will close ranks, rid themselves of those who would destroy the Australian way of life and reform themselves for the benefit of trade unions and Australia. This country needs a united and good Opposition, and we do not have that at the moment. 
There are many of us here in this Parliament for the first time and we are constantly reminded of this by honourable members opposite, but we have seen nothing from them to lead us to the belief that our security of tenure is being threatened. We see stupid political strikes, lack of cohesion, lacklustre leadership, unhelpful doctrinaire speeches and the sulky blaming of others for the plummeting from the sky of the great Icarus. I came to the Parliament proudly to be able to contribute to meaningful debate, to develop a better Australia. I am sad that after more than 6 months in this chamber I can only say that I have been occasionally amused but never enlightened by the contribution of honourable members opposite. 
Day after day the spokesmen for the Australian Parliamentary Labor Party revealed to the country why they were judged to be wanting and day by day the extreme left wing unions demonstrate to Australia that they do not care for their rank and file and the people of the country at all. They are still fighting the fight of the outdated texts of Marx, Lenin and Trotsky. Given the fact of an ineffective Opposition and a union movement that has not learned how to control its anarchists and Trotskyites, there is an enormous responsibility on this Government. We could easily become complacent. The Press daily fabricates evidence of back bench rebellion. We apparently have only ourselves to fear. I am proud to make it a matter of record that we are not complacent, our Ministers are working extraordinarily hard and effectively. They are accessible to back benchers and listen attentively and sympathetically to our suggestions and problems. 
We have taken many hard decisions and I have, as the member for Canberra, had to take more than my fair share of these. We have in Canberra been brought down to earth with a rude shock. Our spectacular growth rate has been checked and the fat that has developed from an overly rapid growth in the Public Service is being removed in a most unceremonious fashion. I regret that hard economic necessity has meant increased charges for government houses, for loans and for rents. These increased charges were recommended by the Labor Cabinet but rejected by Caucus. We have had the unpalatable task of rather rudely bringing Canberra into line with the rest of Australia. I am pleased to have been able, through representations and discussions with the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley),  to temper this economic necessity with the introduction of a flexible and thoughtful lower interest rate and rental rebate system which ensures that those people and families in Canberra needing special consideration are cared for by an understanding administration. 
There are very few people in Canberra who cannot get help and assistance from excellent cooperation between welfare, housing and community based organisations. There is still much to be done to underpin and expand in areas of need. We also recognise that only a healthy and vibrant economy can provide the resources our welfare agencies so properly call for. When we came into government in December last year we inherited an unemployment level in Canberra of 2.7 per cent- a level low by national standards but a level quite unaccustomed in this city. That level has stayed with us over the last 9 months and recently has increased to 3.2 per cent. 
There are good reasons for the economists not to be stampeded by this indicator. However, there are equally compelling reasons for examining ways to attack this problem which will not destroy the economic thrust of the Budget.  Senator Knight  and I have already prepared a submission to the Prime Minister on this problem and I seek leave to incorporate the recommendations of that report in  Hansard  as it is an important social document. 
-I was not going to cross swords with the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  until he said those nasty things about me, but we all know his thoughts on the simplistic approach to the world. 
Oh be it thus that Canberra could operate in the way he would like it to operate because we would have everybody in Australia living here as it would be such a jolly fine place. Fortunately the realities of life are such that the people of Australia and the people of Canberra want good administration, and that is why I am here today. 
I rise on behalf of the embattled people of Canberra; the people of Australia's national capital; the people who have built this jewel in Australia's crown; and the people who administered the affairs of this beautiful country. I do so to discuss the appropriation of funds for the running of the Australian Capital Territory, both as a city of 200 000 people, and as a city created to embody the aspirations of the whole nation. Much has been said over the last year in relation to Canberra. Much has happened in this city over the last 4 years to bring to Australia's notice the impact of government on the citizen. The people of Canberra have had uncertainty over the last 3 years, first from the erratic behaviour of the former Government and, more recently, from the quite traumatic experience of being told in no uncertain terms that they have to pull their weight in the quite enormous effort required to bring the Australian economy under control. 
During the period running up to the Government's first Budget a number of hard decisions were announced for the Australian Capital Territory. We saw the apparently savage impositions of Public Service staff ceilings. We saw the change of the very generous Commissioner for Housing loans scheme from a general incentive scheme for relocated public servants to a welfare scheme aimed predominantly at helping the people who are most in need of assistance. We have seen rents on government housing increased to ensure that it is a welfare scheme for those who need help rather than a handout to some people who have no claim to subsidised accommodation. We have seen a reintroduction of school bus fares, to place the Australian Capital Territory on the same footing as most other States. The people of the Australian Capital Territory, more than the people of any other community in Australia, have been asked to pull their weight to revitalise this country. We have had our doomsdayers in Canberra, the prophets of doom, the stirrers and the troublemakers, the people who have a vested interest in gossip, conjecture and connivance. All sorts of dire predictions have been made, but I am proud to report that the reality of this Government's policies has been a sympathetic and understanding assistance to change. Hard decisions have been taken by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the other Ministers, but their implementation has been with a maximum of assistance to those people in need and with a minimum of disruption. The real problem has been a sort of community future shock, fanned consistently, I might say, by those people opposite who pretend to be the champions of the people. 
Let us look at the appropriation for the Australian Capital Territory through the Department of the Capital Territory. The appropriation represents an increase of almost $10m, or about 18 per cent, over the expenditure for 1975-76. Generally, in line with the wishes of the Australian people, administration has been tightened up, with lower allowances for such items as travel, consultants fees, advertising and the like. But there have been increases in essential community service areas such as servicing and caretaking of government dwellings, recreational, cultural and community services, fire brigade and bus services, maintenance of parks and gardens, lighting and cleaning, police and- of very great importance- social welfare. We have already seen increases in the staff of the Departments of the Capital Territory, Education and Health and such essential community services as fire brigades and police. If I might be permitted to be a little lyrical, I should like to quote what Patrick Tennison said about this city: 
Canberra, from its beginnings, has always been the Pastoral Symphony among the various rhythms of different Australian cities. As the national capital, it .carries the distinguished tide of the nation's first city although it was, in fact, the last of them to be built. But being last built has meant also that it was more carefully planned than some of the others. Here good fortune and successive paternal governments have combined to treat the residents generously. Canberra is also a living monument to a dream that has recurred regularly in this century; that people should be able to fashion for themselves living quarters that suitably complement the natural setting. 
He goes on: 
In some ways Canberra is a modern miracle. 
With the city about to come of age and given the right to govern itself, as the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  has just announced, we must not forget that it is and always will be the city of Australia. Its planning and its beauty are the responsibility of this Parliament. Any move to hand over the planning of this city to other than those responsible to the people of Australia would be a blasphemy. By all means, we must give the citizens of Canberra a greater say in their own affairs. People who spend the municipal taxes should be responsible for their stewardship. Our education authority and health administration likewise must be answerable to the local electorate through the community and through elected local representatives. But the plan of this city must be kept above the sort of petty squabbles that have developed in some local government areas. 
The people of Canberra are lucky people. We live in Australia's finest city. We pay our taxes and we pay our way. Thanks to various government inquiries, we have recently been asked to pay our way in over-full measure. It is my view that Canberra has been brought down to earth with a bump. The estimates for the Department of the Capital Territory, as with the estimates for the other government departments which are to be discussed later, are an indication that the Government does support this Territory, its continued steady growth and the improvement of its standard of living. We in Canberra have taken the necessary economic medicine. I must say, however, that we now need to be reassured. The spirit and morale of the community is a sensitive thing. We all look forward to some firm indication that the people of Australia are proud of their capital and of the public servants who serve the nation so well. I know we will get that indication. Let this Government now take positive steps to restore consumer confidence in this city and reassure those who had the foresight to build the national capital that it is to continue to be the gleaming jewel and not a rapidly tarnishing lump of copper which bewitched people for a while but has now outlived its usefulness. 
I have confidence in this Government. It has a fine record of management. The Budget is fair to the people of Canberra, and those who look at it carefully will see that we have done well. But I say quite clearly to the Minister for the Capital Territory: We want no more special increases to bring us into line with the rest of Australia. Now assure us of the regard in which we are held in the hearts of Australia and assure us that the Government is not singling out Canberra for any special repressive measures. 
I address my question to the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that recently several letters have been written to the Editor of the  Canberra Times  suggesting that this Government is progressively destroying the concept of the community health centre in Canberra? Is this mischievous suggestion correct? 
I address my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister aware that many hundreds of families in Canberra have either no television reception or poor television reception due to the lack of a television translator station on Mount Taylor? Is the Minister aware that there is much frustration in the Canberra community at the delay in erecting this facility? Is the Minister aware that the local member shares that frustration? 
I address my question to the Treasurer and refer to the honourable gentleman's Budget Speech in which he said that the present exemption from payroll tax in the Australian Capital Territory would be increased from $20,800 to $41,600 per annum to bring the Australian Capital Territory into line with neighbouring States. Is the Treasurer aware that New South Wales and Victoria have recently made decisions to increase the exemption to $48,000 and to phase out the exemption of $48,000 for employers with payrolls in excess of that figure at the rate of $2 for every $3 of the excess? The Treasurer would be aware that the Government has in the last few months rather abruptly brought Canberra into line with the rest of Australia. When there are a few benefits around is he going - 
-The Payroll Tax (Territories) Assessment Amendment Bill is a very important piece of legislation for the people in the Australian Capital Territory. Honourable members will remember that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in delivering his Budget Speech stated that the exemption levels on payroll tax were to be doubled from $20,800 to $41,600 per annum. When he introduced this legislation the Treasurer indicated that the exemption level was to be improved to $48,000. This legislation is a recognition of the need for business in the Australian Capital Territory to be placed on the same basis as its competitors in the surrounding areas of New South Wales and Victoria. It is a recognition which this Government has quickly made and which was not made last year by the Labor Government when we dragged somewhat behind the other States. It is a quick reaction to the improvements introduced by Victoria and New South Wales after the Federal Budget- an introduction carried through in recognition of the need to support  small  businesses in Canberra at a time when they are suffering some difficulty. It is the first piece of legislation introduced by the Government specifically for the benefit of the business community in the Territory and as such highlights the changed attitude of this Government compared with that of the Whitlam Government which did everything possible to beat business in Canberra into the ground. 
I take this opportunity to outline the Government's policy in relation to business development in Canberra and to examine the current status of business in the Territory which the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  canvassed in his speech. I do not do so because I feel there is something special about the business sector in Canberra compared with the public sector but because it is a sector absolutely vital to the proper growth of the Australian Capital Territory. We must have a private sector in Canberra if this Territory is to grow, to prosper and to gain maturity. The policy on which the Government went to the people in November and December last year capsuled this belief. It stated: 
The Liberal and National Country Parties believe that the Australian Capital Territory and its region is too dependent upon public sector expenditure for employment and business stability. We will seek ways to encourage private enterprisebased industries and businesses to locate in Canberra, and in the regional towns, to increase employment opportunities for Canberra and adjacent New South Wales residents alike, particularly school leavers, women and university graduates. 
At a time when the Government has a clear directive from the people that they want the size of big government reduced and its interference in their lives and its rapacious need for funding diminished, the need for support for the private sector in Canberra is obvious. Employment opportunities in Canberra for many years have been those offered by the public sector. This has been a company town and our young people have relied heavily on the Public Service for jobs. 
With the introduction of staff ceilings in the Commonwealth Public Service, this ready access to jobs for our school leavers has at least in part diminished. 
I suggest that the reliance built up in Canberra for easy employment in government has been growing to unhealthy levels. Many of our young people were rushing into the warm bosom of our Public Service in a quite uncritical way and in many cases without thinking of the alternatives or even realising that there were other forms of employment. Many found employment in such large organisations as the Public Service departments unfulfilling and stultifying. Those young people who wished to express their individuality and independence were overwhelmed by the sheer size of the Public Service and left disillusioned and bored in many cases. With a small private sector in Canberra there were few alternative job choices and many young people on becoming disillusioned with Public Service employment were forced to leave Canberra and their families and go interstate. It is obvious that it is imperative to expand the employment base of Canberra, firstly, because of reduced employment and recruitment in the Public Service and, secondly, because an unhealthy reliance on one area of employment is undesirable in any community. 
I believe it is possible even for the Opposition to support the public sector and the private sector in this way. The real question is what the Government has done in its 11 months of office to widen the employment base and to encourage the private sector to expand in Canberra. I will leave aside the general thrust of the Government's economic policy at this stage as I want to discuss the long term thrust of our policy in Canberra, not the short term aberrations that the honourable member for Adelaide has been speaking about. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I asked the question: What has the Government done in its 11 months in office to widen the employment base and encourage the private sector in Canberra to expand? One of the first initiatives of the Government, in recognising that the Australian Capital Territory needs a wider economic base, was the creation of a unit within the Department of the Capital Territory to attract business and industry to Canberra. Advertisements soon will be appearing in newspapers throughout Australia emphasising the benefits of establishing business and industry in the A.C.T., with particular encouragement being given to light, non-polluting industries. 
To add to the work being done by the Department of the Capital Territory, private enterprise has established the Canberra and Regional Development Committee. This Committee is pushing forward quickly and decisively and is inviting executives of companies interested in establishing new businesses in Canberra and its region, or in expanding existing ones, to promotion and information sessions in Sydney and Melbourne in the next month or so. At those interstate sessions members of the Committee, all of whom have been drawn from private enterprise, will explain the advantages and opportunities for businessmen in the Canberra region. The Committee will explain the facts of commercial life in this area and the roles of bodies such as the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Capital Territory. 
The Committee is identifying the advantages of the region and will give publicity to this aspect. It is also researching other incentives which the Government may offer as an inducement to private concerns to match the incentives offered by State governments through their industry development branches. In doing so both the Department and the private sector Committee have firmly in their minds the need to ensure that the industry attracted to the area will not have deleterious effects on the character of Canberra. The industry to be attracted should complement the unique attraction of the area rather than detract from it. To assist in this initiative the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  has already made a number of moves aimed at building up Canberra's light industries. The Minister has approved some 30 leases for a wide variety of industrial purposes, ranging from bakeries to a tannery. Further industries are negotiating with a view to expanding or establishing their activities in the A.C.T. I have been led to believe by the Minister that about 30 different industries are negotiating at the moment. 
I think this indicates the interest of the Government in firmly building up a wider employment base in Canberra- a base built on supplying an affluent regional population of some 300 000- and I have no doubt that, given the continued strong government we have seen over the last 1 1 months, characterised by uncompromising stands against inflation, economic maturity for Canberra will be seen and will be achieved. It is imperative that Canberra becomes a real city- a city of Australia experiencing the breadth of Australian life and not just a special city of bureaucrats, politicians and academics. It will be a better city, a city of more light and shade and, most importantly, a city with a diversity of employment opportunities for the children of its residents, which must be important to us all. 
Many people will challenge what I am saying in relation to the encouragement of the private sector by this Government at this point in time- I emphasise the words 'at this point in time'- particularly in Canberra, where the private sector is so intricately linked with the growth and prosperity of the public sector. During 1976 we nave had many dire predictions from the Opposition and some industry sources about what was in store for Canberra. Not, many of those predictions have come to fruition. Unemployment in Canberra has risen since this Government came to office last December, but the amount of unemployment has not grown as much in the last 1 1 months under our administration as it had previously under the former Government. There seems to have been a steadying down in Canberra. Businessmen can now make decisions on the future; business administration seems to be much firmer; shops are being built in the suburbs; developers are taking up commercial sites; and builders can quote on jobs with some certainty in relation to labour costs and material charges. Certainly the tempo of unbridled growth has changed. If I may say so, the headlong gallop towards the great god of growth has slowed to an orderly trot. The inflated expectations of the Whitlam years have been pricked and normal and manageable growth is the order of the day. 
I do not deny that there are some business enterprises in Canberra which are feeling the pinch at the moment. That is why the improved level of payroll tax exemption is especially welcome at this time. Private enterprise is much more efficient now than it was 12 months ago. It is lean and, I might say, hungry and fit to compete and the consumer must benefit from this through greater competition and more stable prices. During 1975 prices in Canberra spiralled and we all suffered. In 1976 prices are coming under control and proper competition is being restored. 
The big question for Canberra at the moment is whether business is running down. The Chamber of Commerce in Canberra has asked that question of its members in relation to the 3 months ended August 1976 compared with the same period last year. The answer is not really surprising as the August quarter in 1975 was a period of hothouse growth. The survey indicates that businessmen allied to the building industry are severely depressed. The incomes of architects and other professional groups are at low levels and the outlook for them is critical. These groups built up their capacity quite dramatically during the Whitlam years when the people's taxes were flooded into the area of urban development. These people are now suffering. 
Tourism has been declining in Canberra, as it has been doing elsewhere in Australia. This is due in part to a slight reduction in the number of tourists visiting the Australian Capital Territory, but is due mainly to the quite impossible wage rates that unions extracted from a compliant Administration during the Whitlam years. People just cannot afford to pay the rates which hotels, motels and restaurants must now charge. They are opting for shorter stays and camping holidays. The effects on employment in our tourist industry have been savage and staff retrenchments have been widespread. Proprietors of restaurants had the unsavoury task last year of refusing employment to staff over the usually busy Christmas period because double and treble time rates make it quite uneconomic for them to open their enterprises. Many instances of staff offering to work for time-and-a-quarter and time-and-a-half rates have been mentioned to me but, of course, their employers cannot take up the offers. 
On the other hand, small retailers have been maintaining their position fairly well. Improved turnovers have been experienced in shopping centres in the outlying areas of Canberra where parking and shopping are more convenient. These smaller businesses, which are often operated by their owners, are doing quite well because they have had some success in containing cost increases. The payroll tax which is the subject of the debate tonight will help those people further and reward their enterprise. It will help them to compete with the larger firms. However, the impact of wage increases is still with us. Seventy per cent of the businesses recording increased turnovers have found that their wage costs have grown faster than their turnover percentage has improved. 
It is evident that the business community in Canberra is becoming stronger and surer of economic recovery, due to the solidity and the strength of the economic policy that is being put forward. We are seeing signs of cost increases stabilising and inflation being brought under control. Business people in Canberra recognise that bringing government spending under control is an important prerequisite to stable economic management. They are still concerned by the difficulties of recruiting and holding good staff but I understand that this problem is easing. Many retail and service business houses look to a steady improvement in general business conditions up to Christmas with a general resurgence in March-April next year. 
Living in my electorate 7 days a week, which is not the experience of most other members of the Parliament, keeps me close to the people who elected me. I can assure members of the House that even in this embattled city of Canberra where we have taken many knocks over the past few months there is a general feeling of satisfaction with the general mode of Government administration. Businessmen expected the economy to be pulled under control. Public servants wanted their Service to be brought back to the level of professionalism that had been their pride for many years and builders wanted to build rather than spend all their time combatting strikes and escalating demands from subcontractors. The people of Canberra were sick and tired of seeing their suburbs being built without facilities and the relentless sprawl of suburbia consuming the beautiful countryside. Many people who do not live in Canberra believe this is the town of the handout mentality. Those of us who live here and love the city know that this is not so. We want work, a good environment with the sort of community facilities modern urban living should provide and the right to earn and pay our way. 
The former Government turned the town into an experimental goldfish bowl in which our taxes rose and inflation ate away our savings. Now we have a government that is interested in governing Canberra like any other part of Australia. We have been asked to pay our way and to contribute to the running cost of this city through increased rents, increased bus charges and some increase in interest rates. Many other people who live in Canberra have said that they are not unhappy with the increase in government rents and interest rates because under the Labor Party those people who borrowed from building societies, banks and insurance companies had their interest rates put up 2 years ago. They do not think that it was so unfair for the rest of the community to be brought into line. All this has been done with the introduction of an extremely fair rental and interest rate rebate scheme for those on lower incomes. 
Good government has returned to Canberra. We are still uncertain; we are worried about jobs for our school leavers; but on balance my constituents are feeling relieved after the first 11 months of Liberal-National Country Party 
Government. Quite candidly, I think they thought it was going to be worse than it has been. In spite of the huffing and puffing of the honourable member for Adelaide who spoke before the sitting was suspended for dinner, and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who is trying to bring the economy down with talk of devaluation, the economy is on the mend. The long haul back to economic sanity is progressing well. The legislative and other measures to broaden the economic base of Canberra which are being introduced by the Government recognise the advantages of sound economic planning and a sound economic base for the Australian Capital Territory as it approaches maturity. 
I will be followed in this debate by the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  who represents the other half of Canberra. I might say without prejudice that he does it very well. I am sure he is very pleased to see the sound economic management that is coming into Canberra because under the Government of the Party he represents he saw over a period of 3 years a large part of his electorate being developed with very little community faculties and very few of the proper facilities for the people who live there. I would think that all in all Canberra is becoming pleased with the measures being introduced by this Government. The business people particularly are very pleased with this new payroll tax legislation. 
I address my question to the Attorney-General. I refer him to the arrangement between the United States Department of Justice and the Australian Attorney-General's Department dated 13 September 1976 regarding the Lockheed aircraft matter. Has the AttorneyGeneral received any documents pursuant to that arrangement and, if so, what is the result of his consideration of them? 
-The 3 Bills we are debating tonight cover important provisions for public servants. The Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees Bill) 1976 and the Public Service Amendment Bill 1976 relate to changes in the long service leave conditions of Commonwealth Government staff and staff of statutory bodies. Both are important to people in the Commonwealth Public Service work force. They also relate to employment in Papua New Guinea. Persons concerned will have certain rights if in the future they have to join or do join the Public Service or statutory bodies after leaving Papua New Guinea. The other Bill, the Public Service Amendment Bill (No. 2), was introduced to facilitate the transfer of Australia Government Public Service staff to the Northern Territory Public Service as a further step in the constitutional development of the Northern Territory. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you will be aware that the first 2 Bills I mentioned are particularly important to the people of Canberra. Some 55 000 people in Canberra rely on the Government or statutory authorities for their employment. The third Bill I referred to also is particularly important to public servants employed in the Department of the Northern Territory as the Northern Territory moves towards statehood. It is also important to my electorate as the Australia Capital Territory is moving towards a greater measure of responsibility for its own affairs, albeit short of statehood. Undoubtedly public servants in Canberra will carefully watch the implementation of statehood in the Northern Territory as it will be a guide to their position when Canberra creates its own local administrative structure. 
In discussing the long service leave provisions I would like to say how proud I am that the Government I support has implemented this legislation, and similar legislation for the private sector, albeit not as generous, in its first year of government. The legislation for both sectors honours promises made by the Liberal and National Country Parties during the recent election campaign and, with respect to the Public Service, in 1972 by the McMahon Government. I took some interest in the claims of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  that the Labor Party would have made the legislation more wide-ranging. My simple answer to that claim has to be that the Labor Government had a good deal of time to implement its more wideranging provisions but it did not introduce such a Bill until IS May. I do not think that the excuse that it was denied the right to get that legislation through because of the events of December last year really stands up. It had almost a whole year to get that legislation through after making promises in 1973 that it would do so. It did not get it done. I suggest that it seems that the Bill that the Labor Government introduced in May was a little more emaciated than some of the lofty promises it had made earlier. My only conclusion about this is that that Government must have been becoming aware of the realities of the broken economy it had created and realised it could not continue to give largesse in a benevolent and irresponsible way to public servants in this city. 
I do not very much like making political points in debates such as this but I think it very important, particularly when my electorate is having rather a rough time, to point out and remind the people of Australia who wrecked the Australian economy, who wrought the damage to our economic foundation and who in Opposition have not profited by the lessons they should have learnt over those terrifying 3 years. As we have heard from the honourable member for Gellibrand, unfortunately the handout mentality still exists. Honourable members on the Opposition side seem to be continuing to say, as they have said over the last few weeks: 'To hell with the economic consequences, be popular and give away the people's taxes'. That is a continuation ofthe sort of economic vandalism we have seen from the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  while exercising his ego over the last few months in relation to devaluation. That man is now smugly taking pride in prophesying the inevitability of devaluation which he did so much to ensure as a senior and once respected member of the Opposition. One of the most irresponsible acts of 1 976 was the former Treasurer undermining the confidence of a whole nation by saying that devaluation had to happen. 
The long service leave Bills proceed with the changes set out in the Bill introduced by the Labor Government in May last year, with the exception of the proposed increases in the rate of long service leave accrual. The proposition in these Bills maintains the existing basic entitlement of three-tenths of a month's leave, that is 9 days, for every year of service, to be taken after 10 years of service- that is, 3 months ' leave after 10 years service. Honourable members will remember that the former Government's offer was marginally more generous, as it offered the same entitlement for the first 10 years but thereafter the entitlement accrued at the rate of 15 days a year rather than the 9 days a year that is included in this legislation. The Labor proposal offered this for service only after 1 January 1973. Service before that gained credit at the normal rate. The Minister, in his second reading speech, made it quite clear that the Government could not see its way clear, in the present economic circumstances, to grant such a significant change in accrual rates. It is clear that the Labor Party had similar thoughts last year when it introduced a caveat on the longer long service leave entitlements by having the bench mark of 1 January 1973 to limit the extra provisions. 
The 2 long service leave Bills tidy up provisions in this area, but they do much more than that. I would like to canvass the more important changes which, in the main, have their genesis in the policies announced by the Liberal-Country Party Government in the latter part of 1972. A very important provision is the extension of long service leave entitlement to part time employees. The Public Service and statutory authorities employ many thousands of part time people. Many of these people have worked for very many years in that capacity because it suits their lifestyle and their family commitments. These people have not had the benefit of entitlement to long service leave- a right which they had earned. The machinery provisions to implement this change are complex and take in the variations in service of an employee over time- that is, the work mix of some full time and some part time- and also make allowances for periods when the employee may have ceased work for relatively short periods or have been given leave without pay. Details of that can be seen in clause 20 ofthe Bill. 
Another most important provision, one which flows directly from the proposals of the former Government, is that an employee will receive payment in lieu of long service leave after one year's service where employment ceases due to death, ill health, retrenchment or aged retirement. The present position is that such payment in lieu can be made only after at least 4 years' service. The recognition of prior service with local government bodies is another very important provision. This will make for greater flexibility in respect of people moving from one area of employment to another. Employees will receive credit for employment with local government bodies when they join the Commonwealth Public Service or a statutory body. The equity is clear. It will obviously be of considerable benefit to many people who have at least felt in part that they were becoming locked into employment in the local government sphere. Their opportunity to seek promotion and job enrichment without disadvantaging themselves is increased substantially. 
The anomaly of limiting payment in lieu of long service leave only to dependants on death of an employee has been removed. This anomaly was quite iniquitous. Earlier this year I had a case in which an elderly migrant father of a public servant who had been killed in a car accident had no right to his son's long service leave entitlement. The father used his life savings to pay for a decent funeral but could not claim any amount of funds in lieu of long service leave entitlement because technically he was not a dependant of his son. Under this legislation that man will now be paid. 
The long service leave Bills contain provisions to ensure that persons in public employment in Papua New Guinea prior to Independence who worked for the independent state of Papua New Guinea after Independence and who then entered or who in the future may enter Commonwealth employment will get entitlements. Obviously this is a most important provision as Papua New Guinea moves to nationhood and replaces Australian nationals with its own trained staff. Another useful and interesting set of provisions is that designed to ensure that minor interruptions to service will not cause an employee to lose entitlement to long service leave. A break in service of less than 12 months will not cause an employee to lose his or her entitlement. A woman who was working as a typist in local government in Sydney, who was shifted with her family to Canberra, who took the opportunity of settling her family in the Canberra community, who was off work for no longer than 12 months and who then decided to take a job with the Public Service, would continue to have an entitlement to long service leave credits. This would be of considerable benefit to her. The period off work would not be included in assessing the long service leave entitlement. 
Leave without pay will not break continuity and may, if the employing authority or the Public Service otherwise determines, count as service. Leave without pay to undertake full time employment as a union official counts as service for the qualifying period. I think that raises a question of some interest to members of Parliament. It seems to me that, if a public servant can maintain his long service leave credits when he works full time for a union, serious consideration should be given to allowing public servants who become members of Parliament and who, for some reason or other, return to the Public Service, to continue to have the entitlement. Mem- ' bers of Parliament are serving their country as well as trade unionists are. I suggest that the trade unionists among us in this Parliament should make some moves in that direction. Full time training under post-defence forces vocational training schemes will not break continuity of service, so that a serviceman can leave the forces, do his retraining under the vocational training scheme, join a statutory authority or the Commonwealth Public Service and maintain his continuity for long service leave purposes. Absence due to ill health does not break continuity. One of the most important provisions in this legislation is that it will have retrospective operation to 1 January 1973. This is being done to honour the intention of the former LiberalCountry Party Government as announced in 1972. 
I pass to the legislation in respect of the Northern Territory. I think that was very carefully and thoughtfully dealt with by the honourable member for Gellibrand. I do not think there is very much for me to say on that matter, except perhaps to expand a little on what I said earlier in relation to the Australian Capital Territory. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  is busily explaining to the people of Canberra what greater responsibility will mean. A lot of work is being done in government and in the Public Service to work  out the details of that.  There is considerable disquiet among some public servants in Canberra as to what will happen when they transfer from the Commonwealth 
Public Service-from the Department of the Capital Territory and other areas involved in running Canberra. There is some feeling, albeit a psychological or emotional feeling, that if they join another body which does not have quite the stature of the national Public Service, somehow or other they will be second grade citizens in the national capital. It will be extremely important for us to watch very carefully how this legislation works in the Northern Territory and to ensure that we profit from that experience. The operation of this scheme in the Northern Territory will have a lead time of at least some months on legislation which is proposed for the Australian Capital Territory. This will enable us to ensure that the difficulties which have been forshadowed by the honourable member for Gellibrand do not create problems and, psychologically, do not cause the people in the Capital Territory administration to feel that they are losing any stature when compared with other public servants. I am certain that the mechanical provisions of the new legislation will guard their legal and employment positions. But I say to the Minister for the Capital Territory that I think it is most important psychologically that the feeling of people who have been working in the Public Service in this national capital for the people of the Australian Capital Territory should be guarded in every way. This aspect should be safeguarded most carefully. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
How many passengers, both inward and outward, used the Canberra Airport during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
What is the projected number of passengers, both inward and outward, who will use the Airport during each of the years 1976-77, 1977-78 and 1978-79. 
-In this debate on the Seamen's Compensation Amendment Bill 1976, the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill 1976 and the United States Naval Communications Station (Civilian Employees) Amendment Bill 1976 I would like to spend some little time on the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill and leave it to others who follow me in this debate to cover and canvass the other areas. The Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill, naturally enough, is of some interest and concern to my constituents in Canberra. The Bill provides for workers compensation for employees of the Commonwealth Government and its statutory authorities. The legislation for this purpose was last amended during the 1 974 Budget session of the Parliament and since then there have been certain increases in the cost of living and benefits payable under workers compensation legislation in most of the States. Therefore it is quite proper that some amendments should be made to the legislation to bring it into line with the influences on employees in 1976. 
The first change to which I would like to refer briefly is the increase in compensation for total incapacity. The weekly compensation payment for employees when they are incapacitated means that for the first 26 weeks of total incapacity they would receive normal full sick pay and following that period they would receive $80 a week. This in an increase from the present rate of $57 a week. There is an additional weekly supplement for a dependent spouse and it is increased from $15 a week to $21 a week. For each dependent child the increase is from $7 a week to $10 a week. The Bill covers compensation on death and increases the amount of compensation payable where injury results in the death of an employee from $20,000 to $25,000. 
It also increases payments in respect of dependent children of a deceased employee from $7 a week to $10 a week. The maximum amount payable in respect to funeral expenses has been increased from $450 to $650 in line with the sort of expenses that people would expect to pay over that 2-year period. There also are increases in lump sum payments for specific losses. For example, the payment for permanent facial disfigurement is increased from $10,000 to $12,500. Another example is that compensation for loss of sense of taste, sight or smell is increased from $2,000 to $2,500. In addition there are increases for alterations to buildings or vehicle repairs or replacements of certain aids from $500 to $700. 
In 1974 there were some changes to the Social Services Act which mean that this legislation could fall out of parallel. Therefore in the Bill changes have been made to section 38 ( 1 ) so that the 2 areas of compensation- compensation under this legislation and under the social services legislation- will be dealt with on a similar basis. The result of the Bill before the House will be that no person receiving compensation payments, or a person undergoing rehabilitation or vocational training, will receive less than would have been received under the social services legislation when undergoing similar training. Another important provision in this Bill is that the amendments will come into operation as from 1 September 1976 so that any people who have been affected by the legislation will be covered from that date. 
One of the problems that we must face with legislation such as this is how generous we can be to Commonwealth employees. Naturally when any person suffers some sort of accident or a family loses the breadwinner the Government would like to be, and usually is, as generous as possible. There have been some comments about the level of generosity to employees under this legislation. When one looks at comparative State legislation one can see that no State offers higher benefit for children of deceased employees than is provided in the Bill- that is, $ 10 a week, subject to a minimum of $1,000. Only one State, Tasmania, provides a higher limit on funeral expenses than the $650 provided in this Bill. The lump sum payment to a dependent widow of a deceased employee, which is $25,000, is either equal to or higher than the same benefit offered in the major States- New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia- and in the Northern Territory. 
In Western Australia the figure is marginally higher at $27,617. In Tasmania it is $25,674. In the Australian Capital Territory it is just over $25,000. Naturally, legislation such as this takes into account what is applying in the States, and I think we can say quite clearly that the legislation is fair to people in the Commonwealth service, when it is looked at in relation to the State services. 
I would like to canvass a few matters with the Minister in relation to what might happen during the period when this legislation is being reviewed with a view to improving it. The first one is that I can see no reason at all why members of Parliament should not be covered by similar legislation. They could be injured or could die tragically. There is not a great deal of assistance for their families or their loved ones in those circumstances, other than the parliamentary pension. The next point is that one would hope that as the economy picks up, as it is showing signs of doing at the moment, it would be possible for the adjustments to this legislation to be more of an automatic nature. Some sort of indexation could be involved so that we do not need to go through the tortuous process each year, with each Budget, of having to decide the level. The third suggestion would be that the Seamen's Compensation Amendment Bill 1976, although similar legislation, does not seem in all respects to parallel the Commonwealth employees legislation. I hope that over the next 12 months some work will be done by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and her Department to make the 2 pieces of legislation parallel. 
When one deals with legislation such as this one will always be accused of not being sufficiently generous to people who are in needy circumstances. I daresay that when members of the Opposition speak to this Bill they will bring forward quite a list of reasons why the Government should be more generous. I remind the people of Australia when these suggestions are made that there is only one good reason why the Government cannot be more generous at the moment, and that is that the economy cannot afford it. We must always remember why the economy is in this state of depression, which we are certainly getting out of. Why is it in that state? Who had the handout mentality only a couple of years ago that caused us all the problems we have? 
I do not know whether or not it will save me in Canberra. That is not my real concern. My real concern in coming into this 
House is to try to fix up some of the things that the gentleman on the front bench opposite did during the 3 years of the most catastrophic government in Australia. I would think that the people of Canberra, who were sufficiently wise to elect to the House of Representatives for the first time a member of the Liberal Party, would be sufficiently wise to see good government when the economy gets going again and when this country is pushing forward in the right and proper way. I support the legislation. 
-I was very pleased to hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  bring to the attention of Parliament what may or may not be a problem concerning the disposal of nuclear waste. I did not rise tonight to talk about that matter, but I think what he has said brings to the attention of the House the very sane policy of the Government, of which I am a member, of ensuring that the whole matter of nuclear power and uranium is looked at very carefully and also in ensuring that the problem of the disposal of waste is carefully considered before the Government makes its final decision. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
-This evening I shall talk about the community involvement program which was launched by the National Capital Development Commission on 3 December. The NCDC has announced moves to involve the Canberra community in decision making processes on 4 major issues. The Commission, as honourable members well know, is an independent body with very wide ranging powers in relation to the planning of the national capital. The 4 issues which it wishes to raise with the community include: The potential use of undeveloped land in inner Canberra; possible options to change the policies on redevelopment; amendments to the Commission's design and siting policy; and public comment on changes to the present front fence policy. The Commission is asking the community to discuss these matters and to bring its views to the Commission. The Commission has given the community until March of next year to do so. 
I find that these proposals raise important questions in relation to the future planning of the Australian Capital Territory and particularly in relation to Canberra which is the national capital. The NCDC, having such wide powers is in a position if it likes to use those powers, of almost being able to do as it likes without asking the community for its comments. The NCDC will have to take a position in the Canberra community as we move towards more responsibility for the Legislative Assembly. I think it is important at this stage to canvass, in relation to the sorts of policies which the NCDC has, just what might happen if local government in Canberra is given greater authority. 
I suggest that there are 2 major problems in the planning of Canberra. The first problem relates to general issues such as the development of undeveloped land in inner Canberra. This is an issue which settles upon all people of Canberra. The second issue which the NCDC raises within its program relates to design and siting policies which could involve adding a second storey onto a house, adding a flat onto a house and that sort of activity. Such matters affect people who live adjacent to houses or areas where those planning proposals are to take place. I suggest that it is most important that the NCDC has determined and clarified its powers in relation to what it can do. I suggest that it is most important not only that the NCDC should feel that it can discuss such matters with the Canberra community but also that the law should require such discussions. It should give every citizen in Canberra the right to appeal against decisions of the NCDC. 
I suggest that proper planning appeals tribunals be established in the Australian Capital Territory so that the general community, when faced with a wide ranging planning change, can appeal. I refer to such a planning change as the development of the slopes of Mount Ainslie. Also I think that the people of Canberra should have the right to appeal in relation to developments adjacent to their properties to a tribunal which would be completely impartial and which would be expert. These things should be looked at carefully before the Australian Capital Territory receives a wider measure of local government. The NCDC should continue to be independent. It has done a wonderful job for Canberra. Most people would agree that it has built a national capital which is second to none. But it is important that it has some - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-by leave-I support the remarks of the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  on the report of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. The difficulty with waste disposal in a modern city is something which will come before all of us as Canberra grows. Waste disposal is a very expensive part of the municipal account. In a city such as Canberra, where there seems to be plenty of land, it would be very tempting for those of us who are responsible for the administration of the city and for those who will be responsible for the administration of the city as it is passed over to the local government area to take the cheap way out. This report will be very important to those people in local government as autonomy grows closer, as it indicates the options that are before them so that they can approach the matter in a responsible way. I associate myself with the words of praise of the honourable member for Fraser about all the staff involved in the preparation of the report. 
I address my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is he aware that petitions signed by over 20 000 people have been presented to this Parliament this week on the subject of citizen radio services? Is he aware of Press reports that over the last week radio inspectors have been active in seizing radio equipment being used by those interested in citizen radio services? Is it the Government's intention to introduce legislation on this matter and to instruct radio inspectors to avoid action which in the circumstances may be interpreted as being extremely provocative? 
It is with great pleasure that I follow the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  in this debate because I intend to speak upon many of the matters which he raised. 
I will speak gently because the honourable member for Hawker always speaks with a lot of good sense and he has spoken tonight in many ways with the good sense that he displayed in the debate on uranium. I think it was one of the most constructive speeches that was made during that debate. I would like to say how honoured I am to take part in the Address-in-reply debate following the opening of the second session of this Parliament by  Her  Majesty the Queen. Before moving into the substance of my speech I would also like to say how pleased the people of Canberra were to play host to  Her  Majesty on this occasion. It is often forgotten by the people of Australia what an integral and important role the people of Canberra play in ensuring that important visitors to Australia are given a fine, warm and friendly welcome to our nation and that they leave our shores with a strong indication of the open.heartedness of our people and the beauty and enterprise of our nation. 
All those Australians who witnessed the spectacular opening ceremony, the fine military parade and the colourful reception when the Queen was with us must have been impressed with the work of all those people in Canberra who worked so hard to ensure the success of the visit to the national capital. The Australian Capital Territory and Commonwealth Police, the members of the armed forces, the caterers, the drivers, the workers in parks and gardens and the Department of Construction, the television and radio technicians, the hotel and motel industry, hairdressers and shop assistants, all contributed to the success of the visit. I am certainly proud that we in Canberra did so well for our country and I hope that the nation is proud that we did it so well. 
I should like to speak on that part of  Her  Majesty's speech which noted that 'the resources of the Australian continent hold out a great promise and a great challenge'. I say quite bluntly that there is not nearly enough emphasis on or interest in Australia's resources in this Parliament. Like so many other things, we in Australia take the quite magnificent resources with which this country has been blessed for granted. The number of questions and the amount of debating time which have been applied to the question of resource policy in Australia borders on the scandalous. Unfortunately, not all the work that is done in Parliament is reflected in the utterances in this chamber or in the other place. Much work has been done by many parliamentarians and parliamentary committees and also in Party committees on the important question of resource development and utilisation but, unfortunately, due to the lack of legislation on the subject and the quite indecently small amount of time made available to debate the reports which have been tabled in this Parliament, the product of this work behind the scenes rarely comes to the notice of the public. The people of Australia must be reminded or, even more drastically, jolted out of their apathy in relation to the energy crisis. There is a dangerously naive view abroad that Australia is all right, that other parts of the world have a problem but that this is still a lucky country. There is a belief abroad that those people who talk about an Australian energy crisis are eco-nuts pushing some hobby horse; that they are people who were frightened by a motor car at birth or who have some masochistic desire to ride bicycles around the countryside in the rain. 
I assure the House that this is not so. Australia is facing a crisis, not because we are poor in resources but because our 'mix' of different resources does not match our 'mix' of projected demand, both as to the type of energy resources required and to the geographic location of the available resources within this country. Put simply, we have bountiful coal, uranium and natural gas resources but quite inadequate oil reserves. Our coal reserves are on the east coast and our natural gas reserves are predominantly on the north-west shelf while our uranium is predominantly in the Northern Territory. We know that these resources are vast. We read every day how rich we are in resources and how valuable the resources are but do we ask ourselves the important question of how we will run our cars, trucks and aeroplanes when our reserves of oil run out? Between now and 1990, oil, which has the smallest reserve, will be consumed at the greatest rate. Forecast oil consumption is double the amount of known indigenous reserves during that period and these reserves take into account probably future discoveries. 
Until 1990 oil is forecast to remain the largest energy source in Australia, even though the growth in oil consumption will be less than in the past- about 3.5 per cent per annum compared with a rate of 5.7 per cent over the past 10 years. As I have emphasised, the majority of oil in Australia is consumed in transportation. Thus we cannot in the foreseeable future substitute other energy sources for this purpose. It is difficult to visualise our millions of cars and trucks readily converting to coal power or our aeroplanes using anything other than aviation fuel. Currently, 65 per cent to 70 per cent of the demand is provided from indigenous sources. In 1985, even with significant local discoveries of petroleum, this rate will drop below 50 per cent. Over that period, assuming a 5 per cent increase in the price of imported crude, which I imagine is a very low assumption, our import bill for oil will increase from $740m per annum to $4000m per annum. We therefore have the double problem of a declining essential resource, plus a spectacular increase in our imports bill. 
It must be abundantly clear that oil must be treated as a scarce and precious resource, even in Australia. The argument that we can buy oil from overseas is simplistic. There is every indication that oil is just as vital and declining a power source on the world scene as it is in Australia. Projections indicate that total world energy requirements from all sources will double between now and 1990. But during that period oil 's share of meeting that demand will decline only from 53 per cent to 48 per cent. Of the projected world demand for oil up to 1990 only some 69 per cent has so far been discovered. So there is a massive need for further world discoveries of oil. It is clear that the most prospective areas for such discoveries are to be found in members of OPEC. By the late 1980s those countries will be reaching the limit of their capacity- that is, their actual production rate- to increase production output. 
I do not wish to be a latter day Malthus. I believe that other energy resources will be developed. Man is very inventive. But the message is that we must nurture our oil resources; we must encourage local exploitation and exploration; we must ensure that our scientists press ahead to find ways in which to convert other resources into energy in its most portable form; and we must not waste any resource on a purpose other than that for which it is most suited. We must also realise that the sands of time are running out. We know that coal can be liquefied to be used as petroleum; we know that one day solar energy will be developed into a viable source of energy; we also know that major power utilities in the world are developing nuclear power stations which will supply up to one-third of the required electrical power by the late 1980s. 
All that will take time, will require enormous capital investment, must be planned and must be encouraged by government action. If we started this very day on a massive program to develop nuclear power, to liquefy coal, to discover more oil, to electrify the railways and to build nuclear powered ships, it would be well into the late 1980s before any real impression was being made on the problem. There is evidence to show that those countries which have planned economies are well into such programs. Little wonder that they and their ideologues put every obstacle in the way of the free enterprise countries to do likewise. Energy has always been the basis of power. It will be in the future, and we must ensure that the development of a coherent energy policy is carefully controlled and managed by our government. 
I am particularly pleased that the Government has recently appointed a high level committee to advise it on energy matters and to assist in the formulation and development of a national energy policy for Australia. I trust that the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  will encourage that committee to bring forward recommendations quickly. We desperately need a well argued and coherent policy. The sands of time are running out for Australia. Energy is a national problem which must be well considered and examined by the nation's best brains from all sectors of our economy. It should not be, as it was under the previous Government, the plaything of one Minister with his own personal concept of the grand vision for energy. 
The shadow of the uranium issue has been allowed to fall too much on this Parliament. There should be a wide ranging debate on energy- a debate which will put into proper perspective the development of all of our resources, both for Australia, which is an apparently resource rich nation with resource problems, and for the resource starved countries which will rely on countries such as ours to carry out proper stewardship of the earth's resources. In many ways the uranium debate is a gigantic smokescreen which should be dispersed as quickly as possible. Members of the Parliament and the people of the nation as a whole should put pressure on governments, both national and State, to come up as quickly as possible with a coherent energy policy. Valuable work is being done in that regard by meetings of State and Federal Ministers, but much more has yet to be done. I fear that we may not have time to 'hasten slowly'. 
I am pleased to support the proposed AddressinReply to  Her  Majesty the Queen. 
-The Attorney-General would be aware of recent action taken by the governments of Queensland and Western Australia to question the right of representation, both in this House and the Senate, of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. Can the Attorney-General inform the Parliament as to whether the Commonwealth will be defending actions brought against it in the High Court? When is the hearing expected? Will the Attorney-General confirm that he has received a joint approach from all 7 elected representatives from the Territories on behalf of the people of the Territories that the Commonwealth arrange for those Territories to be separately represented in the High Court challenge? Can he indicate whether the Government will agree to assist and fund such separate representation on behalf of the interests of the people of the Territories? 
-The Attorney-General will remember that last week he indicated he would consider representations from the seven parliamentary representatives for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory for the granting of assistance to appear before the High Court of Australia on behalf of the interests of the people of those Territories. Can the AttorneyGeneral indicate whether assistance will be given and, if so, what assistance will be given? 
-It is with pleasure that I follow the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who has put forward arguments defending democratic representation for the Territories. As we all know, recently there has been some criticism about the amount of slanging and political pointtaking in this chamber. I compliment the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  who has recently left the Liberal Party, for putting that point squarely before members of the Parliament. We are lucky today that this matter of public importance which has been proposed by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith is one which almost all members of Parliament- certainly the more enlightened members of Parliament- would support. 
I think that we should look at history when we begin to talk about democracy. We must remember that the area in which this Parliament stands was first explored in the early 1820s. Since that date democracy in this area has been evolving as it has evolved in the rest of Australia. But, suddenly in 1977, two governments of this country have decided to try to turn back the clock. I do not challenge their right to do that. I believe in the democratic system and, therefore, I believe in the role of the High Court and in the right of people to test propositions before that Court. But I agree with the honourable member for KingsfordSmith that it is very dangerous for a Chief Justice of the High Court to be inviting challenges to decisions of that Court only a short time after they have been made. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 1 1 March 1977: 
1 ) How many householders were there in Canberra at the end of each of the years 1975 and 1976. 
How many of these householders had to pay excess water rates for each of the same years. 
How much was collected in excess water rates for each of the same years. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) Can he say whether there is a drug problem within the Australian National University. 
How many investigations have been made by the police into the sale and use of drugs within the ANU in the last 12 months. 
How many prosecutions have there been of ANU staff or students for the sale or use of drugs during each of the last 5 years. 
-The Prime Minister would be aware that the Nimmo royal commission report concerning Norfolk Island contains some 74 recommendations. Is he aware that there have been Press reports that the Government has already made up its mind to make Norfolk Island part of Australia and to impose Australian taxes on the residents of the Island, and that theroposed visit of the Minister for Administrative Services and the Attorney-General in early June is merely to inform the Islanders of that decision? Is this conjecture true or entirely misleading and unnecessarily alarming the Islanders? 
It is a great honour to speak for the Government on the Supply Bill. In passing, I should like to comment on the speech made on Friday of last week by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who referred in depth and at length to the economic ills of the country and how the Opposition would remedy them. I wish to say 3 things about that speech. Firstly, at this stage this Government has the deficit completely in line with its Budget forecast and it appears that the Government will achieve that objective at the end of this financial year. Secondly, the growth in the money supply is completely in line with the Government's propositions and proposals. Thirdly, inflation is quickly approaching single digit figures, which is our policy objective. I say those 3 things in introducing my speech simply because I do not think it takes half an hour to summarise what the Government has done since it got back into power. It has got this country back on to the right economic track and it is now a government which can undertake to do things in the economy and see them through. 
Today I should like to take the opportunity to talk about one of the smallest areas and smallest territories of Australia. I wish to speak about the amounts of money that are being provided for the small territory of Norfolk Island. Norfolk Island was discovered in 1774 by Captain James Cook. It is a small island, 5 miles by 3 miles, a thousand miles from Sydney and 660 miles from Auckland. It has an area of only 3455 hectares. Why should I take up the time of the national Parliament in the debate on the Supply Bill to speak of such a small island? My reason stems from the report of the Royal Commission into Matters Relating to Norfolk Island, which was presented to this Parliament last year. Norfolk Island is an area which over many years has been under a number of controls. It was first settled in 1788 at the same time as Sydney Town. When the First Fleet came to Australia, two of the ships moved on to Norfolk Island to establish a convict settlement. That first convict settlement was established in 1788 and continued until 1814, when it was abandoned. In 1 825 another convict settlement was established on Norfolk Island, and those who have read Australian history will realise that it was one of the most bloody and terrible episodes in Australian history. That colonisation of the Island as a convict community lasted until 1855. 
The third period of settlement on Norfolk Island commenced in 1856 with a group of people from Pitcairn Island. Those people came from the mutiny on the  Bounty,  which of course is very famous in Australian history. The small group of people who had settled on Pitcairn Island were resettled on Norfolk Island to make a life for themselves and were the main people on the Island until the 1950s and 1960s. In the 1960s tourism became a popular interest on the Island and, in addition, some of the smarter company and taxation lawyers in Australia found that it was a wonderful tax haven. The Island blossomed. The life of the Pitcairners was disturbed by people coming in from outside to use loopholes m the Government's taxation system, and also to spend some happy tourist hours on the Island. All this came about as a result of the building of an airstrip on the Island during the Second World War. The tax haven has now been closed down in the main, and the future of the Island- seems to be in tourism. Its population today is made up mostly of descendants of the Pitcairners. Approximately 40 per cent of the people living there can trace their history back to the Pitcairners. Another 25 per cent came from Australia, 25 per cent from New Zealand, and the balance from the United Kingdom and some other countries. 
It is a very interesting island, and I speak of it having been there 2 weeks ago to spend a week of quietness and peace away from Australia in one of the most interesting places to which I have ever been. My reason for going was that one of the recommendations in the Nimmo report suggests that the Island could become part of the electorate of Canberra. To most of us living in Canberra it seems to be a remarkable suggestion that approximately 2000 people living 1000 miles away should be represented by somebody living in the national capital. The Nimmo Royal Commission report contains 74 recommendations. That the Island should become part of the electorate of Canberra is but one of those recommendations. The other important recommendation so far as the Islanders are concerned, I believe, is that the Island should have much more independence and that it should have a greater say in its own destiny. The Royal Commission report ranges over such diverse things as the development of the Island's economy, whether cows and horses should be able to continue to roam across it, whether duty free status should be continued, whether there should be a law library on the Island; matrimonial causes, legal aid, a prison and law enforcement, racial discrimination, unionism and social services. It is a very diverse report and its presentation has led the Government to send over to Norfolk Island the Minister for Administrative Service  (Senator Withers)  and the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  next week to consult the Islanders to ensure that all their views on the report and their future will be taken into account. 
The interesting point for the people of Australia who may not have been to the Island and who take an interest in it would be just how much the Territory costs us- the taxpayers of Australia- to run. The Territory does not pay tax. I suppose that those of us who pay tax would regard the Island as an absolute paradise. It may be difficult to imagine that 1000 miles away in the middle of the Pacific Ocean there is a territory where the fortunate people do not have to pay tax. A great controversy is raging on the Island and amongst most people as to whether the Island pays for itself or whether the Australian taxpayers subsidise it. The Nimmo Royal Commission report does not go into that matter perhaps quite as deeply as it could. The report contains a suggestion that the administration of the Island costs the Australian taxpayers about $2.5m per annum. The Royal Commission states that as a matter of fact on page 42 of the report and does not go much further. It is very difficult to get any precise figures to show from where that calculation came. If one speaks to the people on the Island, they will suggest it was a figure plucked out of the air. 
A reading of the newspapers of the Island seems to indicate that the most important thing for the Islanders is the rights to land. There is a school of thought on the Island which suggests that the Pitcairners were bought from Pitcairn Island to Norfolk Island by invitation and by persuasion. They were promised that the Island would be theirs subject to some small areas which would be retained for the Crown. Legal arguments, legalese, historical research and the like have been brought before the people of Australia and before the people of the Island. Everybody has enough historical evidence to back up the points he wants to make. But is that really the issue? Is not the moral issue what the Islanders believe? If the Islanders believed back in 1856 that they were being invited to leave their home, which was undoubtedly theirs, to go to another place, and if a junior officer in the British navy told them this was so, is there not a moral duty on the Government today perhaps to take note of the expectation of the people rather than what the legal circumstances are? It is a question which I put and which I do not wish to answer. 
What would a decision to make Norfolk Island part of Australia mean for the people of Norfolk Island? Firstly, it would mean that they may or may not have to pay Australian rates of taxes. Secondly, it would mean that they may or may not be brought under the social security umbrella of Australia. But I think there is little doubt that the cost structure of the Island would be inflated. When you go to Norfolk Island, you visit an area which is probably 1 5 or 20 years behind the rest of Australia in terms of its costs. All of those people who are struggling with unemployment, cost-price squeezes, existing and trying to make industry work, would know exactly what that meant. But the Island can hold out to its tourists- tourism is really its only industry- a relatively cheap holiday. The expense in getting there is high. Once the tourist is there, the holiday is reasonably cheap. Of course, that is an attraction. Once the tourist gets to the Island, whether it be to see history or just to buy tax free goods, he can spend some time there without being ripped off which, of course, is not the case in so many other tourist resorts both in Australia and overseas. 
Another thing that would happen if the Island came into the Australian political spectrum would be that a divisiveness would be introduced to it. We all know in Australia that the need for politics seems to create divisions amongst people. It creates divisions in this House, it creates divisions within families and it creates divisions within communities. The Islanders are very fearful that if they become part of Australia they will suddenly find politics on the Island for the first time. They are fearful that families will argue amongst themselves and that the community will argue within itself about whether they should be voting for the Liberal Party, the Australian Labor Party, the National Country Party or perhaps even for Don's party. Is that a good thing? I think that probably it is not. I think that a small community of 2000 people should be spared some of the things that go on in Australia. I think that perhaps industry on the Island should be encouraged and that tourism is the only industry that can survive there. Perhaps everything that this Government does in considering the fate of the Island must be geared around ensuring, firstly, that the essential, very important and unique situation on the Island, from the ethnic origin of the Pitcairners to their fundamental religious understandings, simplicity, generosity and trusting nature should not be disturbed. 
One point that is very important to the Island -it comes out very strongly in the Nimmo report -is self-government. It is quite amazing to go to the Island and to realise that it really is a colonial outpost. The Island has a council which has an advisory capacity but no real power. The Island is administered by an Administrator appointed by the Australian Government. That Administrator takes his orders predominantly from Canberra. The questions of self-government, selfdetermination and representation are bound up together. But I feel no matter what happens in relation to the Island's becoming part of Australia, in relation to paying taxes and the other recommendations, there is a compelling argument to give the people of the Island the right to administer their own affairs and to settle their own arguments themselves. I am sure they could do so and I am sure that they would do so very well. I am sure in my own mind that the recommendations of the Nimmo report on that subject do not go far enough. 
The report makes very clear what the Royal Commission feels on the question of the administration of the Island. This is stated on page 77 of the report: 
The main blame for the Island's problems does not rest in the Island. Most of the long-standing ones have had their genesis and perpetuation in slothful and inept mainland administration, which has proved itself unable to activate the seemingly clogged processes of government and to achieve successful solutions to the Island 's obvious difficulties. 
That is a fairly hard thing for the honourable member for Canberra who represents a bureaucracy to say. But the report contains that comment and I think that that in itself suggests that the Islanders could be no worse off by having administration passed over to them. But perhaps they are not ready for it. Perhaps they are behind Australia and behind advanced society, and we should look after them a little longer. I remind this House that, at a time when this country is still trying to determine what its national anthem will be, Norfolk Island has had a national anthem for more than 100 years. 
I would like to comment upon a finding of Governor Denison in 1857 in connection with the Island and the people who are on it. He stated, in regard to the setting up of their legal framework: 
I left untouched the rule which gave the women, as well as the men, a vote in the annual election of the Chief Magistrate. 
That was in 1857; so perhaps we should allow the Islanders the right to run their own affairs because, obviously, any island which in 1857 allowed women to vote must be a fair way forward in development. The community itself is well organised. The community looks after its own people when there are problems. It takes people under its wing and helps them. The people have their own social security system. They have no unemployment. There is a lovely sense of lack of criminality; one can leave car doors open, with the keys in the lock. 
That brings me to the final point- the crunch for a member of parliament- namely, the recommendation that this lovely island become part of the electorate of Canberra. Speaking selfishly on my own behalf and perhaps on behalf of the 2 senators for the Australian Capital Territory, let me say that we would like the opportunity to go occasionally to Norfolk Island to represent the people, and I am sure we would do it very well. It would be lovely to leave Canberra, which is such a new city, to visit such an old historical area which has its roots back in the first years of the colonisation of this country. That is the selfish view. The other side is that we would be taking part in a program or decision which might spoil something which is unique and I do not think I would like to be part of that. I could assure the Islanders, of course, that if they had me as their local representative they could have no one better, but I feel that they would be better left outside the Australian political scene. It should not be beyond the ingenuity of this Government and the bureacracy which supports it to find a mechanism by which the people of Norfolk Island can have more democracy and more say in their own affairs and not be made part of Australia. 
-Tonight I raise 2 matters concerning conditions of Public Service employment. The first matter with which I should like to deal follows on a speech given during the adjournment debate last week by that famous public servant basher, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  It concerns first-class air travel for public servants going overseas. This is a matter which has been before the Parliament on a number of occasions and a number of honourable members have taken the opportunity of rather insensitively speaking about the rights of public servants when they go overseas. 
I feel quite strongly that members of the Public Service in certain circumstances are entitled to first-class air travel. I believe that all senior officers of First and Second Division status should travel first-class as I do and as do other members of Parliament. I believe quite strongly that public servants, where their families, include children under the age of 16 years, should be able to travel first-class when they have to travel many thousands of miles. I do not say this because I think first-class air travel is a privilege or that public servants should be pampered. I say this because I feel that Australia is a very remote country and a country which has conditions of service and needs quite different from those of so many other diplomats and members of government services of other countries. Families who travel for 24 or 36 hours on end are under extreme difficulties. Mothers would find it very difficult to deal with their children, particularly small children with nappies to be changed if they have to queue up for toilets and the like. First class travel for them is not a matter of rich food and free grog; it is a matter of necessity in caring for their children. 
The third category of people whom I feel should have first class air travel comprises unaccompanied children under the age of 18 years. I think it would be quite wrong if we expected children of public servants who are not accompanied by their parents to travel overseas in crowded accommodation in aircraft when they could be at risk or feeling very insecure. The extra assistance and attention they would get in first-class travel is justified. The next class of people who should travel first-class is made up of people travelling because of medical evacuation. If a person who is so sick that he has to be transported back to Australia as quickly as possible cannot travel in the relative comfort of first class accommodation, I think the people of Australia would be letting him down. One further class of people for whom I would recommend first-class travel would be members of delegations, no matter what their status in the Public Service, depending upon what duties they have to perform when they arrive. If people have to be effective within 24 hours of arriving I feel that they should have comfort and sleep so that they can do the best for the Australian public when they arrive. 
The second matter I should like to raise in relation to the Public Service is a disgraceful Press release by the Secretary of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association in Canberra last Friday. I think his name is  Mr Blunden,  but I would suggest his name should be  Mr Blunder.  He has jeopardised very delicate negotiations that are taking place in relation to paternity and maternity leave because he feels strongly against the Fraser Government. He is not an objective unionist. He is not representing his members. He is trying through his position to get back at a government and to espouse socialist policies in which he personally believes. He has jeopardised negotiations. He has risked a substantial backlash from this Government and members of the Opposition who feel very strongly on the subject of paternity and maternity leave. I suggest that members of his union should reproach him severely for this outburst at a time when the deliberations are in a delicate situation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr HODGMAN (Denison) ( 10.52 ^Tomorrow is 3 1 May and it is significant that it is the anniversary of 2 historic battles. On 3 1 May 1 859 the battle of Palestro occurred and we celebrate tomorrow the 119th anniversary of that battle. To the best of my knowledge it was fought in Italy and resulted in a draw. But on 3 1 May 1916 the battle of Jutland occurred. On any basis, the battle of Jutland was the last great naval encounter in the history of the world. Tomorrow therefore is the 5 1st anniversary of the battle of Jutland. If one likes to check back one finds that there are remarkable similarities between the battle of Jutland on 3 1 May 1916 and the battle of Canberra to be fought in this building tomorrow. The battle of Jutland was the first occasion on which the British and German navies actually came into each other's sight. If I might say so, it is a fair summary to say that the battle of Jutland, in essence, was a fiasco. This was so much so that in the sporting terms of Admiral Beatty at the commencement of the battle between the German battle cruiser squadron and the British battle cruiser force, when two of Beatty 's battle cruisers were blown up Beatty remarked in a jocular fashion to his flag captain: There seems to be something wrong with our bloody ships today'. A little later a further encounter took place, but it is best summed up by referring to a fascinating book by Stephen KingHall in which he describes the battle of Jutland in its concluding stages in these terms: 
A confused, short and ineffective exchange of gunfire took place between the battle fleets. Some damage was done to the enemy, none to the British. The German fleet, almost encircled, turned to the west and then back to the east. Darkness descended and a strange quiet prevailed for a short period. The British fleet steamed slowly southwards, the battleships in the van, the destroyers and light forces in the rear. For the first and only time in the war the British Grand Fleet was between the High Seas Fleet - 
That is the German fleet- and its base. When all the signals and movements were later analysed, it was evident that the Germans, between the hours of 10.00 p.m. and midnight, crashed through the light forces following the British battleships without the British C-in-C appreciating what was happening only 10 miles to the north of him. 
In fact the Germans escaped. I quote again from Stephen King-Hall's comments. He wrote: 
It is even today . . . common to find it said that although the German fleet was not destroyed it 'never dared come out again'. 
I conclude by predicting that battleships will always defeat cruisers, and the cruiser about to be defeated tomorrow, like the German fleet, will never dare come out again. By that I mean that the Party opposite us, of which I do not have the honour to be a member, should choose to be led by a battleship rather than a light weight cruiser. 
-Unlike the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  who preceded me in this debate, this is the first time that I have spoken in a debate in this House on uranium. The honourable member for Hotham seemed to me to be arguing against himself. He explained very carefully how it is the buck that does everything and how Arab oil finds its way to Israel. He appeared to me after listening to him to be really explaining why there is absolutely no point in Australia keeping its uranium in the ground and why the report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry- the Fox report- is quite correct in stating that no matter what we do in Australia or what we recommend it is not going to make an ounce of difference to what happens in the world. That is because of our size and because of what has been pointed out by the honourable member for Hotham; that is, that the magic buck will find a way to make things happen. So I cannot follow his argument that we should leave our uranium in the ground for a short period or a number of years while certain things are clarified and certain safeguards are introduced. No matter what we do, if uranium is a curse it is a curse that will be with us. I accept the point of view, of course, that if it is proved that uranium is a curse, perhaps we should not on moral grounds encourage something that is bad. If that is the point that the honourable member was making, I agree with him. 
I think that I should be careful to ensure that the people who are listening to this debate this afternoon know exactly where we are at in the uranium debate. Honourable members will remember that a major statement of the first Fox inquiry was as follows: 
The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increase in the risk of nuclear war. This is the most serious hazard associated with the industry. Complete evaluation of the extent of the risk and assessment of what course should be followed to reduce it involve matters of national security and international relations which are beyond the ambit of the inquiry. 
Honourable members will know that following upon that statement we had the Carter initiative. It was an initiative that electrified the world and that I think certainly changed the whole complexion of the nuclear debate in this Parliament and Australia. Suddenly the thing that was worrying most of us- the plutonium economywas encapsulated by the  President  of the United States of America, and suddenly all of the things that had been worrying people who had been branded as 'trendies' and 'greenies' became respectable. 
I think that that is what  Mr Justice  Fox and his fellow Commissioners were pointing to. That is what the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of 24 May on the Government's policy on nuclear safeguards followed on so responsibly and where this Parliament was fulfilling its proper role in deciding what should be happening in Australia. The nuclear debate can take place in many ways, but in the end somebody has to decide what is to happen. It must be this Parliament and it must be the government of the day. I was rather alarmed to hear the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who is a shadow Minister and who spoke second for the Opposition in the debate, carrying on as he did in an earlier debate and threatening, blackmailing and trying to assert that things will not happen unless the Opposition in this Parliament and the unions outside of this Parliament agree. I think that that is sad and irresponsible. It certainly appears to be immature from a member of the Opposition who is supposed to have so much promise. 
The second Fox report contains conclusions which I think it is already agreed throughout the community will enable uranium mining and export to proceed. The first inquiry gave the Government a reason for not proceeding if it wanted to sieze upon some of the suggestions contained therein. The thread throughout the first inquiry was mainly that there was nothing that one could really say that made the mining and export of uranium absolutely irresponsible. It is stated throughout the first 4 recommendations that if activities are properly regulated and controlled there is nothing to justify uranium mining not proceeding. The second report states that the Ranger project can proceed if the provisions of the report are adhered to- if the controls and safeguards are adhered to. 
What does that mean for us? Does that mean that we in this Parliament can now rush headlong into a decision to mine and export uranium? Is it a green light? Of course it is not. This Government still has a heavy responsibility in relation to the 2 reports and the points that have been raised by honourable members opposite in this debate this afternoon. It is hoped by many supporters of the Government and, I think, some members of the Opposition that we will be able now to proceed quickly and that we will be able now to make the sorts of decisions that national parliaments should make. We are the elected representatives of the people. Those who wish to lie on the road at traffic intersections and to block bridges do not have the responsibility for making decisions; it is the Parliament of Australia. The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O 'Keefe)  outlined to the House the work that has been done by the Government's back bench committee on trade and national resources. I think it is important for the people of Australia to know that when we talk in this Parliament about debate we are not necessarily talking entirely about debate that takes place in this chamber. The Trade and National Resources Committee, being a Government back bench committee, has met once or twice a week for almost the last 18 months. It has spent ten or fifteen days travelling throughout Australia looking at mines, taking evidence and deciding for itself just how our resources should be developed. The committee has taken evidence from prominent people on all sides of the uranium debate. Opposition committees do exactly the same thing. So those people who wish to discredit the Parliament and discredit the institution should remember that the hours spent on debate in this chamber are only a small portion of the discussion and debate that take place between members of Parliament. 
I am sorry that the honourable member for Hotham has now left the House. I feel that some of the work that he did earlier in trying to get this debate brought forward was valuable. My only regret is that he was not a member of the back bench committee that did so much work on this matter. The honourable member claimed that the debate was being stifled, but manifestly it was not. If the Government makes a decision to proceed with uranium mining- I personally think that it should- the real crunch, I suppose, for the uranium industry over the next few months will come when it tries to get through the mine fields of recommendations and administration that have been laid down in the second Fox report. I believe that everything in this report is important and that it is absolutely crucial for the safeguards, in the main, to be adopted. But we must not let the sorts of safeguards that creep into what is predominantly a report to protect the environment set aside other important issues. 
Justice Fox was not asked to make decisions on the development of the economy of the Northern Territory. He did not have to fit the uranium situation into the development of Australia as a whole. He had something to say about the energy crisis, but really his was not the responsibility of solving it. The Government will have to take its decisions on this important report over the coming months against this wide background. It will have to make judgments as to whether sequential development of the mines is necessary or whether in fact there are other ways of going about the development of uranium resources which have not been put to Fox or which Fox has not thought of and which may enable work to get under way more quickly without any risk to the environment or the Aboriginal population in the areas concerned. 
This has been one of the most interesting parts of my parliamentary career to date. I was elected to this place at a time when the development of our uranium resources was such a burning issue for Australia. The Government is fortunate that it has such a strong majority and so many well qualified and experienced members, both on the front bench and the back bench, at a time when this decision is to be taken. I would be alarmed enormously if the decision on uranium had had to be taken at a time when the government of the country was not in such good hands. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) Was there a strike by members of the Australian Capital Territory Teachers' Federation on Tuesday, 12 April 1977. 
If so, how many teachers attended school on 12 April 1977. 
What is the total number of teachers in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Do headmasters of schools in the A.C.T. have the right to request staff members to indicate whether they will or will not be taking part in strike action where the strike action has been previously and publicly announced by the Teachers' Federation. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) Did he state in answer to question No. 362  (Hansard,  31 March 1977, page 883) that the total revenue received from Canberra ratepayers for excess water rates was $291,814.44 during 1976. 
What are the costs of collecting that amount including accounting, meter reading, transport, meter repairs and maintenance, replacement of meters, depreciation and notional interest charges and any other charges attributable to that revenue. 
I rise during this Grievance Day debate to speak about the future of Canberra. The House would be aware that Canberra, the national capital, went through an explosive boom during the years of the Labor Government. It became the social laboratory of the mad alchemists, and not unnaturally the experiment blew up in their faces. There were labour shortages and the price of a normal 3-bedroomed house doubled during that period. Building workers from all over Australia flocked into Canberra, the national capital. To say that Canberra resembled a gold rush town of the 1830s would not be an exaggeration. All this came to a sickening end with the Hayden Budget of 1973. Jobs were stopped and expansion of the Public Service disappeared overnight. In short, the balloon burst. 
The people of Canberra knew who were to blame and in December 1975 for the first time members of the Liberal Party were elected to Parliament by the voters of the Australian Capital Territory, with instructions to restore good, sound government. The people of Australia know how this Government has responded to the task of salvaging the country's economy. They know that the long, relentless struggle to reduce inflation and in turn to reduce interest rates and to create jobs is progressing well. People seem to forget at the moment that there are more people in Australia in work now than ever before. I say that as an aside, because we all know the other side of the problem; there are many thousands of people not working. When we have such a problem it amazes me that the sanctimonious members of the Opposition, who have a duty to their electors to help pull Australia through, can do nothing but lend their support to the disruptive forces of the Left who want to wreck Australia in the name of social change. 
This national city, Canberra, has been through a period of fundamental change in the last 2 years. The cutbacks introduced by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  were immediately tempered by skilled government and good administration. Undertakings were given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that there would be no sackings in the Public Service due to budgetary restraints. Departments that had become flabby were required to knock their administration and work efficiency into shape. In other words, the Disneyland aspects of the Whitlam Administration were removed. Several major building projects were got underway again and essential community facilities were constructed. Balanced development returned to Canberra in 1975-76 and 1976-77. The bolting horse was captured, quietened, rubbed down and put to work. All this has been done in 20 months. It has been done so efficiently that we have changed the electorate of Canberra which I represent from being in a position of undersupply of almost everything to being in a position of full supply and, in the cases of land, housing, schools and perhaps shops, excess supply. It is said by many people that we now have too much in a material sense. Except for the problems of youth unemployment and some areas of depressed demand in business, Canberra is in great shape. 
But what of the future?  Senator John  Knight, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  and I have achieved what we set out to do for the electorate of Canberra when I threw aside a good career in law to try to assist the return to sanity in this fair Australian city. The people of Canberra have responded magnificently. They now pay their way like all other Australians. They are no longer the spoilt, pampered people of Canberra derided by the rest of Australia. They are now citizens of Australia in every sense. They have taken on the chin the increases in charges which the Government I support has imposed in order to get the house in order. In 1977-78 the necessary slow-down in growth will allow the Government to divert massive resources in order to bring the development of Belconnen into line with that of Woden. Very large amounts of money are to be spent in an area which gradually is being changed from a veritable desert of community facilities to a thriving centre. The seal of approval of these efforts has been given by that great Australian retail store, the Myer Emporium Ltd, which has decided to come to Canberra. By the end of 1978 Canberra's development will be evenly spread; it will be of a high standard; and it will be adequate. That is exactly what we promised to do when we came to government in 1975. We promised to do that in three years and we will achieve that goal. 
At this point, however, I must throw down a new challenge to my party, to the Cabinet and to the Prime Minister. What of the future? What are the Government's intentions for the people of Canberra and, more importantly, what are its plans for the employment of our young people? We have never had real trouble with employment in this city. It is predominantly a city of public servants. Its past phenomenal rate of growth has ensured jobs in the building industry and in the Public Service, but this will not continue. It cannot continue under the very proper policies of this Government which has undertaken to contain public expenditure and to reduce the tax rip-offs of the past. The people of Canberra do not want a growth rate of 10 per cent. Currently we are enjoying the slower growth rate so that overpasses can be built, so mat we can catch up with health centres, so that community centres and schools can be developed before they are needed rather than many years later, and so that shops can be constructed when needed rather than years afterwards. But we need a blueprint from the Cabinet as to how it sees the future of Canberra. We need certainty and confidence so that our families can plan their futures and so that businessmen can invest and provide facilities for the private sector. We need to diversify our employment base and we need positive action in order to do so. We need much more than mere tokenism. 
Experience over the last 18 months by the combined business and Public Service groups created to promote Canberra indicates that hard headed businessmen will not come to Canberra on the basis of its good looks. They need more than the incentive of a prosperous market of 200 000 people. Much success has been achieved already through the offer of special leases, but the evidence is that incentives must be developed to match those offered by the State departments of decentralisation. Employment opportunities must be created for our young people not just by the mindless expansion of the Public Service. In the national capital we must have choice and diversity for our young people to ensure that it reflects the real Australia and is not an unduly artificial city. 
I suggest that Cabinet consider the following measures to reassure the people of Canberra and the rest of Australia as to the future of Canberra, now that the wreckage of the Whitlam years has been cleared: A statement should be made in this House by the Prime Minister on the expected growth rate and pattern of growth of the national capital over the next three to five years. 
The Government should undertake, on behalf of the people of Australia, to guarantee that the current high standard of our national capital will be maintained in the future so that all Australians will remain proud of their national capital and see it as continuing to be second to none in the world. 
The full ramifications of the moves towards constitutional development for the Australian Capital Territory should be explained to the people of Canberra. A suitable period should be dedicated to debating those proposals which give the people of this city a say in the administration of local matters. 
Consideration should be given either to a referendum or to a properly conducted public opinion poll to test just now much local control should be handed over to our local Legislative Assembly. 
The Government should immediately announce the transfer of at least 1000 public servants into Canberra and future plans for further transfers should be outlined 
Wide-ranging incentives for the establishment of clean, labour intensive industries in Canberra should be developed as a matter of urgency and should include payroll tax rebates, low interest rate loans, concessional rates on municipal charges, freight equalisation incentives, subsidised industry based child care facilities, as well as concessional rates for electricity. With those measures put before the people of Canberra, full and proper incentive will return to my electorate as will business sector and Public Service confidence. 
-The people of Australia have heard a speech in the last 20 minutes which must convince them that there is need for this legislation. The sort of buffoonery and ratbaggery that goes on in this place and by representatives of what were unions is quite beyond me. 
I do not feel that I reflected on the honourable member. 
For over three weeks during the parliamentary recess I had the privilege of travelling in the outback of Australia. There was only one thing that the people in the outback wanted this Government to do. That was to get the country running and to stand up to unions. Therefore, there is no doubt that the sort of legislation which is being put forward is the right legislation. If anybody wants to complain about this legislation it should be those militant unionists who are bringing this country to its knees. We are being forced into this action; it is not something we are doing of our own choice. 
I shall now convince honourable members opposite about something to do with liberalism and the party I stand for. We have been told by Opposition speakers that the Liberal Party is a dictatorship run by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  They say that we just do as we are told. I would like to raise a serious question in relation to this legislation, namely, that there appears to be absolutely no right of appeal for a unionist who has been dismissed under clause 8.  Senator John  Knight and I have taken this matter up with the Minister and at this point of time, while I am on my feet,  Senator Knight  is trying to clear it up. I indicate to honourable members opposite, to show how the Liberal Party works, that unless a right of appeal is brought into this legislation I will not support it. 
I represent in my electorate more than 25,000 public servants. I have to say that if I were still in the Public Service and legislation that did not contain a right of appeal were introduced by the Australian Labor Party, if it were in government, I would be very alarmed. I think that is an absolutely proper way to feel. I do not feel that public servants should be put in any situation where they would be open to political victimisation by any party. So I am saying that if there is no right of appeal for a person dismissed under this legislation I will not support the Government on the legislation- for that reason, and for that reason only. Generally, I support the legislation and I support the reasoning behind it. However, I cannot support legislation which does not contain a right of appeal. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member knows- 
The honourable member who raised that point of order appeared on television tonight. I watched the program and he was trying to appear to be very knowledgeable. I would have thought that, if I- a relatively new back bencher in this Parliament, with very little industrial relations experience- had worked that out at 4.30 p.m. today, he might have worked it out too. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for the Capital Territory been drawn to a statement I made on 18 August calling on the Government to explain the full ramifications of its proposals for moves towards constitutional development for the Australian Capital Territory and to ensure, following such explanation, that a suitable period will be dedicated to allow debate on those proposals by the community? Can the Minister indicate when he will announce the Government's decision on the delegation of authority to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly? 
-Unlike the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam),  I lived in Canberra during the years of the former Whitlam Administration. I know what that Administration did to the Public Service. I know how the Public Service squirmed and why it put me into Parliament. For the honourable member- he is a new member of Parliament who was overseas for most of that time- now to claim that this Government is guilty of some form of Public Service bashing is complete hypocrisy. We all know what the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  had to say about the Public Service. We all know how successions of Ministers abused senior public servants, went behind their backs for advice, of how they appointed political appointees and generally brought the Public Service to ridicule. I am not going to hide from the problem faced in Canberra because the Government thought it necessary to cut back on expenditure. That policy has fallen heavily in ( tan.berrra. We went through a period of unbridled growth. The Public Service suffered because of that. There were plenty of jobs around and many public servants spent most of their time putting in for new jobs and reading the Government  Gazette  instead of getting on with the job. All that has changed. The Public Service Board in its 1 977 annual report correctly states: 
Both the Government and the public have a right to expect that such an emphasis should be a continuing and pervasive feature of public service management. 
The Board made this comment in relation to ensuring that staff restrictions had led to critical examinations and improvement of planning, organisation of work, analysis of priority and effective use of resources. 
This Government came to power at a time when the whole Australian economy was in tatters. It had a job, given to it by the people of 
Australia by a quite massive majority, of bringing sound government back to this country. One of the most elementary rules of administration is to make sure that the people who work for an administration do so properly and efficiently. I worked in the Public Service for  5Vi  years of my working life of 1 5 years. I know something of private enterprise, both large business and small business, and I know something of the Public Service. Not one public servant in my electorate of Canberra would claim that the Public Service is perfect. 
The stories one hears of inefficiency, slackness and mismanagement when one talks with public servants in Canberra are legion. I am not suggesting that the practices are widespread, but we all know of them. Only recently, when I was drinking in a hotel at Woden during the lunch hour, having a counter lunch, not while Parliament was sitting, I overheard a public servant who was standing next to me say: 'Well, I had better go back to work and have a snooze'. That was said at a time when there were widespread complaints, particularly in Canberra, of public servants being overworked and understaffed. 
I believe the Public Service Board was quite correct in pointing out to the Government that staff ceilings cannot be reduced any further and that any management techniques which are introduced from now on will have to be much more sophisticated and much more flexible and will not have to be such a blunt instrument. When one comes into government and finds the country in trouble, when one finds the country going bankrupt, the niceties, I am afraid, sometimes have to be put aside while one rolls up one's sleeves and gets one's hands dirty. Once things have been set in order, I believe, some of the more sophisticated and gentler processes of management can be used. 
Let us look at the figures relating to Public Service employment in the Australian Capital Territory. I feel that those people who have been complaining so strongly about the situation in Canberra perhaps have been overstating the issues a little. In Canberra the Public Service fulfils two functions. The first is to serve the nation through policy departments. The second is to provide the people of the Capital Territory with services such as those undertaken by State governments and municipalities. Let us look at the figures for the State and municipal-type functions in Canberra. There is very little evidence of any fall in the delivery of community services. The number of people employed by the Australian Capital Territory Police has fallen from 570 at the end of November 1975 to 549 at the end of June this year. That was a marginal and regrettable decrease. The number of people employed by the Canberra Theatre Trust has remained the same. 
The number of people employed by the Australian Capital Territory Fire Brigade-the provision of fire prevention services is essential in any city- has increased from 111 to 165 during the same period. That is a quite massive increase. The number of people employed by the National Capital Development Commission, the body charged with the responsibility of planning and building a national capital, has fallen from 491 to 405. At the same time senior officers of the NCDC have assured the people of Canberra and the people of Australia that the number of staff they have and the amount of money they have are quite adequate to meet the needs of a capital which is now growing more slowly. The total number of staff of the Department of the Capital Territory plus its statutory authorities has grown, albeit by a small amount, from 4,640 in November 1975 to 4,663 in June 1977. It has done so with some trauma. I feel that by and large it is a much more efficient and much tighter operation than it was when this Government came to power. 
Another particularly important area in Canberra is education. We have a very young population, and it is growing. Let us look at the staff figures for the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority for a similar period, 31 October 1975 to 31 August this year. The number of Australian public servants administering our education has risen from 596 to 698. The number employed by the Commonwealth Teaching Service has risen from 2,569, with 93 part time, to 2,825, with 251 part time. That is hardly the record of a government which is neglecting the basic rights of and its basic obligations to the people of the Capital Territory. I do not have the figures for the Capital Territory Health Commission, but I understand that there have been like increases, although at this point there are some strains in relation to the obligation to open the Calvary Hospital- not to staff the hospital but to support the staff that will go into that hospital from a Roman Catholic order. 
The Public Service is the largest organisation in Australia. In Canberra it provides jobs for our young people. It is a key organisation in relation to employment in the Capital Territory. I repeat information which  Senator John  Knight and I have received from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in relation to the growth of the Public Service in Canberra, and that is that during the next few weeks Cabinet will consider the transfer of some 400 extra public servants to Canberra, that 200 public servants will be appointed on a temporary basis to the Department of the Capital Territory during the Christmas holidays and that during the coming weeks additional positions will be created in the Taxation Office, Canberra. There will be many jobs for school leavers because of normal wastage during the next 6 months. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 1) 1977-78 Second Reading (Budget Debate) 
Debate resumed from 15 September, on motion by  Mr Lynch: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I address a question to the Minister for Health. He would be aware of certain undertakings given during the 1975 election campaign to nurses in the Australian Capital Territory concerning the composition of the Capital Territory Health Commission. Can the Minister inform the House whether any decision has been made on the appointment of a full time commissioner with nursing qualifications to the Capital Territory Health Commission? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
1 ) How many licensed poker machines were in situ in the Australian Capital Territory on the first day of each month from November 1976 to September 1977. 
What was the (a) total profit and (b) turnover of all licensed poker machines for each month from November 1976 to August 1977. 
-Speaking tonight following the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  is indeed a pleasure for me. The honourable member was the Minister for the Capital Territory at one time and he was much loved by many people because he brought to the Australian Capital Territory some of his own philosophies, which included a refusal to increase the rent on government houses, much against the wishes of the then Prime Minister, I understand, and fortunately with the approval of Caucus. The people of Canberra are now being asked to pay their way, and they have had to catch up a little lost time with government rents, thanks to the honourable member for Wills. It has appeared more recently that they have had increases at a quicker rate than they would have liked. 
The total appropriation for the Capital Territory is $72.6m, compared with $66.4m in the last financial year and a figure of $63.9m actually spent. At a time when the Government is screwing down government expenditure in quite a proper way the Capital Territory has done well. Investigation of the figures indicates that in almost every area we have done exceedingly well, but there are always problems. In the recreation, cultural and community services areas the funds are down marginally. That is very disappointing to me as a local member. In the area of social welfare there is an increase of $ 1.1m. I will return to that later. On the surface, at least, it looks like a good increase. Funds for the fire brigade, the city bus service, the police force and parks and gardens are all up. 
Funds for government dwellings, services and caretaking also have increased. But, at a time when government rents have increased dramatically, as the honourable member for Wills pointed out, I believe that this Government has a very strong responsibility to maintain those houses in a proper way. It is all very well when one is paying a rent which is much less than market value to put up with a lack of painting and some bad plumbing, but when the landlord says that one must pay the market rate it is a terrible double standard if the landlord does not look after the property properly. Over the next 12 months I certainly will be taking a great deal of interest in just how much money, time and attention is being put into making sure that the 10,000 government dwellings in Canberra in which people and families live are maintained properly. 
No. I am not up to resigning, because I think that as a young man I still have much energy and that I can do more by staying where I am. 
I thank the honourable member very much. I refer now to the welfare budget. The welfare budget has increased predominantly because of the need for higher rental rebates. In spite of what the honourable member for Wills said, there is a government housing policy which the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  has announced and discussed recently with State Housing Ministers. The Government believes that all housing rentals should go up to pretty close to market value but that those people who cannot afford to pay that value should be subsidised on a welfare basis by a rental rebate system. A rental rebate system must be fair and uniform around Australia. At this time it is not. 

 Mr Deputy Chairman, I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a comparison of rental rebates throughout Australia which shows quite clearly that the Australian Capital Territory is not doing too well. Many honourable members on both sides of this chamber are always saying that we the people of the Australian Capital Territory are the favoured people of Australia; that we are pampered and over-indulged. If honourable members look at the comparative table of rental rebates they will see that in most cases people in the States do better than we do. As a local member, that is not acceptable to me. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-Is  leave granted for the table to be incorporated in  Hansard!  There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="107131197710132_80_3.jpg"></graphic>

-Further, the rental rebate system is not working well. If somebody wishes to apply for a rental rebate his application is considered on the basis of his average income over the previous six months. Honourable members would appreciate that the income earned in the previous six months by a recently deserted wife, someone who has had an accident or sickness or someone who suddenly has become unemployed bears little relationship to their current problem. It is quite important that the rental rebate system be examinee? closely by the Minister for the Capital Territory and his officers because it is patently unfair to deserted wives or husbands, people suffering from accident or sickness and the unemployed. 
Another group of people who find it very difficult to meet the rental payments are lone supporting parents. They have an added burden. They do not have a person who can stay at home and look after children; so they have to pay for child care facilities. If they have two or three children, often the rent burden becomes intolerable. I join with  Senator Ryan  in another place in calling upon the Minister for the Capital Territory to review the POliCY and take into account child care payments by lone parents and also family size. 
Dealing further with the welfare Budget, in the Territory at the moment the welfare branch is under extreme pressure. Unemployment has risen to a level less than that which is being ex- perienced around Australia but certainly much higher than we are used to. Famines in the Capital Territory are not close to relatives. Most people have come here from other places and when they have personal problems they have to fall back on the community and not on their famines. The welfare branch needs more assistance. The extra $ 1.1m it has received is probably not enough. 
Another area which I think needs assistance in a new city is that of community development officers. Most municipalities have community development officers financed through the municipal rate or State governments. The city of Queanbeyan, which is only a few kilometres from here, has community development officers. Tn Canberra there are some community development officers but not enough. For an expenditure of some $60,000 or $70,000 we could have four community development officers in Canberra, one for the south side, one for the north side, one for Belconnen and one for Woden and Tuggeranong. 
-I imagine that some members from Western Australia do get a little lonely here and perhaps they could get some succour from a community development officer, if that was necessary. Another area about which I wish to speak in closing is that of constitutional development for the Australian Capital Territory. The Territory is about to get a say in its own affairs. Its Legislative Assembly is about to be given powers. Unfortunately, we do not know exactly how much it costs to run the Territory, and I am pleased to say tonight that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  has agreed that the matter of finances and how they will be managed in Canberra should be referred to the Grants Commission for investigation and report. The Minister assured  Senator John  Knight and myself early this week that he would put a proposition to Cabinet suggesting that the whole financial structure of the Territory be examined. I think such an examination will indicate exactly whether we pay our own way or are being paid for by the taxpayers of Australia. If that can be found out, undoubtedly it would give a great deal of enlightenment to the people of Canberra. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and Minister Assisting the Treasurer aware of Press reports that the Government intends to fiddle with the mechanism of adjusting Commonwealth Public Service and other superannuation benefits for cost of living increases? Is there any intention to change the method of adjustment from the existing use of the consumer price index to the mechanism of either the CPI or average weekly earnings, whichever is the lower? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is the Minister aware of an advertisement which appeared in the  Canberra Times  last Saturday seeking support for the Australian Labor Party candidate for the seat of Canberra,  Dr Lawrence?  I ask the Minister whether he is aware that that advertisement states: 
Canberra's unemployment is seven times greater than it was before Fraser. 
What is the true position with respect to the increase in unemployment in Canberra, and is that advertisement a he? 
I shall take only a moment of the time of the House to mention this legislation. Firstly, I thank the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence  (Mr McLeay)  for allowing the legislation to come before the House today. With the pressure of business there was some risk earlier that we might not have been able to fit it in. This legislation, of course, is terribly important to a large number of people throughout Australia, particularly to exservicemen in the Australian Capital Territory whom I represent. 
I should like to touch upon the two most important parts of the legislation. The first is the non-cessation in future of the spouse's pension on remarriage. This is a very important piece of progress, not only for ex-servicemen in general, ut also for women in particular. The second most important part of the legislation is the nondetriment provisions to protect certain late entrant officers transferring to the new scheme against any possible diminution of their pension entitlement for which they were contributing at the time of transfer. The amendment is to be effective from the date of commencement of the present scheme, namely, 1 October 1972. Other parts of the legislation are aimed at overcoming anomalies and technical defects in the Defence Force retirement and death benefits legislation. I commend the legislation to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
What is: 
the radiated power and 
the frequency band width of the ACT radio stations: 
2CN/JJ 1440 kHz, 
2CY850kHz, 
2CA 1050 kHz, 
2CC 1210 kHz and 
2XX 1010 kHz. 
-I am afraid that I must rise on this occasion to speak on the matter of the new and permanent parliament house. The whole economy of Canberra is on its knees at the moment because the construction industry, the only real industry in Canberra outside the public sector, is being crushed by Government decisions. The whole morale of the people of Canberra at present is at the lowest it has been for many years. This is typified by the decision of the Government yesterday to screw down the amount of money that will be available for homes in Canberra. 
One way the Government could indicate to the people of Canberra that it feels that the city has a long term future, will continue to grow and will be a good place for those people who have chosen to live here and to bring up their children and to give them employment opportunities, would be for it to make a quick decision on the new and permanent parliament house. All of the things that the honourable members opposite have said on working conditions in the House are true. Only a hypocrite in this place would disagree with them. I rose briefly to say that Canberra would appreciate enormously a commitment to this major national project, a project which will take 10 years and which would indicate to the whole country that the future of Canberra is assured. 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Is the Treasurer aware that at least one major trading bank has recently communicated in the following terms to an Australian Capital Territory applicant for a small business loan: 
We regret that because of present tight lending restrictions we are unable to provide the funds sought. 
Is such action contrary to Government policy on small business finance outlined in this House? In view of the Government's decision announced recently to restrict substantially the availability of home finance in the Australian Capital Territory, can the Treasurer indicate whether the Government has embarked on a credit squeeze? 
Is the Prime Minister aware that there is an IBM memory typewriter in my electorate office which is leased? Did  Mr Moyes  ring or contact the Prime Minister to arrange that lease? Were tenders called? Was a certificate of inexpediency issued? Was the matter considered by Cabinet? 
-Does the Minister for Home Affairs recall that during the last Federal election campaign the Government undertook to establish a permanent women's advisory body? When does the Government propose to honour this promise? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. Is the Minister aware of a circular letter being sent to members of this House by the manager of Burton and Garran halls of residence at the Australian National University offering cheap accommodation and meals at these halls to members and tourists? Can the Minister inform the House where the ANU obtained funds to build these halls? Do the halls pay income tax, rates and payroll tax, or make allowances for depreciation of assets, or pay funds into a capital sinking fund or pay interest on the taxpayers' funds advanced to them? Can the Minister assure the House that the Government will critically examine the future funding of the ANU to ensure that it does not set up further business enterprises masquerading as educational facilities? 
-Much as I would like to support the Opposition's amendment on behalf of my constituency and on behalf of the small businessmen in this area, who would undoubtedly profit from it and who may be able to employ more people - 
As the honourable member for Eden-Monaro points out, it would assist the general area by encouraging the employment of more people in Canberra and more money would be spent in Queanbeyan. However, I would be reluctant to support it because it would bring into question the whole thrust of the Government's economic policy, which is to reduce inflation and therefore to create additional employment. The Bill seeks to bring payroll tax in the Australian Capital Territory into line with that in New South Wales, particularly in regard to the areas surrounding the Territory, where our employers and businessmen compete. In his second reading speech the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  stated that it is the desire of the Government to secure consistency between the exemption entitlements of employers in the Australian Capital Territory and employers in New South 
Wales. He went on to say that he was sure that the operators of small businesses in the Australian Capital Territory will welcome the change. They certainly do welcome the change and are very pleased that twice in the last few months the Government has seen fit to increase the exemption for payroll tax. But they see the Treasurer's statement that the Australian Capital Territory is being brought into line with New South Wales as rather cynical and hollow. In New South Wales the Government gives very real incentives to industries located outside the major metropolitan areas. Part of that incentive is administered through payroll tax rebates. I believe that employers in Queanbeyan and in the surrounding areas of Canberra can get those rebates. 
So I call upon the Treasurer, if he is sincere in the statement he makes in his second reading speech, to consider in his deliberations on the Budget for this year bringing the Australian Capital Territory completely into line with New South Wales, which he claims is the desire of the Government. If we are to improve employment prospects in the Capital Territory we have to do so by widening the employment base. There is no doubt at all that that is done by State governments in the rural areas by means of incentives designed to encourage industry to establish and/or to relocate within the State- in other words, outside the major areas of population. Victoria uses amongst its armoury of incentives a rebate in payroll tax. New South Wales does likewise. I believe that other States have payroll tax concessions. 
Other activities are promoted by the State governments throughout Australia in establishing industry and employment opportunities in non-urban or non-manufacturing areas. Canberra is certainly a non-manufacturing area. The Department of the Capital Territory has embarked on some programs designed to assist industry in coming to Canberra, but I am afraid that so far these efforts have predominantly appeared to most business people already operating in the Territory to be tokenistic. There is a scheme operating under which a lease of land in the Capital Territory is made by direct ministerial grant on favourable conditions. But that is being done at a time when anybody in the Capital Territory can pick up industrial land for next to nothing, because nobody really wants it anyhow. A cheap land policy is not nearly good enough. There is a need for cheap loans, loan guarantees, freight incentives and, as I have already mentioned, payroll tax rebates, and, more importantly, a method which is used in many other States, namely, giving preference to decentralised industry in government purchasing. At this time, new industries coming into the Canberra region are attracted predominantly to the Queanbeyan area where the New South Wales Government offers much better incentives than does the Federal Government. 
The other point about decentralisation and offering incentives is that it is more often than not the case that natural economic advantage and the energies of the local promotion attract industry. I think the Government has to spend more time in examining those particular aspects of industrial development in the Capital Territory. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  has gone on record on a number of occasions as saying that tourism is the great strength of the Capital Territory and that it will be the great growth industry. There is absolutely no doubt at all about that. Many projects which the Government has under review at the moment will enhance Canberra's tourist potential. I mention, for example, the new archives building, the new national museum, the Australian Defence Force Academy, or Casey University as it is now known, and also we hope in the future there will be other national buildings such as a national convention and meeting centre which will be used by people from all over Australia. But we have to do more than just talk about these matters. We have to get off our proverbial backside and we have to promote Canberra as the area which is truly the city of Australia. We have to ensure that the 2.S million tourists who come to the capital city each year stay an extra day or two, because for every day they stay, they spend $20 or $30 which goes into the local economy. That money is spent in the local shops and in the local tourist industry. That, of course, creates employment opportunities outside government. 
We as a government are quite certain that the economic policies that we are promoting and pursuing will increase employment opportunities across Australia. There has been a lot of criticism in Canberra of the Government's economic policies. People in the Capital Territory seem to feel that we have been singled out for special attention. I am pleased to say that that is just not the case. During the six years from August 1 97 1 to August 1977, government employment across the whole of Australia has increased by 3.33 per cent. It is interesting to note that, although the Government has been professing the need to cut back on government employment through the imposition of staff ceilings and the like, government employment in Australia and in the Capital 
Territory is still growing while private employment is falling. Private sector employment has declined not just in the last three years but during the last six years. So those people in Canberra who are claiming that the fall off in employment in the private sector is a Canberra phenomenon should look a little further in making their analysis. 
If we in the Capital Territory are faced with an employment situation which is Australia wide, how are we to deal with it? How are we to bolster our private sector? It seems that in spite of all the efforts of the previous Administration in its last few months in office and the efforts of this Administration during the last two and a half years, we cannot quite quell the growth of the bureaucracy- the growing monster, if I can put it that way- and the growth of the complexity of society which calls for more intervention. Of course, society is demanding that the Government does more for it all the time. What do we have to look at in the Capital Territory? What do we in Canberra have to look at in terms of the Capital Territory as we approach the time when the Budget will be presented? What do our Ministers and our senior Cabinet advisers need to look at carefully to ensure that the young people of Canberra, the capital of Australia, have opportunities to get jobs and to enter the workforce? We have Government as an employer, and Government employment is growing, in spite of staff ceilings. Job opportunities are being created by wastage, by people leaving the service, and by growth in some areas. 
The construction and building industry in Canberra has suffered badly because of the quite necessary drop in the growth rate of the capital city from a level approaching 10 per cent to 2.5 per cent or 3 per cent. That drop appears to be stabilising. There is evidence to suggest that the sale of houses in Canberra has picked up again and that the pipeline of unsold nouses is emptying at a satisfactory rate. There are signs also that job opportunities are being created in the retail and service industries. Several large new shopping centres have opened, both in my electorate of Canberra and in the electorate of Fraser. That activity has created a lot of jobs during the last few months. But we know that in the longer term real job opportunities in Canberra in the private sector have to be created in the entertainment and tourism areas. I look forward very much to the presentation of the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism which is inquiring into methods by which to promote the Australian tourist industry. In various areas of Australia the tourist industry will be the great employer of our young people and of members of our ethnic groups who are coming to this country albeit in diminishing numbers. 
There is no doubt at all that the Government's economic policies will create further employment. There is also no doubt at all that the option of increasing government expenditure- the easy way out; the way which was tried in 1974- is not going to be the way to solve the longer term problems of Australia. The mere stabilisation of inflation to within the range of 6 per cent is not going to be enough by itself. It will not guarantee the regeneration of the economy of Canberra or of Australia which is required. There is a need for a gently selective stimulus to growth both in the Capital Territory and in Australia. 
I agree with the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  that the removal as far as possible of payroll tax could be such a gentle stimulation. It certainly would be a major stimulation if the increase could be made at the lower end. Small business looks very carefully at employing extra people because predominantly the dollar comes out of the boss's pocket. As we know, large businesses in Australia are monolithic, oligopolistic and monopolistic in many respects and simply pass on their costs to the consumer. So it is very important that in the forthcoming Budget considerations the Treasurer and his advisers do not just take the easy way out and say: 'We do not want to be pacesetters for the rest of Australia', but that they look carefully at the possibilities of innovative programs in the payroll tax area. 
Is the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development aware that the honourable member for Holt is wearing a badge on his lapel in the House today? Is the badge part of the Minister's responsibility? Can the Minister report to the House the purpose of the activities in the Senate garden at lunch time? 
I would like to commend the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  on the speech of 221 words that he made when introducing the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Amendment Bill in the House. In those 221 words the Minister outlined the absolute thrust of this Bill whereas the shadow minister for the Capital Territory, the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  has just ensured that every person in Australia who may have been listening to this parliamentary broadcast has turned to another radio station. The honourable member said very huie in 30 minutes. The people of the Australian Capital Territory, half of whom I represent by holding the electorate of Canberra, do not expect the rest of Australia to treat the national capital in any way different from the way that the States and municipal areas are treated. Apparently the Australian Labor Party feels that the funding of the electricity supply in the Capital Territory should be met continually from Consolidated Revenue. Honourable members opposite feel that the many millions of people who do not live in the Capital Territory but who are proud of it as their national capital should continue to pay through tax rip-offs for the cost of supplying electricity and capital equipment for the people who are fortunate enough to live in my electorate. 
I do not think that the Government is showing ad hockery. It has adopted a positive long term policy of bringing the Capital Territory, the nation's capital, into line with what happens around Australia. Certainly, when the referendum on the subject of constitutional development is held later this year, some people will say that they would prefer to have other people pay their bills. But I think that the 2 10,000 people in the Capital Territory predominantly believe that they can pay their way. Average earnings in the Capital Territory are the highest in Australia. We have the best urban environment in Australia. Probably, in many ways, it is the best in the world. We are very lucky to live here. But we heard the honourable member for Melbourne, in 30 minutes of agonising, trying to explain to the people of the Capital Territory that they may have to pay a Utile more because of this measure. 
Frankly, I believe that they may have to pay a little more because the funds which will be raised by the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority will now be raised on the open market in a way which is similar to the way in which the funds are raised in the electorate represented by the honourable member for Melbourne- that is through the State Electricity Authority in Victoria. But why should we in the Capital Territory expect any different treatment. 
It is claimed that this is another Budget fiddle. This Budget has been introduced at a time when Australia's economy is in very difficult circumstances. When I travel around Australia I gain the impression that the normal man in the street recognises that the Budget is hurting the hip pocket nerve but on balance he feels that it is probably necessary and that in the longer term he and his children will be better off under the responsible government which has been brought to this country after a very necessary change of government in 1975. 
I would also like to say how pleased I am to be supporting this Bill introduced by the Minister for the Capital Territory. I am proud of the Government which had the good sense to appoint a Minister who is regarded around Australia as a man of honour and integrity. I just wonder what the people of Australia, or more particularly the people of Canberra, would think if the present shadow Minister for the Capital Territory were to have the responsibility of administering the national capital. 
The Labor Party is very quick always to take people's money in the form of taxes and to redistribute it without asking them. The honourable member for Melbourne has said that there is something wrong with holding a referendum in the Capital Territory on the issue of selfgovernment; that it is the people's right to have self-government and that we should not ask them whether they want it. I agree with the honourable member. I believe that it is the right of the people in the National Capital to order their own affairs. I, as an individual, am deeply offended when members of Parliament from interstate tell us how Canberra should be run. I do not think it is right that Ministers in the national Parliament should be ordering our day to day affairs. I think that that should be done by people who are elected by the voters in the national capital. For that reason I will be strenuously supporting the second question in the referendum which calls for passing over to the local Legislative Assembly the responsibility for municipal powers, to be followed later, probably, by the passing over of further powers. 
I will not be supporting the proposition that the Capital Territory should immediately go to a State-like organisation- that we become a Statelike body. I will not be doing so because I feel that the Legislative Assembly would be well advised to take over certain aspects of selfgovernment for the Capital Territory and then win the confidence of the people of the Capital Territory and of Australia that the nation's capital can be run in a business-like way. But to suggest that a referendum is a bad thing, that people should not be asked what they want, seems to me to smack of the very thing which caused me to stand for Parliament in 1975. Between 1972 and 1975 we had three years of government when we were told what was good for us and when our social structure was changed, or tried to be changed, by people with doctrinaire views who were not willing to consult with the mainstream of Australia. When the mainstream of Australia was consulted in December 1975 and again in December 1977, the Government of which I am a member was put into power in a resounding way. For the benefit of those people who are listening to the parliamentary broadcast of this debate tonight and who do not know, I say that I am the first Liberal member ever to hold a Capital Territory seat in the national Parliament. 
As the honourable member for Fraser comments, I might be the last, but I doubt it, because, in spite of the feeling all round Australia that Canberra is made up of a whole lot of idealistic 'Lefties', I can assure those honourable members present tonight and the Minister for the Capital Territory that that is not so. The people of Canberra are truly as reasonable as the people of the rest of Australia. They want to lead the country in the right direction. The 60,000 public servants who work in this city are all very inclined towards doing a good job for Australia and helping this country. 
We talk about the open market and we talk about free enterprise. We talk about pulling our weight. This afternoon I had the privilege of attending the opening of the new Totalisator Agency Board's headquarters in Canberra. That building is probably the most beautiful building in Canberra. It is an imaginative building. It provides working conditions for people which I think would be unsurpassed in the national capital. But it is not a building which has been built by the Government: It is a building which has been built by the TAB and a board of people who have taken up that position to represent the interests of the Capital Territory- and they have done an exceedingly good job. Another building in Canberra which was recently opened- in fact a further stage of the development has been opened- is the Belconnen shopping mall. That is another excellent example of what can happen when the Government permits the community to go forward, to go out into the open market and raise money to build things for other people in Canberra. The cost of borrowing that money is then attributable to the actual enterprise. 
That will happen with the ACT Electricity Authority. The enterprise will be one which continues to provide electricity in a very efficient manner to enable the people of Canberra to heat their homes in winter and to take an active part in ensuring that energy conservation goes forward. The Capital Territory uses electricity generated in the Snowy Mountains and also electricity taken from the New South Wales grid. Electricity is distributed in Canberra; it is not generated here. I should imagine that the electricity reticulation system in Canberra, would be one of the most modern and well-organised in Australia. We were the forerunners in making sure that those unsightly electricity poles did not decorate the streets of the national capital but were put along the back fences. More recently, of course, much of the electricity is being placed underground. The ACT Electricity Authority is probably the most efficient semi-government instrumentality in the Capital Territory. Builders who operate in the Capital Territory and the education system, which uses the services of the ACT Electricity Authority for the servicing of much of its plant and equipment, always say that they can get very quick and good service from the Authority. 
I commend the move by the Government to bring reality to the Capital Territory. Proud as I am of being a member for the Capital Territory, I must always say that this is a very unreal city. It would be wonderful if the rest of Australiaindeed the rest of the world- were to have anything like the urban amenities that we have, but it does not. The real world is outside Canberra. I think that the Government should insist that a city which is now half the size of Tasmania in population and which is one of the most wealthy areas, on an average, in the world should do as is done throughout the rest of this nation. I believe that the Government will get great credit from the people of Australia for taking this move to ask the ACT Electricity Authority to go into the market place, to justify its borrowings and to allocate its resources on a much wider background. 
With regard to self-government, I was surprised that the shadow Minister for the Capital Territory, the honourable member for Melbourne, was unaware of the efforts that have been made over the last week or so to ensure that what was probably an unfortunate Government decision to hold a referendum and an election for the Legislative Assembly at the same time was reversed. I compliment the Minister for the Capital Territory on being flexible enough to see that there was a groundswell of opinion in both the Liberal Party and the Labor Party locally and also in the parties that are not represented in this Parliament by people from the Australian Capital Territory- the National Country Party and the Australian Democrats- to have the referendum held before Christmas and the election next year. I am also surprised that a member of this House who takes on the responsibility of being the shadow Minister for the Capital Territory was unaware that a Press release had been issued this afternoon. 
The Minister has a responsibility to the people of the Capital Territory and I think he acquits himself very well in that regard. I believe that once a Cabinet decision is made on an issue on which there is a substantial amount of controversy in a community information on it should be given to the people through the news media as soon as possible. I commend the Minister on getting that Cabinet decision, which I understand was made this morning, to the people so quickly. 
The ACT Electricity Authority will continue to prosper. There may be some increase in charges because these funds have to be borrowed on the open market. I have no advice at this stage as to whether that is the case. The electricity charges in the Capital Territory are among the cheapest in Australia. Many people are changing over to electric heating because of that fact. Industries in the Capital Territory are using electricity to prosper. I believe completely that the development of this city will not in any way be changed, nor will the standard of living of the people be changed, by this measure. In fact, I think that the autonomy that has been given to the Authority by allowing it to raise its own money will be to the benefit of all the people of the Capital Territory. I support the Bill. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Education aware that the ACT Teachers Federation called a stop work meeting today in the Australian Capital Territory government schools? Is the Minister also aware of any reason why such a meeting could not have been held outside school hours so that students and parents and particularly working mothers would not be inconvenienced? 
It is an honour to follow the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  who speaks so eruditely on the subject of Canberra. As people would know, the honourable member for Fraser and I share the responsibility of looking after the people in the national capital although, of course, we are on opposite sides of the Parliament. That is probably a good thing for the people of Canberra, as we can work together on many occasions with equanimity and to the good benefit of the people. But I am wondering why the honourable member for Fraser went on so much about selfgovernment for the Australian Capital Territory. The Government has made quite clear its proposition to hold a referendum on the question before Christmas this year in order to let the people of Canberra decide whether they want to have self-government or what sort of government they want to have. 
It amazes me also that when the Opposition was in government for three years it had a perfect opportunity to bring self-government into the Capital Territory. What did the Australian Labor Party do in those three years? It did not even talk about self-government. It did nothing. It was during the election campaign of 1975 that we in the Liberal Party developed as part of our party policy a blueprint for moving the Australian Capital Territory towards selfgovernment. I am glad to say that in many ways that blueprint is now coming to pass, even if it is a little more slowly than expected. A great controversy exists in Canberra and the Australian Capital Territory as to whether we should have self-government. I think that the way in which the Government is testing the water is a responsible approach. I share the view of the honourable member for Fraser that it is a little wrong that people outside the Capital Territory make so many decisions on behalf of the people of Canberra. 
I would like to speak briefly in the short time I have about the appropriation for the Department of the Capital Territory. The National Capital Development Commission's 2 1st annual report was tabled in this place today. It sums up the situation in Canberra very well. It states: 
This Annual Report marks the completion of twenty years ' work by the Commission in the planning and development of the National Capital. 
That is the capital of Australia. The report continues: 
In that time Canberra has grown from a population of 39,000 to an estimated 213,000 and the physical structure which has been built to service the needs of this population is a significant national achievement with few parallels anywhere in the world. 
The year under review has been marked by a continuation of lower levels of population growth compared with the mid-1970s. The growth rate is tending to stabilise at about 3 per cent per annum. The local economy is still in the process of adjusting to this change and it has been characterised by relatively high levels of unemployment and a general slowing down in business activity, particularly in the construction industry. 
I thought the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  made a very good speech tonight, pointing out to the people of Canberra how fortunate they are to live in the national capital. I think that very few honourable members would deny that. He also suggested, in passing, that we had a little too much money spent on us. We have the benefit of having a young city, the national capital of Australia. The people of Canberra are very proud in representing all the people of Australia. Many thousands of people visit the city each year. It is trite to say that we are being oversubsidised. 
Those of us who are familiar with the Capital Territory know that the municipal account is prepared on a notional basis and this indicates that we balance our budget in a municipal sense. If we take into account State-like functions as they would be financed by State grants and by revenues collected from taxation which are disbursed to the States, we more than hold our own. We have good administration through the NCDC, through the Department of the Capital Territory and other departments which ensure that the people of Australia get very good value for their money. The Minister for the Capital Territory in a Press statement on the Budget appropriation for Canberra expressed confidence and optimism that the Budget would ensure continued growth for the city. His statement continued: 
However, the Budget did reflect the importance the Government continued to place on restraining public expenditure as a central element of its national economic strategy. 
There is no doubt that the Government is being a little harsher on the Capital Territory than most of us would like, but I think the Government is being fair and even-handed. In fact I went on record after the Budget and said how amazed I was at how well we had done. Being the local member, I must not say that too loudly or people from the electorate of Herbert and other places outside the Australian Capital Territory will come knocking on our door and will ask the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  why we have done so well. 
On balance it is a very responsible Budget. The Department of the Capital Territory has fared well. NCDC spending has been cut back substantially, but we must take into account the much lower growth rate in Canberra. We know that the NCDC still has plenty of work to get on with. We are to have more bus drivers. There will be more money for police and fire services. The Commissioner for Housing loan has risen to $23,000. Recreation, cultural and community services have been allocated a little more money. We have been able to give more money to welfare. Compared with State budgets, I think that we have done just as well as people in the States. At a time when New South Wales, the State which surrounds the Capital Territory is to have an election, I think it is wise that the New South Wales residents know that most of the people in the Capital Territory think that the present administration is doing a very workmanlike job in this city. 
One area in the Budget about which I have some concern is Australian Capital Territory schools. At the moment the ACT Schools Authority, the Federal Department of Education and the Australian Teachers Federation are having somewhat of a difference over the staff ceilings which probably will apply in 1979. Unfortunately the position is being exacerbated by people who are trying to confront senior Ministers of this Government and by the Teachers Federation which is holding stop work meetings a little early in the battle which it thinks is to come. Stop work meetings in education are always a sad thing. They affect the students themselves. They affect parents and, more particularly, single parents or working mothers who have either to miss work or leave their children at home when teachers go on strike. I must express disappointment tonight that the Teachers Federation could not have waited another week or so so that this industrial problem, this problem about the future of our children's education, could be settled in a responsible way. So far most statements made have been responsible. However, I am not in favour of stop work meetings during school time. 
In closing, I pass on to one thing which affects my electorate and which I think should be aired in the national Parliament even though it is a fairly parochial issue. I refer to the closing of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation subbranch office at Narrabundah. I refer to the matter at a time when the Parliament has had presented to it the Commonwealth Banking Corporation annual report which indicated a profit, after provision for taxation, of $22. 9m. This is a banking corporation which is, I suppose, the model for corporations which would be established by a socialist government for the people. It is the sort of thing which would take over the running of this country in all sorts of areas. It is supposed to be the bank of the people. Narrabundah, which is in my electorate, is an area of socio-economic problems. It is an area of high migrant concentration. It contains some low-standard housing to which people on rental rebates have to go at least in the initial period of being helped. There are many pensioners and old people. But, there is only one bank. I have a letter here from  Mr Christie  of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation who says: 
In reply to your telegram of 1 8 September 1 978 I wish to confirm that it is the Corporation's intention to close the Narrabundah sub-branch on 29 September 1978 because there are security problems with the premises. 
I fully appreciate that the closure of Narrabundah subbranch will provide a measure of inconvenience to the local community. 
In closing I simply say that I hope one of the private enterprise banks gets off its backside and opens a branch in Narrabundah. I would have thought that a bank with a profit of $22. 9m could cover security problems in an area which has many pensioners and poor people. 
-I ask the Minister for Home Affairs whether he is aware of a recent Press report that the Chief of the Air Staff, when asked whether women would be allowed to train as pilots in the Royal Australian Air Force, stated: ' Do you want me to spend $ 1 m of your money to train a Mirage pilot who will leave in a couple of years?' Does this indicate Government policy towards women? Is the Minister's Department doing anything to widen understanding of the expanding opportunities for women in the community? 
I rise tonight to bring to the attention of this House an industrial dispute which is disrupting the Australian Capital Territory schools system. Today the Australian Capital Territory Teachers Federation commenced a campaign of rolling strikes designed to put pressure on the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  to increase the number of teachers to be made available to the Australia Capital Territory government schools system. This tactic has been backed by an extensive and expensive media advertising campaign using Press, radio and television - 
There has been orchestrated public meetings, meetings of school parents and citizens associations and meetings of teachers. 
Pre-prepared motions were passed at all these meetings, and I compliment those responsible for arranging the compaign on its professional delivery. It had all the trappings of a campaign organised by trained political activists and I am sure that it will serve as valuable experience for a similar campaign which, I understand, is to be run just before the Federal election to be held in 1980 but with a different purpose in view. 
Having said that, I must ask whether the whole exercise has been honest in its thrust or necessary, in the light of the dislocation of schools, children, teachers and parents it has caused. The major thrust of the campaign has been dishonest, so dishonest that if any teacher of consumer protection at a school saw such a campaign using such material mounted by a private firm or business house he would be outraged and undoubtedly would use it as a good example to his students of the excesses of the capitalist system. An advertisement in the  Canberra Times  today stated: 
We are not prepared to accept the decision of the Minister for Education to enfore staff cuts . . . 
It also stated:  . . threatens the future education of every child attending a Government School. 
If these claims could be substantiated, I certainly would join the teachers myself. However, they are such overstatements of* the facts that they cannot be described as anything but dishonest. They are so dishonest that I must question the suitability of the people who are drafting the advertisements to teach our students. How can anyone claim that there have been cuts in staffing of our schools when, demonstrably, 40 extra teachers are being provided next year? We have 2,732 teachers this year and will be getting up to 2,772 teachers next year. How can it be claimed that that situation will 'threaten the future education of every child attending a government school ' when on the figures accepted by the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority there are only 13 fewer teachers than it wanted, in a system employing 2,772 teachers? 
Other savings result from the fact that many new teachers asked for are simply not required. No starting teachers will be appointed in 1979. In addition, six teachers from a new high school, which informed educational opinion states is not viable, will be saved. Two positions have been saved within the schools office itself. The fact that these positions are not required will make no difference at all to face-to-face teaching in the schools. The whole issue boils down to an argument about 13 extra teachers in a system which provides for 2,772 teachers. How myopic can people be? How alarming it is to see this attitude in those charged with the responsibility of teaching our children and instilling in them the characteristics of truthfulness, objectivity and clear thinking. 
I would like to point out to honourable members that the Schools Commission report of 1978 states: 
The Commission believes that in the interests of maintaining proper balance in resource allocation there should be no increase in real per student expenditures on secondary education in the Australian Capital Territory in the immediate future. This is particularly true while resources levels in the Territory are so clearly superior to other States . . . 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-On 6 June this year the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is sitting at the table, introduced the Public Service Amendment Bill 1978 into the House with a view to its being enacted during this year. The Bill proposes the most substantial amendments to the Public Service Act since that Act was passed in 1922. The major parts of the Bill concern, firstly, the rights of officers of the Public Service who move to other areas of Commonwealth employment and, secondly, the disciplinary provisions applicable to staff of the Service. Over the time that I have been in this House- that is, since the demise of the Whitlam Labor Government- it has been fashionable in Canberra to claim that this Government has an anti-Public Service bias. There has in fact been a claim that governments in general, ever since the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  made his famous 'fat cat' statement, have an anti-government employee bias. 
I am pleased, as the honourable member for Canberra representing many thousands of public servants, to be leading for the Government on the resumption of the debate on the second reading of this historic Bill. The Bill should go a long way to assure responsible members of the Public Service that both this Government and, I think, governments in general are concerned for the welfare and better management of the Commonwealth Public Service and that they are not about putting down their own employees. It is not the act of an uncaring administration to introduce this legislation, which has taken so long from the genesis of the need amendment to come to fruition. As the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said, advice has been taken from a wide group of people on a nonpartisan basis. 
This historic Bill will change sections of the legislation which have been in force since 1922. One of the main provisions of the legislation refers to the present Officers' Rights Declaration Act 1928, which specifies the rights of permanent staff of the Public Service who engage in employment with Commonwealth authorities staffed outside the Public Service Act. In 1973, following a comprehensive review of the existing provisions, the Joint Council of the Australian Public Service recommended that the Officers' Rights Declaration Act be repealed and be replaced by a new scheme to be inserted in the Public Service Act. The Public Service Amendment Bill seeks to implement this scheme by the insertion of a new Part IV in the Public Service Act. The scheme covers officers who have taken up a position with a Commonwealth authority for a period of up to three years and maintains their rights in certain important ways. It also covers permanent staff who, at the end of the three-year period- that is the initial perioddecide to stay on. The Bill envisages that the existing Officers' Rights Declaration Act will continue to apply only to persons covered by that Act at the time the new scheme comes into operation. Such persons will, however, have the right to elect to be covered by the new provisions. 
The disciplinary provisions of the Bill, too, have remained virtually unchanged since 1922. Any honourable member of this House who looks after an electorate with a large number of public servants in it would have almost weekly contact with public servants who have some difference of opinion with their employer and who find frustration in dealing with their employer on a number of technical and quasijudicial or legal matters. In 1 973, the Joint Council undertook a comprehensive review aimed at bringing the provisions into line with the modern concept of the role of the disciplinary process in public administration. Some of the points of this review covered the need to facilitate efficient administration and to promote public confidence in the integrity of that administration and the fact that disciplinary processes should not unnecessarily concern themselves with the private lives of staff members. Also, the disciplinary provisions were seen to be needed to be complementary to other management processes of supervision, leadership and staff counselling with disciplinary action generally being a last resort. 
It is necessary for the disciplinary action in the Public Service to be seen as essentially an administrative rather than a judicial process. But, of course, the very necessary principles of natural justice and fairness should be observed in any new scheme. The new disciplinary code proposed in the Bill makes various changes to the existing provisions to take account of these general principles. It is designed to ensure that the process functions more efficiently and effectively. There will be a devolution of the Board's current role so that the department concerned, the immediate employer, is more intrinsically and closely involved in the disciplinary process. This must be a real plus because undoubtedly it will lead to a more personal approach on such matters. Disciplinary appeal provisions will now apply also to temporary staff who have been or will be employed for at least one year. 
Greater emphasis will be placed on the specification of the rights of persons against whom disciplinary action is taken, including such matters as rights of reply to charges, entitlements to reasons for decisions, extension of appeal rights to cover all formal disciplinary action and provisions enabling findings to be reviewed when new evidence comes to light. I regard that as being one of the most important areas of this legislation. It is in that area that public servants find the greatest frustration when they are dealing with disciplinary matters. They can never really come to grips with what they are being accused of or charged with. There is a great reluctance on the part of administrations to give reasons and there are some very technical provisions which prevent proper appeals to be made by people caught up in disciplinary cases. 
Disciplinary action based on improper conduct will be limited by the passage of this Bill to conduct which adversely affects the performance of the officer's duties or brings the Service, itself into disrepute. The relevance or irrelevance of matters extraneous to a person's performance of his duty will not loom large any longer. New provisions will be introduced enabling action to be taken so that officers who absent themselves from duty without authority for more than four weeks will be deemed to have retired from the Service, but to ensure that they are not unfairly deprived or retired from the Service proper appeal provisions will apply. Second Division officers now will be grouped with Third Division and Fourth Division officers for disciplinary purposes. 
There are provisions of the Bill that are designed to simplify and improve aspects of the Public Service Act, which is a very lengthy and in many cases difficult Act for employees and those dealing with it to understand. The Board currently has the responsibility of granting leave without pay. A new general power is to be vested in departments to grant such leave on particular terms and conditions and within guidelines. The Joint Council's proposals in relation to the recognition of prior service and recreation leave arrangements have also been covered by the Bill. I think these particular clauses will lead to some further examination and suggestions when consideration of the Bill reaches the legislation committee stage. I have already received a number of suggestions from public servants in Canberra who feel that perhaps the Bill could go a little further in that respect. The current outmoded restriction on the appointment of graduates to the Public Service will be eliminated and a number of other technical and tidying-up provisions have been included. 
I hope that a detailed analysis of this Bill will be conducted by a legislation committee so that honourable members will have a better opportunity to go through the many sections of what is one of the thickest Bills, if I can put it in that way, to be introduced into the House for some time. It is a complex matter but the legislation committees, operating on a non-partisan basis, should be able to continue the work which has been done since 1973 in bringing this historic Bill before the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Motion (by  Mr Viner  for  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That this Bill be referred to a legislation committee for report by 14 November 1978. 
-It is indeed sad for me to follow in this House a  speaker  such as the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  who has only recently entered this Parliament but who is following the bad and sorry trail of other members of the Opposition who can only ever come into this chamber and speak about doom and gloom, be negative, run the Government down, let the country down, complain about things and not adopt a nonpartisan attitude which we should all of course adopt on anything to assist the export of Australian goods and services. We on this side of the House are proud of the record of the Government in export and export consciousness. I am particularly pleased to be following the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Aldred)  as a  speaker  on the Government side. Incidentally, the honourable member's speech on this matter was one of the best back bench speeches that I have heard in this chamber for many months. Of course the honourable member is the  Chairman  of the Trade Sub-committee of the Government Members Trade and Resources Committee. I am pleased to share some of the work on that subcommittee. 
I agree that he knows what he is talking about because, like myself, the honourable member for Henty has spent some time working in the Government service in an area that deals with this Bill. During my six years in the Department of Trade and Industry where I learnt a little about what it means to serve one's country in a non-partisan way, I learnt that the export of Australian goods overseas is an absolute cornerstone of this nation's prosperity and future. I suggest that members opposite should look at the Department of Trade and Resources as a very effective department and not complain that certain legislation is not coming through as quickly as they would like or in the order that they would like. That department is hard pressed with the enormous amount of work that it is doing at the moment. Of course, under the staff ceiling provisions that are applying in the Australian Capital Territory and elsewhere, the department is having difficulties. 
I would also like to put on record, speaking on the matter of export, how appreciative the Government is of the work which is done by officers of the Department of Trade and Resources. In passing I would like to note that some of the most senior public servants in Canberra at this time were trained in the Department of Trade and Industry, as it then was, under the tutelage of  Sir Alan  Westerman and of course  Sir John  McEwen who was the then Leader of the Country Party. When one thinks of other people such as  Sir Alan  Carmody,  Mr Currie, Mr Scully  and  Mr Wood  one realises that that department has given a lot to the Australian people. 
Going back to the past, I would just like to run through some matters with which I had some connection when I was in the department in 1968, which is exactly ten years ago. I suppose the experience that I had then proves that really nothing changes in the world. In 1968, the then  Chairman  of the Export Development Council,  Sir Charles  McGrath, in commenting upon the need to export, said: 
Australia's growth in the 'seventies will rest substantially on our collective ability as a nation to marshal our resources and sell goods and services overseas sufficient to buy from other countries the goods and services we are unable to provide ourselves. 
Top management in Australian industry, both primary and manufacturing, will need to accept a very determined and sustained commitment to the development of export income earning activities, if we are to build an economically strong nation. 
A continuing high rate of growth will assure a future for our young and expanding population and is a national responsibility. It cannot be discharged lightly and will require all our resources, ability, expertise and skill as a nation in producing and selling our exports abroad. 
Nothing seems to have changed. Export is still a corner-stone of this nation, a corner-stone of its trade. The only thing that seems to have changed enormously over the last 10 years has been cost: A crippling cost explosion in manufacturing industry, has wiped out our ability in certain areas to export. I cannot but comment as to why we have lost the ability to export manufactured goods. The reason was the explosively high inflation which took place under the previous Labor administration. We saw our markets being wiped out and our exporters, who had put years and years of hard work into developing them, become absolutely frustrated as they realised that they could not compete in regard to cost. 
When people from the opposite side of the chamber ask what this Government is doing about exporting and improving our balance of payments situation, the real answer to be given is that it has a conscious policy of reducing costs, interest rates and inflation so that, as manufacturing, primary industry and the production of minerals go forward we can once again compete in world markets. There is no doubt that if the 20-plus per cent rate of inflation that existed in 1 975 had continued we would have found it very difficult, without massive devaluation, to export anything at all. The policy of the Government has been to help exporters get back into export markets both through the tangible assistance that is being provided in the Bills before us and through its general economic thrust. It is also, by its very positive economic policies, encouraging capital inflow. 
To return to 1968, one of the most interesting, things of note was that the aim of National Export Week, which was promoted by the Export Development Council and organised by Arch White, a member of the Council, who worked tirelessly over a nine-month period, was the doubling of Australia's exports within 10 years. In 1967-68 Australia exported $3,000m worth of goods and services. It is interesting to note that in the most recent financial year, 1977-78, Australia's exports totalled more than $ 1 1,000m. I realise that a good proportion of the difference in the amount, which in 10 years has almost quadrupled, is attributable to inflation, but in 1968, when the Export Development Council said, 'We are going to make the theme of the National Export Week the doubling of our exports in the next 10 years', there were in Australia many Jeremiahs who said: 'That is nonsense; you cannot achieve it'; but it has been achieved. 
There is much to be learnt from that- that even with our high costs of production we should today be able to go into the export markets of the world, develop our trade, widen our industrial base and, by promoting exports, both increase our standard of living and help increase that of other countries. 
In the 1960s it was fashionable to talk about export action. Most of the firms one saw as one went around Australia had export symbols on the wall of the plant. They had export managers, and the regional offices of the Department of Trade and Industry were very active. They were at the forefront of Government activity within the manufacturing and business sector. They were welcome public servants- unlike so many who go into industry now and are told, 'Look government, keep your big fingers out; we can operate without you' In the 1960's the Department of Trade and Industry was very welcome. I am sure that it is still; that it would not be thrown out the door, but in those days it was usual to think: 'Export; we are a trading nation; we have to go out and trade. We have to sell our.products overseas'. There was a genuine consciousness, engendered by an active export action campaign abroad in the community. I believe that the policies of those times could be adopted as the policies of today. 
The belief of the Trade sub-committee of the Government members committee is that there is a need for a greater export consciousness. We were very pleased when the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  delivered his paper on export development initiatives. Since 1976 we had been saying that this would be good for Australia and very worth while for all in our manufacturing, primary and secondary industry areas. 
I do not think that is true. The Government is moving forward in a positive way in relation to export consciousness. If honourable members take the trouble to go into the community, into the wider world, and talk to the manufacturers, they will learn that manufacturers are again beginning to think 'export'. Honourable members must realise that in 1 974, 1975 and 1976 manufacturers could not think export' because they could not compete. That had been the result of the massive cost inflation that had been imposed upon them by a government that had allowed the local economy to get out of control and had followed that by giving manufacturing a swift kick in the guts by lowering tariffs, by 25 per cent. Who could have thought about exporting in those days, when companies were trying to survive? 
I repeat, as one travels around one sees that manufacturers are looking overseas, are trying to get exports going again; are begining to see Australia in the context of South East Asia, in the context- as the honourable member for Parramatta so rightly pointed out- of China, which represents an enormous market to our north. I would not want to detract from the good work that was done by  Mr Whitlam  in going to China and opening up that area, or the good commonsense of our leader, Prime Minister Fraser, in following that up. Many honourable members opposite thought that  Mr Fraser  would not wish to talk to the Chinese, that he was some form of terrible conservative wearing blinkers who would move away from that relationship. He did not do that. He went over there and surprised everyone. Now the Chinese are, of course,  Mr Fraser  's very good friends. 
-If they all bought anything at all it would be very useful. It would be even better if they bought a little bit of Swan lager, I would imagine. When we examine the Government's economic policy on exporting we derive hope for the future. One need have no doubt at all that in the coming years our export figures will improve. It would be as well for members of the Opposition to get nicely behind exporting, so that some of those very vibrant factories down in the electorate of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)-  where I was brought up- can participate. The honourable member for Gellibrand and I went to the same school- Hyde Street State School. We were both struggling working boys. 
As the honourable member for Diamond Valley has said, we have both come a long way. I believe that the doubling of exports in 10 years, as was aimed at by the Department of Trade and Industry through the Export Development Council in 1968, has been well and truly achieved and I hope that this Government, over the coming 12 months or so, will get down to the work of getting export consciousness going again right throughout the whole of the community so that we can aim at doubling exports again in the coming decade. 
I address my question to the Minister for Finance. Is the Minister aware that there is disquiet amongst Commonwealth public servants concerning refunds of superannuation surpluses? Has the Government made promises about such refunds? When will the refunds be made which would assist the depressed economy of the Australian Capital Territory? 
-Can the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs advise the House of the results of a meeting held between himself and the Australian Association for the Mentally Retarded Incorporated? Have any decisions been made as a result of that meeting regarding the employment of handicapped people in the Australian Public Service? 
-Tonight I raise an issue which has worried me for some time and that is the control of the prescribing of narcotic drugs in the Australian Capital Territory. Today I was telephoned by a chemist who gave me the following case history. This morning a young man came to him with a prescription for 50 methadone and 30 Mandrax tablets. The young person said that he had to have the tablets because he was going before the court at 10 a.m. on a driving charge and almost certainly would have to go to gaol. He had to have the tablets to take with him to gaol. The chemist decided to check out the situation. On inquiry he found that the young person had presented the following prescriptions in Canberra over the last couple of weeks: on 15 October, 50 methadone tablets; on 22 October, 25 methadone tablets; on 23 October, 25 methadone tablets; on 24 October, 30 methadone tablets; on 26 October, 50 methadone tablets; on 1 8 October, 25 Mandrax tablets; on 19 October, 25 Mandrax tablets; on 22 October, 12 Mandrax tablets; on 23 October, 13 Mandrax tablets; on 24 October, 20 Mandrax tablets; and on 26 October, 30 Mandrax tablets. I am also able to report that all the scrips were written by the same doctor, who presumably charged the Australian taxpayer the applicable consultation fee. 
On making further inquiries of the chemist I discovered that there are at least two doctors in Canberra who are known to be specialists in writing such prescriptions. Interestingly enough, one chemist who has a shop almost adjacent to the surgery of the doctor who wrote the prescriptions referred to earlier, is said to have sold between 20,000 and 30,000 such tablets over the last 12 months. 
I do not suggest that there is anything illegal in the writing of the prescriptions. I am advised that the laws covering such things are very lax in the Australian Capital Territory. However, it is hard to imagine that even in these days of permissiveness and understanding this situation is commendable. Obviously, if some chemists will not dispense on such prescriptions and many doctors will not prescribe, there is disquiet among the professionals. It is clear that drug addicts need to have certain tablets to assist them to get off hard drugs such as heroin. But this should be done in a controlled and regulated way, not by a doctor who seems to specialise in this service with the assistance of the friendly chemist next door. I appeal to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  to arrange quickly for the Poisons and Narcotics Drugs Ordinance to become law in the Australian Capital Territory so that the prescribing of drugs to people who are addicted can be regulated. I would be happy if the Minister would inform the House as soon as possible of the following: When will this ordinance come forward? Can any action be taken to dissuade doctors from acting in such a cavalier manner? What is the total consumption of methadone tablets in the Australian Capital Territory compared with other areas of Australia? Honourable members opposite have asked me to name the doctors and chemists concerned. I have thought deeply about that but it seems much more responsible simply to indicate that if I hear continuing rumours of this practice I shall take the opportunity to name them in the House. 
-On the last evening of the sitting of the Parliament two weeks ago I raised a matter during the adjournment debate which troubled me and a number of professional people in Canberra. Honourable members will remember that I noted the case of a doctor prescribing what appeared to be unduly large quantities of methadone and Mandrax tablets. My speech received considerable publicity in the Canberra media. I am glad that I raised the issue as it has brought to a concerned public's attention the current inadequacy of our approach to the problem. However, I am pleased to report that things are moving ahead quite well now. I hope my airing of the matter has assisted. 
Last night I was informed by the  Chairman  of the Capital Territory Health Commission, Russell Boardman, and the Minister for Health,  (Mr Hunt)  that the Commission has been monitoring the consumption of drugs in the Australian Capital Territory for some time. As far as possible, but hampered by existing laws, the Commission has taken action to prevent the abuse of drugs. For the last 12 months a specialist has been advising the Commission on the development of a drug referral program. The system I described in this House was in fact an attempt to meet the problem while a more controlled system was being developed. The Minister has assured me that before the end of this year the full program will be implemented and the current imperfect system replaced. The new program will be, firstly, the gazettal of a new poisonous and narcotic drugs ordinance which will give the Commission additional power to control the prescribing and consumption of drugs in the Australian Capital Territory. Specifically, doctors will not be able continually to prescribe drugs for regular drug takers for more than 2 months without reference to the Medical Officer of Health. Secondly, in support of that legislation the Commission will supplement its clinical counselling and support services. 
A newly appointed specialist will take up duty to lead a new clinical out-patient and in-patient service. Hospital beds will be made available to facilitate a properly controlled rapid drug withdrawal program. The current and recently introduced out-patient drug withdrawal program, in the course of which progressively smaller doses of specified drugs are provided for patients with proper identity control, will continue. Thirdly, the programs to provide continuing support and counselling services for either rapid withdrawal patients or out-patients will continue and be refined. Lastly, from early December this year the Commission will finance through ADPACT a self-care residential community centre in an old Canberra homestead. This community centre will operate on a selfcaring basis to fortify people who have successfully gone through withdrawal. One of the doctors I criticised in the House wrote to me as a result of the publicity which my; criticism gained. He said: 
I would like to convey that I am glad that the matter has come more to notice as this may help expedite the provision of a system for treatment of drug addiction here comparable to what pertains elsewhere. 
He went on to say: 
It was solely with the object of assisting some addicts that I undertook this type of treatment, in the absence of another realistic alternative. 
I hope that my raising the matter has added some impetus to the efforts of the Capital Territory Health Commission to provide, a realistic alternative. I will be most interested to see that the treatment facilities provided are open and attractive to the people concerned in the drug scene. There is plenty of evidence to suggest that a successful drug referral system needs a proper shop front operation rather than a clinical setting. Only time will tell, but I suspect that in addition to its current commendable proposals the Commission will need to provide more support to those people working out in the drug scene if young people are to be persuaded to attempt to kick the habit and not just use the system to pander to their addiction. I commend the Commission's response and I will watch the effectiveness of the campaign with interest. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1978: 
How many cancer sufferers received radiotherapy treatment in Sydney in 1977-78 due to the lack of a treatment centre in the Australian Capital Territory or southern New South Wales. 
What was the cost to the Capital Territory Health Commission for cancer sufferers being treated in Sydney during 1977-78. 
How many cancer sufferers did not receive radiotherapy treatment that was indicated due to the social disruption that would have been caused to them personally by having to travel to Sydney for treatment during 1 977-78. 
What would be the establishment cost of a radiotherapy treatment unit in Canberra. 
Are there any plans for ensuring that such a facility is provided in order to give cancer sufferers ready access to a most needed medical service. 
-I seek leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the inquiry of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory into planning procedures and processes in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Leave granted. 
I inform the House that whilst the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory had hoped to present its report on planning procedures and processes before the end of this year it will not be able to do so. The Committee believes it should await the outcome of the referendum on 25 November to determine the future governmental arrangements for the Territory. To have reported at this stage on the basis of the present situation might have been seen as acceptance of the status quo and thus as prejudicing the outcome. To report in a way which took into account all three referendum options would have been far too complex a task with much of the effort irrelevant after 25 November. 
The Committee simply has not had time even to attempt such an effort. As the Parliament will rise before the referendum results can be assessed and before the precise form of future government for the Australian Capital Territory is known, the Committee has decided not to table the report until the Parliament resumes in February 1979. Whilst these conditions have caused the Committee to delay presentation of the report, opportunity will be taken to examine further issues such as the means of public participation and procedures for appeals against planning decisions. These and other fundamental issues involved in the inquiry then will be related specifically to the outcome of the referendum and to the consequent decisions announced by the Government. The Committee will thus be able to make recommendations directly relevant to the future constitutional status of the Capital Territory. 
I direct a question to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service matters. He will be aware that school leavers will be coming onto the labour market over the next two months. Will the Government consider opening up job opportunities for young people as well as widening job opportunities generally by reintroducing legislation to provide for voluntary early retirement of Commonwealth government staff? 
-I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Yes. 
-On 22 January the  Canberra Times  printed a front page article headed 'Allegations upset Pine Lodge staff'. The article commenced: 
Female staff at Pine Lodge in Barton were extremely upset by allegations that the premises were a brothel, the owner of Pine Lodge,  Mr Stan  Biggs, told a public protest meeting today. 
The meeting was called by local residents to protest about noise and other problems they associate with Pine Lodge and to discuss redevelopment in Barton. It was attended by about 80 people, including the Member for Canberra,  Mr Haslem. 
I do not take issue with the text of the article, which is accurate and well written. However, I take exception to a photograph appearing with the article. The photo carries the wording: 'The Member for Canberra,  Mr Haslem,  left, and the owner of Pine Lodge,  Mr Stan  Biggs, at yesterday's meeting. ' The appearance conveyed by the photo is that  Mr Biggs  is standing beside me and whispering into my ear in a most conspiratorial manner. On visiting the  Canberra Times  photographic section I looked at all the photos taken at the protest meeting. It is quite obvious from such photos that I was not standing next to  Mr Biggs  or that he was whispering in my ear. He was, in fact, standing several feet behind me at the time, but the use of a telephoto lens and the particular way the photo was cropped leads to a misleading distortion. 
I am particularly upset at the wrong impression given to the people of Canberra by this photo.  Mr Bigg's  is facing very serious charges in relation to attempting to bribe a police officer and there is no doubt that prostitution and illegal gambling is taking place at Pine Lodge on a well organised basis. Rumours are rife in Canberra concerning the involvement of Sydney gangsters, stand-over tactics and graft. 
There is also a regrettable rumour being circulated in Canberra - 
May I table the article and the photographs concerned? 

 - Mr Speaker, that interjection reflects upon me. There is a rumour going around in Canberra that I have financial interests in Pine Lodge and I am trying to quash that rumour. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I deny the accuracy. 
-This evening I raise a problem which is facing the private sector in the Australian Capital Territory. As honourable members would know, the economy of the Australian Capital Territory is feeling very much the brunt of the Government's economic policy in relation to constraint on public expenditure. This, of course, has meant that the primary employment sector of our economy has remained stagnant and that the other two major employment sectors of our economy- the building industry and the service industries- have fallen. In the attempts of the people in Canberra to bolster the private sector, the availability of private investment funds has always been most important. Predominantly, Canberra has been built on finance company money which, as we know, is at fairly high interest rates at the moment. In a depressed economy those interest rates are acting as a positive disincentive towards investment. 
One of the largest investment funds in Australia takes a very large amount of money out of the Capital Territory's economy. I refer to the Superannuation Fund Investment Trust. Last year I asked for some figures from this Trust as to exactly what investments it had made in the 2-year period from 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1978. 1 was informed by the  Chairman  of the Trust that investments totalling $238m had been made around Australia. I asked the  Chairman  how many contributors there were to the Fund and he informed me that there were 245,000 contributors in Australia at 30 June 1978. No separate figures were available for the Capital Territory but, he said, if we take the number of full time employees under the Public Service Act we would find that in 1977 there were 33,787 full time employees and that in 1978 there were close enough to 5 3 ,600 contributors. 
I followed that up and asked what the contributions of all of those public servants in Canberra were to the Fund. I was informed that in the 2-year period from July 1976 to June 1978 contributions totalled $50m. That is a massive amount of money. It is a massive amount of money which appears to be going out of Canberra. I then asked how much of that money had been invested directly in the Capital Territory over that 2-year period. I was informed that $ 1.25m was the amount. So the Fund takes $50m-odd out of the Capital Territory and puts just over $lm back into it. At a time when the capital formation in a young territory such as the Australian Capital Territory is low, at a time when we need all of the money we can get at low interest rates to assist the private sector in Canberra, I think this action verges on a scandal. For the Trust to have the temerity to take $50m out of the Capital Territory and put only $1.25m back into it is a slight on the public servants, is a slight on the employment opportunities for our young people and is something that should stop immediately. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I am certainly very pleased to have the opportunity tonight to lead for the Government in this debate on the Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Amendment Bill. Honourable members will be aware that the objective of this Bill is to bring the payroll tax scheme applicable in the Australian 
Capital Territory into line with that which operates in New South Wales. The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  who I am always very pleased to follow in a debate, has concentrated on the woes of Canberra. I point out to the House and to his constituents who are listening to the debate that his electorate has prospered in the last three years. When I was elected as the member for Canberra there were shortages all over Canberra. None of these shortages were more apparent than in Belconnen and the north of Canberra. 
I presume that tomorrow the honourable member for Fraser will go to the opening of a beautiful hospital, a hospital which is not needed in Canberra, a hospital which cost the taxpayers of Australia many tens of millions of dollars. He has a shopping centre in his electorate which is boasted about around Australia as the most modern shopping centre in the southern hemisphere. It really is the most modern shopping centre in the southern hemisphere. In fact, it is so beautiful that I am sure people from Disneyland will buy cheap air tickets to come to see it. He has a fruit market in his electorate. Run down Government flats in his area have been upgraded. He has the best sports centres in Australia- a private enterprise one which opened a few weeks ago and the beautiful Bruce National Stadium. In other words, under the Government which he has just criticised, his electorate- a wilderness- has been turned into a garden. 
This Bill will enact legislation to assist the small businessman. It does so by increasing the exemption from payroll tax on annual payrolls from $60,000 to $66,000 in any one year. Above that annual figure, payroll tax is phased in so that there is no exemption when annual payrolls reach $165,000 a year. It goes without saying that the Government wishes to assist small businesses. Small businesses are the staff of life in Australia and the staff of life of our free enterprise system. In the national capital the vast bulk of employers in the private sector are small businesses. We do not have many large businesses in the Capital Territory. We have some large interstate firms such as Woolworths Ltd, G. J. Coles and Co. Ltd, David Jones (Canberra) Pty Ltd and Myer Canberra, but predominantly the employers of people in Canberra are small businessmen. 
It would be less than frank of me tonight to suggest that I am completely happy with this Bill. I am in fact quite upset that it has taken so long to be introduced. Delays in getting this relatively simple piece of legislation into the House have meant that it now has to be administered in a quite clumsy manner. The new exemption dates back to 1 January of this year but returns will need to be lodged on the old basis for the rest of this financial year with a refund being made at the end of the financial year. As the honourable member for Fraser pointed out quite correctly, things are not good for small businessmen in the national capital. Why should small businessmen be giving the Government an interest free loan for the next four or five months of this year. It will be very interesting to see how quickly refund cheques flow out at the end of the financial year. I hope that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  will give an undertaking that a much speedier mechanism will be developed so that when New South Wales introduces exemptions in its payroll tax, exemptions which we must match, we will be able to fall into line more quickly than has happened on this occasion. 
I would like to take the opportunity tonight to discuss the matter of small business in the Capital Territory. As honourable members would know the major employment sectors in the Australian Capital Territory are the Public Service, the building and construction industries and the service industries related to retailing and tourism. We do not have many farmers or many miners and hardly any manufacturers other that those related to the building industry. Any analysis of the economy of the Australian Capital Terrritory leads to the conclusion that it is far from doing well. At first glance this would surprise many people. There is no doubt at all that Canberra is an area of very high savings, an area of the highest average earnings in the nation, an area of a high standard of education, beautiful and expensive community facilities, beautiful natural resources and apparent prosperity. That applies for a good proportion of our population. However, the casual observer should realise that something very significant has happened to the economic structure of this city. The change is necessary and will we hope be good for us all in the long run. However it is a very painful experience for a significant number of people at this time. 
The Capital Territory went through the 1950s, the 1 960s and the early 1 970s with a fairly steady and high rate of growth. During the period of office of the Labor Government, we had a disruptive boom and then a bust with the Hayden Budget in 1975. Growth plunged from an overheated 10 per cent with inflation running at close to 20 per cent with the cost of a family home- the honourable member for Wills  (Mr 
Bryant) as a former Minister would know thisjumping from approximately $16,000 to over $30,000 in three short years. There were shortages of building materials, shortages of land, schools and shops; in fact there was a shortage of everything. Putting it rather crudely it was a period of monumental cock-up. Fortunately the people of Canberra recognised this and decided to change the Government. Also fortunately for me they elected a new member for the electorate of Canberra. 
Now that I have been in this place for over three years, my political opponents have decided that they had better do some work to get rid of me and win back the seat of Canberra. So last weekend the campaign started with a particularly puerile pamphlet blaming me for all the ills that they see in the present Government. However, let me say as a member of the national Parliament, speaking tonight to the wider world and not just to my myopic Labor opponents in Canberra, that I would like to analyse just what has happened in the national capital over the last four years. I say four years because it is necessary to go back to the Hayden Budget of 1975 which recognised the havoc and the economic vandalism that the Whitlam years had wrought on Canberra. The 1975 Labor Budget decided to cut Canberra back to size. However in the judgment of the new Government, it did not go quite far enough in getting the uncontrolled growth of the Public Service in hand. Here lies the nub of our present problems in the national capital. As I speak to a wider audience than just my constituents tonight, I repeat by way of explanation that Canberra does have problems. They may be inevitable; they may be problems that we would have had to face no matter which party was in power but for a good percentage of people in Canberra they are most serious problems. 
One major criticism of Canberra by the rest of the people of Australia is that it is remote, that our very dedicated public servants are just a little removed from the real life of the slums, smoke and soot of our great cities, such as Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong and perhaps also the area from which the honourable member for Wills comes. I will never forget, before coming into Parliament, that I had occasion to make representations to him in his office in Electricity House when he was Minister for the Capital Territory. He taught me a great lesson on that day. He took me to the window and said: 'What are all you people from Canberra complaining about? Just look out there. Oh, I wish that that was my electorate.' That statement is still true. Most of us recognise that we in Canberra are people and I hope that the rest of Australia realises that we have families and that we aspire to improve our own lot in life but more importantly that the people of the national capital aspire to improve the way of life of all Australians. 
In November 1975 88,000 people were employed in Canberra. In November 1978 only 86,800 were employed, that is, a reduction of 1,200. We must add to that 10,000 people who were not in work. 'Hurrah', say the people of Australia. 'There are fewer public servants to support with our taxes. ' But this is not the case. Certainly the growth in the Public Service is well under control. One has only to ask any Public Service union representative or the honourable member for Fraser or any other member of the Labor Party. We have repressive staff ceilings. To them, we in the Fraser Government are crude and repressive. However, the fact is that, whereas Public Service employment declined in 1976 and 1977, it is now back to slightly more than the level of 1975 at 54,600. But what of private enterprise in the national capital? What of the people whom this Government is supposed to support? In November 1975, the private sector employed 33,900 people. Now it employs only 32,100. That is a decline of 1,800 in the private sector. For those people who support a more realistic Canberra, this must be a disaster. We need a strong and viable private sector in Canberra to leaven the bread of a bureaucratic capital. It is necessary when we have a slower growth rate that the building industry should decline, just as it is necessary and inevitable that employment in the Pilbara should contract in the construction industry when the railroads have been constructed, the mines developed and the ports built. 
However, there are special reasons to encourage an increase in employment in the private sector in the national capital. Firstly, it has a very young population. It has one of the youngest populations in Australia and that young population is very highly educated. It has the best education system in Australia and probably one of the best in the world. It has an enormous investment in its young people. Anyone in Canberra, whether he comes from this city or other parts of Australia does not want it just to be a company town. We in Canberra need diversification and sophistication in our city to encourage realistic attitudes from our own bureaucracy. We have, as the honourable member for Fraser pointed out, Australia's highest unemployment rate. This would be surprising to many people around Australia and around this House. There are almost 10,000 people looking for jobs in Canberra as we stand in this national Parliament tonight. That is not a large number compared with the rest of Australia, but in a city which is supposed to be a monument to Australia's achievements that is a very serious and depressing number. 
It is necessary that adjustments and shake-outs have to take place. Growth is slow, but it has now stabilised. We have many extra facilities in Canberra now, compared with 1975. Our schools have caught up with the needs of students. We now have hospitals which are in excess of supply. There are schools. There are houses. There are parks. There are gardens. There are super highways. People have criticised the Government for allowing facilities to go beyond Canberra's needs. In fact, the honourable member for Fraser has been quietly critical of some of the facets of the Administration- the Government which I represent. 
When one talks to the people of Belconnen, the housewife in Tuggeranong or the school teacher in Weston, one finds that none of those people would agree that the facilities that have been constructed under sound administration are not appreciated. The real casualties of the stabilisation of growth in Canberra have been the people in the public sector. This is a double tragedy because the people who show enterprise in our society are being affected and a wider economic base is being denied to the national capital. The real question that faces us now is this: How do we get over this? Can we as a government do something to revitalise the private sector of Canberra to give the national capital more balance. 
I am pleased that this evening the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott),  who is widely respected I think in both the Government and the Opposition as a man of principle and integrity, is here to hear my few words. I have spoken with him on many occasions late at night about what we can do. We face the inevitability of government policy, which I support; a policy which will make inflation come down, which in the long run will improve the lot of the unemployed, which will make Australia a stable and vibrant country. But the real problem in Canberra is this: How do we diversify our society and employment opportunities? I think the Minister has put his finger right on the spot on a number of occasions. He looks towards pragmatic development in Canberra. 
There are two areas in which we can do something that the rest of Australia will appreciate, and from which the people of Canberra will also benefit. The areas are tourism and sport. We already have a strong tourist industry in Canberra, but few people realise that if we could get each of the tourists who come to Canberra to stay one extra day it could mean as much as $60m a year to Canberra 's economy. So, it is very necessary for Canberra as the national capital to become an important tourist centre. Its people must have the spirit of enterprise which we are trying to achieve in Australia. There must be the spirit to develop facilities for people to come to Canberra to make them proud of this nation. Whether we have a Labor government or a Liberal government this should be the focus of the aspirations of our society. It should be the focus of the aspirations of all those people who want to make a better life for those whom we bring up- our children. After all, that is what most people are on about. 
The second area is sport. Why should the national capital not be the sports centre for the nation? Why should we not have an international rowing course on Lake Burley Griffin, where oarsmen can come from all over Australia and perhaps from all over the world to compete on a neutral course? Why should we not have an international tennis centre? Why should we not develop our quite expensive Bruce Stadium into a centre where our young athletes can train before they go overseas for international competitions? Why should we not make this a place where our young people can compete, strive and achieve for international recognition in sporting areas? To put it in one phrase, things is crook in Canberra. But we shall put a great deal of thought into the future. We have confidence that Canberra will become Australia's great capital. With the honourable member for Fraser and I continuing to be the local members for a long while to come- the people of Australia can see that both the Labor Party and the Liberal Party are represented in the national capital- we will have a very strong and vibrant capital. It will be a multi-cultural capital. It will be a sporting capital. It will be a tourist capital. It will be a capital for bureaucracy and of course a nice place for my fellow members of Parliament to come to for three days a week every now and again. 
I address my question to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. He will be aware that staff ceilings necessarily dictated by the Government's economic policy have limited employment opportunities in the Commonwealth Public Service, particularly in Canberra. Can the Minister indicate what stage the redrafting of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill has reached? Can he indicate also whether submissions made by Public Service unions in relation to the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act are being considered by the Government? 
by leave- I join with the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  in commending the report to the Parliament. As one of the dissenters on the peninsular area, I should explain to the House that it was my opinion and the opinion of the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean),  that that particular peninsular area should not at this stage be completely used for recreational purposes. We were not happy with the information that was provided to us by the National Capital Development Commission, and we wished to leave the door open for the NCDC to bring further information to the Committee at a future date. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of protracted industrial trouble which has plagued the construction sites of two national buildings in Canberra, namely, the High Court of Australia and the National Gallery. Might I say that these disputes were contrived to pave the way for the local Builders Labourers Federation organiser to enter the big time in Victoria. 
I ask the Minister for the Capital Territory: Has his attention been drawn to an advertisement on page 10 of today's  Canberra Times  which asserts that there is a dangerous confrontation between small shop owners and landlords in the Australian Capital Territory, and which calls for a public inquiry into the administration of the Canberra Commercial Development Authority? Can the Minister inform the House of any such public inquiry? Can he indicate whether any action is contemplated on the need for a business leases review ordinance in the Capital Territory to assist small businessmen? 
It is really a great pity that tonight's debate is not being broadcast because I believe that the people of Norfolk Island, who use the broadcasts of their local proceedings to inform themselves, would have gained a lot from the speech of the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  Of course, if there were a change of government, he would be the Minister in charge of Norfolk Island. I think that those people from Norfolk Island who are in the House tonight will report upon that prospect in singularly clear terms. 
It was interesting to hear the honourable member for Melbourne claim that the apparent problems facing Norfolk Island and its people at  the moment are of the Government's making. I wish to quote from the February 1978 report of the United Nations Association of Australia which dealt with the controversy that had arisen as a result of the report of  Sir John  Nimmo 's Royal Commission into Matters Relating to Norfolk Island. At page 4 of the report, it is stated: 
The current state of conflict had its genesis in the decision of the Whitlam administration in 1975 to give  Sir John  Nimmo a Royal commission to recommend on the future status of Norfolk Island and its constitutional relationship with Australia and on other associated matters. 
Since the Royal Commission's report was presented in 1976, there has been a considerable amount of alarm from the people of Norfolk Island. One of the great causes for alarm which came through strongly to those of us who showed an interest in the island as a result of that report was that the island was going to become too closely integrated with Australia. That is really what was coming through. There has been some suggestion that the Norfolk Islanders wanted Norfolk Island to become independent of Australia, but I think that it is not misrepresenting the situation to say that that was fairly much a minority view. Yet tonight the Australian Labor Party is attempting to guarantee to the people of Norfolk Island that they will get exactly what they do not want. 
Yes, I have been across to the island. I am not sure whether the honourable member has been there. 
-While I was on the island, I did not speak with Councillor Mclntyre. In fact, I did not meet him until he came to Canberra. The First Schedule to the Bill defines the Territory of Norfolk Island as follows: 
Norfolk Island and all other islands and rocks lying within the area bounded by the parallels 28 degrees 59 minutes and 29 degrees 9 minutes south latitude and the meridians 1 67 degrees 54 minutes and 168 degrees east longitude. 
What does that mean to the people who live there and to the people of Australia? We are talking about a non-self-governing colony of Australia comprising some 1,600 people permanently resident on 3,500 hectares in a delightful location in the southern Pacific, approximately 1,400 kilometres east of the Australian mainland. It is a beautiful island for those people who have gone there, a tranquil island, an island of peace, an island that has not been disturbed by those things that are worrying Australia at the moment. They do not have Transport Workers' Union strikes there. The people get on with the business of earning a living for themselves and their families. They get on with looking after the 20,000-odd tourists who go there every year. They do not back-bite one another. They do not spend all their time trying to make quick political points. They get on with looking after their own. It is an island of incredible history, and I am very pleased to see that in the amendment the Minister moved tonight the unusual step has been taken of including very long recitals in the Bill. 
-Yes, I think that that is probably right. There are three pages of recitals setting out the history, and I will pick out just a few of them. The fourth recital states: 
AND WHEREAS on 8 June 1856 persons who had previously inhabited Pitcairn Island settled on Norfolk Island: 
That is what it is all about on Norfolk Island. It is an unique area settled by people with a history going right back to the beginning of the white man's interest in the South Pacific. The people when one meets them have a quite different characteristic in the way that they look at life from that of many of us in Australia. One of the things that had to happen when the Government approached the Nimmo report was that it had to find a fine balance between its responsibilities to Australia and to a colony and its responsibility to people who are not articulate, who are not used to the sorts of things that unfortunately we have to get used to in this place. They are people who in many ways have found such an ideal life that it is very hard for others to get permission to live on Norfolk Island. We even have the spectacle of people wanting to work on Norfolk Island at the wage rates indicated by the honourable member for Melbourne. I am sure that, if any of the people at the Hibiscus Hotel really felt like going home because they were not being paid enough, there would be a queue of ten people waiting to take their jobs. It is not only the industrial conditions that honourable members opposite push down the throats of the people of Australia that make a good society. There is a good society on Norfolk Island, no matter what is said in this place by people who are hung upon doctrinaire matters. The final recitals in themselves are very interesting. They state: 
AND WHEREAS Norfolk Island has been governed by the Commonwealth initially under the provisions ofthe  Norfolk Island Aci  1913, and subsequently under the provisions ofthe  Norfolk Island Act  1 957: 
AND WHEREAS the residents of Norfolk Island include descendants ofthe settlers from Pitcairn Island: 
AND WHEREAS the Parliament recognises the special relationship of the said descendants with Norfolk Island and their desire to preserve their traditions and culture: 
What will happen if the Labor Party's propositions become the laws on Norfolk Island? How will those connections and traditions and cultures, which are quite different from Australia 's be preserved? The Opposition waxes long in this place about what people are doing to our Aboriginals. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  gives very interesting speeches on that subject and is knowledgeable about it. But at the same time members of the Opposition say those things in this House they want to go across to Norfolk Island and impose on the residents what is the equivalent of the white man 's rule. I am not suggesting that there is anything racist in that attitude, but I am making an analogy with our Aboriginal problem. The recital goes on: 
And whereas the Parliament considers it to be desirable and to be the wish of the people of Norfolk Island that Norfold Island achieve, over a period of time, internal selfgovernment as a Territory under the authority of the Commonwealth and, to that end, to provide, among other things, for the establishment of a representative Legislative Assembly and of other separate political and administrative institutions on Norfolk Island: 
The main Bill we are discussing tonight is one of the landmarks of Australian history. The settlement of Norfolk Island goes right back to our very beginning. When the ships of the First Fleet finished at Sydney Cove they went across to Norfolk Island. We are talking about an area of only 3,500 hectares, with a small population, but those people who have gone there just walk on to that island and feel they are walking back into Australia's history. I am saying that as an Australian. I am sure the people of Pitcairn Island think of it in terms of their history. Perhaps the Polynesian people who went there have other feelings towards it. But for an Australian there is a special feeling, a special relationship with the island and with the old convict settlement on the island. Without wishing to sound paternalistic, I think there is a whole group of reasons why we should deal with this fragile island and its fragile culture in a very special way. To develop politically doctrinaire ideas on Governors-General, Executive Councils, who should call elections and things like that seems to me to be quite insensitive to the work that is being done in Norfolk Island by the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  and by the Council itself. 
The Bills that are before the House tonight are the result of an enormous amount of work by bureaucrats in Canberra and on the island, by the current Minister, who is a very sensitive man, by the councillors of the island and by the people of the island who have let their views be known right across Australia. They have had pressure campaigns, they have lobbied and they have had public relations consultants employed at their own cost to try to get the story over. We hear complaints about the amendments that have been foreshadowed tonight. The honourable member for Melbourne bellyached about there being 1 1 7 amendments, but when we look at the actual document we see that a very good proportion of those amendments- I think almost 100 of them- are in effect simply acceding to a request from the Norfolk Island Council that its legislation not be known as an ordinance but as something which it will choose. Therefore we are using a much better word in the Bill- the word enactment'. We cannot really take too much notice of the claims by members of the Opposition that massive last minute changes have been made in this Bill which muddy the water. In fact, the massive changes which have been made emanate from the Opposition itself. The foreshadowed amendments that we received from the Opposition before this debate began have apparently disappeared somewhere and it has a whole new group of amendments which are a mishmash of vague generalisations about what the Opposition wants to do. 
Quickly running through the main parts of the legislation, I would like firstly to remind the House that this landmark legislation has been laying on the table of the House since last year to give people an opportunity to discuss it, to give the Minister a chance to go across to the island on a number of occasions and to give the councillors a chance to come over here to thrash out the matter, to explain and to try to come to some compromise. It is a piece of legislation which is fairly much in the form of what we would expect when we are progressing a Territory with a colonial status to a Territory with a self-governing status. It provides that the Australian taxation and social service benefits should not be extended to the island. That is a provision with which of course the Opposition would not agree. The Opposition would bring the island under our taxation umbrella and would extend the social services of Australia to the island. There is a system of social service benefits applying in the island at present. Although there has been some criticism of that system- I think the Government hopes that in some areas it will be beefed up a little- generally, the paternalistic views and customs of the people of the island to look after residents of the island according to their needs have been quite successful. 
The legislation does not foreshadow that the people of Norfolk Island be brought into the 
Australian political scene. There are to be no immediate steps to include Norfolk Island in an electorate of this Parliament. I must be very honest and say that the Nimmo committee report did suggest that Norfolk Island become part of the electorate of Canberra. It is with some regret that I report that the Minister has not been able to accede to my smiling request that perhaps in some ways that may have been a good idea for me because I could have spent some time going across to this very beautiful island and acquainting myself even further with it. I have said in this House that I think it would be a complete disaster for the island to become part of the Australian political scene and I stand by that statement, as much as I would like personally to represent the island and its people. I think I have a little more feeling for it than has been displayed tonight by members of the Opposition. 
Part II of the Bill covers administration and such matters as the establishment of the body politic; Part III deals with the executive council; Part IV deals with the legislation-making processes; Part V sets out the provisions relating to the legislative assembly; and Part VI deals with finances and public accounts. Part VII goes on to provide for a judicial system and Part VIII ensures the continuation of the present law regarding employment and appointment of officers, et cetera. Transitional provisions are set out in Part IX of the Bill. I think we will see this Bill pass this House tonight and history will be made. The island itself has always had a troubled dealing with its colonial masters.if that is the way it should be put. On reading its history, I think that is the way it should be and I hope that that is the way it has been put until now. The island has been dealt with in many ways as a colony, even during this century. It will move into a situation of having a lot of say in its own affairs and feeling that its destiny is now being decided much more at home than in distant Canberra. I should think that on Bounty Day this year there will be a celebration second to none. 
I refer the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs to his Press release of 30 April in which he announced the composition of the National Youth Advisory Group. Is the Minister aware that in that 1 2-member group all States and Territories, except the Australian Capital Territory, are represented? Can the Minister indicate to the House what particular qualities those members, in particular the five members from Victoria, have and the youth of the Australian Capital Territory do not have, other than the fact that the  Chairman  is a former State  President  of the Young Liberal Movement and a Queen's Scout? 
-On the 25th November, 1978, the people of the Australian Capital Territory voted overwhelmingly for there to be no change in the form of local government for the Territory. They spoke in a thundering voice to say that they did not want a locally elected legislative body to order the affairs of the national capital. They said they wanted to continue to be administered by the bureaucracy through the national Parliament and the Executive arm of the national Parliament with advice from a locally elected advisory body. Next Saturday we have an election in Canberra for the House of Assembly. The elected representatives and advisory body are to assist the Minister for the Capital Territory to administer this city of some 220,000 people. As the member for Canberra, I feel it is important at this time, and in this grievance debate, to encourage the Government to adopt policies to make the Cabinet more responsive to the needs of this national capital. 
Successive governments through the 1960s and 1970s have shown that the rest of Australia has no special love for the people of Canberra. There has traditionally been a boom-slump syndrome imposed by the sensitivity of the Australian Capital Territory economy to Commonwealth Government marcoeconomic policies and philosophical differences between centralism, big and small government, interventionist policies and social engineering. It is a widely held view that now is the time for the Federal Government to accept the responsiblities inherent in a request from the local residents that it run the Capital Territory taking into account the needs of the 220,000 local residents rather than the prejudice of the people outside this city. Presumably the Federal Government, in agreeing to a referendum on self-government, knew that there was a possibility that people would vote for no change in administrative responsibility. The Government has accepted the people's decision and concomitantly the responsibility to manage Canberra efficiently. It must now put its mind to ensuring the Territory runs smoothly. It is my firmly held view, as a resident of Canberra for over 15 years, and as one who had raised a family here, worked in the Public Service and also in private enterprise, that the administration of Canberra is far to unco-ordinated. We have numerous government departments with very real and important responsibilities for the day to day running of a Territory which will very soon be half the population of Tasmania. Most do their jobs well, but must battle for resources within their department's nationwide responsibilities. In many cases there are frustrating conflicts with other departments, jealousies, power plays and unfortunately sometimes inefficiencies. 
There appears to be absoultely no overview of the Australian Capital Territory economy for forward planning in other than the bricks and mortar sense. The total Budget allocation for the Territory has only recently been brought together on Budget night in a uniform, if somewhat confused, statement on the expenditure of the Department of the Capital Territory, the National Capital Development Commission, the Department of Education and the Department of Health. This happened only after the most strenuous lobbying by  Senator John  Knight and myself. I am informed that there is no overview of the Australian Capital Territory economy by economic experts, there is not Cabinet sub-  committee of responsible Ministers and there is no standing interdepartmental committee. In other words Canberra has just grown like Topsy, in the administrative sense. This situation is frustrating for people trying to deal with Government, frustrating for people within Government, administratively inefficient and I suspect contributes to the high cost of living in Canberra. 
What then is the suggested remedy? The first priority is that the Government establish a Cabinet sub-committee of Ministers with direct responsibility for the State-like and local government-like services within the Territory. Membership of such a committee would have to include the Ministers for the Capital Territory, Health  (Mr Hunt),  Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom),  the Minister responsible for the Public Service, and Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson),  the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay),  and the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack).  Such a subcommittee would have the responsibility of establishing a State-like budget strategy for the Capital Territory and co-ordinating expenditure to ensure the best application of resources and most effective delivery of services. It would not have to meet often but it would in effect act as Cabinet would do in a State. It would provide that important second tier of government that we lack in Canberra. 
To assist its deliberation and to develop overall policy for the Capital Territory it would be necessary to establish a small policy secretariat with representatives of various departments but which would need to be separated from any one of the interested departments to avoid any challenge of self-interest or special pleading on behalf of a particular department. Staff would be rotated through it on a two or three year secondment. Economic skills would be most important as a priority task and it would be necessary to develop medium to long term policies to break the boom bust syndrome of this city. 
Having co-ordinated administration and planning overview the next step would be to set guidelines on how the Government wishes the city of Canberra to develop. A first priority would be to diversify the employment base of what it recognised and criticised by many as a company town. For the sake of our young and for the sake of the whole nation we need a wider frame of reference for those people who administer this country. We should therefore set a goal to reduce the proportion of people employed in the Public Service to 50 per cent over the next ten years. The current percentage is between 60 and 70 per cent as our private sector withers. To do so we would have to establish a broadly based program to develop tertiary and manufacturing industries in Canberra. This would be done by encouraging the development of tourism and technologically based industry. A pre-requisite of this would be the establishment of a revamped tourist promotion board with generous promotional guidelines. We would also need an industrial promotion organisation made up of the private sector, unions and government with a charter to develop and offer incentives to enhance some natural advantages enjoyed by Canberra. A series of tri-yearly rolling programs would need to be developed to ensure the community could plan ahead. This would cover such areas as welfare, culture and sporting grants, civil works programs and growth of the Public Service to include the defence services. 
Of immediate priority are: 
A commitment to maintain at least a 3 per cent growth rate for the city over the next 10 years. 
An announcement of Government assistance to build a large high security international convention centre. 
An urgent upgrading of Canberra Airport Terminal facilities and the ensuring that runways can cope with international charter flights. 
A commitment to commence construction of the National Museum no later than 1988, when the new national Parliament project will be completed. 
Improvement of road and rail access to Canberra from both Sydney and Melbourne. 
A decision to proceed with the Casey Defence Forces Academy and the National Biological Standards Laboratory. 
Extension of representation in other capital cities of our Tourist Bureau. 
Development of a full range of incentives to locate high technology industry in the Australian Capital Territory; and the promotion of Canberra as an ideal city in which to retire with its numerous health and community services, dry, clean climate and high standard of living. 
In summary, there is a need for national governments of whatever politicial persuasion to administer Canberra as a city in its own right rather than use it as the whipping boy for interstate prejudice and jealousies. Only positive and well managed forward programs will convince the people of Canberra that there has been a fundamental re-appraisal of Canberra's role. 
Is the Minister for Defence aware of the importance of the Casey Australian Defence Force Academy project to the economy of the Australian Capital Territory in relation to both employment in the construction industry and the forward planning for transfer of Government employed people to this city? Can a government decision on the future of the Academy be made as a matter of urgency? 
It is always a great privilege to follow the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  in a debate. Tonight he said that certain people should not be required to retire at a particular age. I would agree with him. In many countries of the world people would not become members of parliament before reaching the age of maturity and having the experience of the honourable member for Wills. In fact, I am rather surprised that the Opposition keeps him on the back benches. With the wealth of experience he has in the Australian Capital Territory and the contribution he could make to debates about it, I am sure he would make a very good shadow Minister for the Capital Territory. 
The matters we are discussing tonight are procedural. They concern the change in status of the Australian Capital Territory House of Assembly, which was formerly the Legislative Assembly. Democracy dictates that people have a choice about how they shall be governed and how they shall order their affairs. The referendum in the Australian Capital Territory last year determined that we would not have self-government in the way in which most members of parliament would expect and for which most members of parliament would expect people to call. Therefore, the Australian Capital Territory has a House of Assembly, which I believe has probably put back the democratic process locally by a number of years. Be that as it may, the people of Canberra voted massively against any change in the administrative arrangements for this city. 
I think that the most significant thing that has happened to Canberra following the election of a new House of Assembly has been the announcement that the financial affairs of the Capital Territory are to be examined by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  announced outside this chamber last night that the legislation will be changed to allow the finances of the Capital Territory to be examined by the Grants Commission. This is something which has been sought over many years by a number of people in the Capital Territory. I think that those of us who are interested in Canberra, such as the honourable member for Wills, will keenly seek the result of that announcement. There are many people round Australia who continually claim that the Capital Territory is looked after too well, that the 215,000 Australians who live in this place are some sort of parasite on the body of the nation. It may well be that the Grants Commission will find that the Capital Territory is a dependent area, perhaps like Tasmania. I only wish that we were as dependent as Tasmania as we probably would have had an announcement in the Budget last night about the building of a third bridge across Lake Burley Griffin if we were. Unfortunately, we are seen as the pampered area of Australia. That makes our task, at a time when governments are being very circumspect in spending taxpayers' money, all the more difficult. 
As we are considering a Bill in relation to the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority, it might be relevant to pose a few questions in relation to the functions of that Authority and perhaps to suggest, by means of this debate, to the House of Assembly's representative on that Authority that we should be doing more in the Territory in the area of energy conservation. Canberra is the largest inland city in Australia. It is situated at an elevation of between 2,000 and 2,500 feet. For the information of those honourable members who come from warmer areas of Australia I point out that it is a very cold city at this time of" the year. Those of us who follow world events realise that the energy crisis which is facing the world and which has necessitated increasing the cost of petroleum products in Australia is putting a considerable burden on the people of Canberra who rely on petroleum products for heat at this time of the year. The Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority would do well to see what it can do to promote the use of electricity, solar power and alternative methods of heating in this capital city. I suggest that much more work should be done by the Electricity Authority in promoting alternative sources of energy and in pointing people towards the use of its product, which is electricty. 
We also have before us the Remuneration Tribunals Amendment Bill (No. 2). The amendments contained in that Bill relate to a change in the method of running the Capital Territory; in other words, the creation of the House of Assembly. I wish to mention a matter on behalf of the four Federal members of parliament representing the Capital Territory. We have two senators representing the Australian Capital Territory and two members of the House of Representatives representing the electorates of Fraser and Canberra. I represent the latter electorate. The electorates of most members of this House are represented by three tiers of government. There is a local council, a State government and the Federal government. Federal members of parliament represent between 100,000 and 140,000 people, or 60,000 to 70,000 voters. In carrying out their task of representing those people they have the assistance of three or four State members of parliament. They also have the assistance of two or three local councils. 
The four members who represent the Capital Territory have very little assistance at all. We do not have a State parliament, and our House of Assembly is just finding its way. Members of parliament who represent the Capital Territory are expected to represent their constituents in local government affairs, State government affairs and Federal government affairs. This means that we need to be experts on everything from leaking taps to nuclear energy. 
The Remuneration Tribunal has the responsibility of looking after the terms and conditions of employment not only of members of the House of Assembly but also of members of this Parliament. It seems strange to me that when a submission was put to that Remuneration Tribunal this year suggesting that representatives of the Capital Territory- they have three times the work load of other members of this Parliament and have to look after local council and State government affairs, as well as matters concerned with health, education, buses, removing of manure from streets and the like- should be provided with an extra member of staff, we got very little hearing. 
When  Mr Jim  Fraser was the member for the Australian Capital Territory, as it then was, he was given an extra member of staff because it was recognised that the work load of a representative in the Capital Territory was particularly high. That particular perk, if that is the way to put it, was not added to by the former Government when  Mr Daly  approved the appointment of a member of staff for all members of parliament. The local member suggested that he should get an extra member of staff. He was told: Do not worry. Canberra is going to have local government shortly, so you do not need an extra member of staff. ' 
We do not have local government in the Australian Capital Territory. The four local members put in a very thoughtful submission to the Remuneration Tribunal on how we would like to better serve our constituents. We got nowhere. I am sure that the honourable member for Wills will agree that in this situation we need to have more help so that we may more properly represent our constituents. We do not have the easy ride enjoyed by members representing metropolitan seats in Melbourne. 
Is the Minister for the Capital Territory aware of articles which have appeared in the  Canberra Times  speculating that the Australian Gas Light Co. would offer to invest up to $30m in Canberra and Queanbeyan to reticulate natural gas in this area? Are such reports correct? Would such a project assist in the conservation of scarce oil reserves? Would considerable local employment be created? Is the Minister able to inform the House of other expressions of confidence in the future of Canberra by private enterprise which give the lie to the statements of doom and gloom emanating from the other side of the House? 
Is the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs aware of claims that the recent youth conference held in Canberra was a fiasco and, more particularly, that important and representative groups of Australian youth were not present? Can the Minister refute those assertions? 
-I completely reject the amendment moved by the Opposition. It is a spurious smokescreen to hide from the people of Australia the real facts in relation to the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill. The Government concedes that the program set out in this Bill represents, in fact, a 13.2 per cent reduction. However, it is quite specious, mischievous and misleading of the Opposition to focus on this particular component of Commonwealth assistance to the States. It is nonsense to suggest that there will be a corresponding reduction in the works program. A proper comparison with funding last year can be made only in the overall context of total Commonwealth payments to the States and borrowings by State authorities. 
The amount of money which is the subject matter of this Bill is arrived at on a formula of taking one-third of the amount to which the Loan Council has agreed; that is, one-third of the total funds for the program of $ 1,245m which was agreed to at the June 1979 Loan Council meeting. This represents a continuation of the arrangement initiated by the coalition parties when in government in June 1970. The funds represent a portion of the State government Loan Council program and are interest free, non-repayable grants in lieu of what would otherwise be interest bearing borrowings by the States. This is done in recognition that certain expenditure is to be made on projects which will give no financial return to the States. A good example of such a project would be the construction of a facility such as a police station. 
I turn now to the nonsense put forward by the socialist Opposition that we should look at this component of assistance to the States as a reduction and argue that a reduction in part represents a reduction in the whole. This sort of warped logic and half-truth is typical of the socialist Opposition's method of misleading the people of Australia. The Opposition argues in this way every day in this House on the basis that if one repeats a half-truth often enough people begin to believe it. But the people of Australia are not easily misled. The last two elections have demonstrated that point. I dare say that the election at the end of next year will reinforce it. 
When we look at the total funds available to the States from the Commonwealth Budget- a massive $ 11,168m in 1979-80- we see an observable increase of 6.6 per cent. This, as has been rightly pointed out by the  speaker  for the Opposition, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  has to be cut back to take into account the effects of the erosion of inflation. People in Australia realise that governments cannot continue all the time to spend more and more of their money unless the people pay greater amounts of tax. As the people of Canberra particularly know very well, the continuation of public expenditure has to reach a level at some stage where, because of the high standard of living that has already been achieved by many people in Australia, it is not necessarily productive to the nation to continue to raise that sort of expenditure by increased taxes and borrowings. If we look at the 6.6 per cent increase in funds and take into account State authority borrowings we see that the estimated total figure is a thumping $ 13,408m which represents an 8.6 per cent expenditure or borrowings increase. We cannot continue all the time, as was tried in the 
Labor years of 1972-75, to spend more and more money without putting other components of a fairly fragile developing economy in Australia at risk. 
To be completely fair to a proper consideration of the availability of funds to States to finance their activities, it is necessary to go further and to look at the borrowings by State authorities on their own account. Honourable members will recall that in November 1978 the Government supported large, special increases to State authorities' programs in the form of infrastructure financing for a number of major development projects. Some $400 m was approved for 1979-80 and a total of $1.9 billion was approved over eight years. We must add to this the fact that Commonwealth general purpose payments to the States, the most important element of overall payments to the States and of which the grants proposed in this Bill form a part, will increase by 7. 1 per cent. The general revenue assistance component to the States, that is essentially the tax sharing entitlement, increased by 13.2 per cent. A close analysis reveals that all of these amounts are increasing. There is not the doom and gloom that the Opposition would have the people of Australia accept after listening to the speech of the honourable member for Gellibrand. 
The overall picture is thus, if one is truthful, properly seen in the context of growth in the States' share of tax entitlements. Added to this is the real benefit flowing through to local government authorities in their share of net personal income tax collections which has increased by 23.6 per cent. As my colleague the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  would know, the assistance to local government, is one of the most important and appreciated aspects of the federalism policy which the coalition parties have been following so successfully, both in terms of appreciation and in terms of votes flowing to them around Australia not only in the Federal sphere but also in State elections. 
At a time of very proper concern to rein in the expansion of the public sector- a concern which is not shared by the Opposition and which it would throw aside, heading this fine country into another downward spiral of socialistic economic squander that characterised the disastrous Labor years from 1972 to 1975- the present proposals are generous and responsible. We can see increases in all aspects of the funds flowing through to the States at a time when this Government has continually and without any excuse or apology been preaching financial restraint. The 
Government intends to ensure that Government expenditure is carefully controlled while giving the States increases and telling them that they should be responsible for answering to their voters and to their own people on how they spend their taxpayers ' money rather than having it handed to the States by a spendthrift Federal Government reaching into people's pockets, taking their precious earnings from them. 
After listening to the usual destructive and misleading diatribe that flows from the Opposition benches- I am sure that the next speaker will continue the diatribe because he is becoming well known for being one of the chipontheshoulder socialists who spews out doctrinaire socialist claptrap daily in this place- I believe that people feel that the States have received terrible treatment. It may reach the stage where one would think that the rape of the Sabine women was a veritable Sunday school picnic compared with what the coalition Government has done to the States. My colleagues from the States know that this is not true. It is nonsense. 
When the State Premiers left Canberra after the June Premiers Conference at which the level of funding specified in this Bill was determined they all bleated and bayed to the Press about how poorly they had done. The honourable member for Gellibrand read out their statements which are a set piece. Everybody in Australia knows that the Premiers go through this every June or July. I can remember  Sir Henry  Bolte being a past master. It continues year after year and I think that people generally feel that there is no substance in it because it is a little like the boy who called wolf. 
We should remember that the total Budget expenditure by the Commonwealth increased by 9.1 per cent in this financial year. Let me compare that 9. 1 per cent with the increase the States have managed. On the revenue side New South Wales has increased its Budget expenditure by 13.6 per cent, Victoria by 13.8 per cent, Queensland by 1 1.6 per cent, Western Australia by 12.1 per cent and Tasmania by 1 1.9 per cent. All States have increased their expenditure at a time when they have been bleating. The State capital works Budgets have gone up by about 9 per cent to 10 per cent in general terms. In addition, all five States have had tax cuts in their Budgets. The Premiers have been going back to the people in their States, appearing on national television and saying what a bad Federal Government we have. But at the same time they have been merrily increasing their own expenditure and cutting their own tax take. 
All this gives the lie to the mindless carping that comes from Opposition supporters who are so preoccupied with their left wing socialist dogma that they cannot recognise the financial responsibility of Liberal-National Country Party governments. Quite plainly, the Opposition is so preoccupied with the size of the hole, and not with the size of the doughnut, that it continually misses the whole point of the thrust of this Government's sound economic management of this country. In spite of the doom and gloom and the destructive effect of Labor Opposition supporters, and their preoccupation with character assassination and personal vendetta, and their attempts to divert public attention from the resurgence of the country's economic strength, the people of Australia recognise that this Bill typifies the measures being taken by a responsible government. When it is fitted into place with other measures managing the finances to be made available to the States, it shows how well the economy is being structured to bring this country back to economic strength. We are at last leaving the disastrous social experiment behind and I believe that the very favourable consumer price index figures that were released today give strength to this argument. 
Let me inform honourable members opposite what good government brings to this country. It should not be necessary to do so, but one hears day after day the same old tired rhetoric from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who has about three speeches and repeats them daily, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  and other members of the Opposition who appear more like slow learners than members of parliament. Let me recite just a few of the manifestations of economic resurgence and the unrebuttable evidence of good economic management. Inflation has been reduced from a peak of 17 per cent in 1975 to about 9 per cent now. Our balance of payments situation has improved, largely occasioned by a strong growth in exports of all categories. In fact, a record trade surplus occurred in September due largely to this country's getting its costs under control. Private capital inflow for 1978-79 was the largest for seven years. This is indicative of overseas confidence in the strength and stability of the Australian economy. A marked rise has taken place in a number of major investment projects and further investment is foreshadowed. Domestic investment is up and corporate profits have improved to encourage businesses to invest, to expand, and to create jobs in the economy. Civilian employment has grown by over 60,000 in the past 12 months. So there are 60,000 extra jobs in Australia. 
How many people did the Labor Government put out of work? In one go it put 1 50,000 people out of work in one year. That is its record. In this last year we have put 60,000 members of the work force into new jobs. Importantly, for the first time in six years employment in the manufacturing sector has increased and farm incomes have shown substantial increases over the last 12 months. My speech this afternoon follows that of the honourable member for Gellibrand. Many honourable members would not appreciate, of course, that we have so much in common. We are both about the same age. We both went to the same schoolHyde Street State School, a fine state school in the industrial western suburbs of Melbourne. We both went to Melbourne University and we both graduated in commerce. At our old school, if we were a bit slow in picking things up, our teacher made us write things out 10 times after school. I was most upset to hear my colleague's speech this afternoon because he has quite obviously not understood how well the economic strategy of this Government is working and how excellent the advice is from our advisers. I would suggest that the 10 points I have made to indicate how well the Government's economic strategy is working could, with profit, this afternoon be written out 10 times by the honourable member for Gellibrand. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to an assertion that the military exercise Kangaroo III was to a large extent a hollow shell? Has any professional assessment been made of the allegation? If so, what is the result? 
Is the Deputy Prime Minister aware that there are only six weeks to Christmas? Can he inform the House whether this Government is taking any steps to ensure that the man in the street and Australia's important and labourintensive retailing industry have a good Christmas? 
-Is the Minister for the Capital Territory aware of criticism of the terms and conditions upon which commercial leases are granted in the Australian Capital Territory and of the claim that they act as a disincentive to private sector investment in Canberra? Does the 
Government intend to take action to encourage private enterprise investment in Canberra to widen the employment base and to ensure that Canberra continues to have the lowest rate of unemployment in Australia? 
