I move: 
That the following Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General be agreed to: 
 I  address my question to the Minister for Immigration. Is he aware that Victorian secondary schools with very heavy non-English speaking enrolments are being refused permission to employ enough English language teachers despite the fact that such teachers are available for employment? Is this an extension of the policy under which the Victorian Government diverts specialised English language teachers to general teaching duties? Will he take action as a matter of urgency to see that Victoria's migrant children are not denied the English teachers upon whom their wider education so largely depends? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration. It arises from the aspect of migrant education which 1 raised with him at question time on Tuesday. 
No, not this time. Did the Victorian Director of Education say on Wednesday that no additional teachers would be employed under the Child Migrant Education Program until general teaching requirements had been met? Does he believe that the program can succeed in the face of this indifference to the needs of the migrant child? Will he consider amending the Child Migrant Education Program so that where State governments refuse to employ English language teachers the Commonwealth Teaching Service will do so? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Can he say whether the Government is providing aid for schools in exact accord with the program outlined in his policy speech? When does he expect to receive the report of the Interim Committee for Australian Schools Commission and to act on that report? Will he assure the House that this timetable will enable school authorities to complete their preparations for the 1974 school year before the beginning of the first school term? 
The importance of this legislation lies not in its economic implications but in its social promise. Exempting contraceptives from taxation represents an early and quite minor stage in our new Government's program for enabling Australians to regulate as they choose the fertility with which they are endowed. After listening to the speech of the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  which represented a welcome nod in the direction of the Women's Electoral Lobby, I feel that I should fill in with more care and precision than that honourable member some of the background against which this Bill is set.  President  Nixon's Commission on Population Growth and the American Future reported last year that 21.1 per cent of America's unmarried women were sexually active before their seventeenth birthday, 26.6 per cent before their eighteenth birthday, 37.1 per cent before their nineteenth birthday and 46.1 per cent before their twentieth birthday. The Commission pointed out that most of the women concerned seldom or never used birth control techniques. Comparable figures are not available for this country, but there are facts upon which an informed guess can be based. In Australia, as in America, two-fifths of all illegitimate children are born to teenage mothers. Whereas 10 per cent of all Australian births occur out of wedlock, 33 per cent occur out of wedlock where the mother is under 20 years of age. Two-thirds of the first births of wives under 21 years of age occur less than 9 months after marriage. It is significant in the light of the figures I have just quoted that whereas about one in every 10 marriages ends in a divorce court, a symposium sponsored in Brisbane by the Australian Medical Association was told that half of Queensland's divorces involved women who married under age. 
Ninety per cent of Australia's married women of child-bearing age practise family planning but only 63 per cent of those who do so use reliable methods such as oral contraceptives and intra-uterine devices, or exercise an informed preference for the ovulation method associated with the Catholic faith. One per cent of the married women who practise family planning rely upon douching, which has a failure rate of 31 per cent; 2 per cent upon spermicides, with a failure rate of 20 per cent; 5 per cent upon diaphragms, with a failure rate of 12 per cent; 9 per cent upon condoms, with a failure rate of 14 per cent; and 19 per cent upon withdrawal, with a failure rate of 18 per cent. In all, 37 per cent of these women are dependent for protection against unwanted pregnancies upon techniques which are known to be unreliable. It is interesting to note that the consumer organisation in this city of Canberra found unreliable in tests which it conducted in 1964 2.7 per cent of Durex brand condoms, 8 per cent of Superchecker, 9.3 per cent of Silvertex, 10 per cent of Durex Gossamer and 28.7 per cent of Wet-chek. It will be recalled that the former Minister for the Navy told the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  on 28th September last that condoms to the value of 38,335 issued by his Department over the preceding 5 years had not been for contraceptive purposes. That, it seems, was just as well. 
Unwanted pregnancies are occurring in excessive numbers in all sections of the community, and they are occurring most frequently in those sections of the community which can afford them least. Whereas only 7 per cent of married women with 13 or more years of formal education have never practised family planning, 11 per cent of those with 10 to 12 years of education, 13 per cent of those with 7 to 9 years of education, 19 per cent of those with 1 to 6 years of education and 22 per cent of those who are devoid of formal education - they are a significant group within our community - have never done so. Up to 37 per cent of women from professional, managerial or white collar occupational backgrounds use oral contraceptives or intra-uterine devices, but only 15 per cent from unskilled occupations do so. Conversely 36 per cent of women from unskilled occupational backgrounds rely upon withdrawal, but only about 2 per cent of professional, managerial and white collar women do so. Less educated women are more likely to use unreliable family planning methods and to adopt them without the guidance of doctors. Only half a sample of women who were interviewed recently at the Royal Brisbane Hospital had ever consulted a doctor about family planning, although 85 per cent of them thought family planning was a good idea. We are faced not only with women who cannot afford to buy reliable contraceptives but also with women who have no idea which contraceptives to buy. 
Ignorance of family planning and failures of family planning, often arising from the economic circumstance with which this Bill in part deals, have created a situation in which doctors estimate that up to half the pregnancies which occur in Australia each year are unwanted. Surveys show that 11 per cent of the mothers of 2-child families, 28 per cent of the mothers of 3-child families, 41 per cent of the mothers of 4-child families and 45 per cent of the mothers of 5-chiId families would rather not have had their last-born child. Estimates of the number of pregnancies which are aborted range as high as 120,000 each year. 
I will gladly provide the honourable member with a list of references after the debate. Abortion is a repellant practice which remains, in the situation I have described, inevitable. We need better policies to minimise the frequency with which women are aborted and to ensure that abortion is regarded as a last resort. Our present laws have turned out to be a means not of achieving these objectives but of corrupting our police forces and of creating a bonanza for backyard butchers. Abortion has not been prevented, but we have made relative freedom from the pain and risk of death or mutilation associated with it yet another privilege of the rich. The program of which today's legislation is a part should be seen as seeking through education and pricing policies a reduction in the incidence of abortion which laws have not achieved and can never achieve. It should be seen in a wider sense as an affirmation by our national Government of the basic human right to exercise over reproduction a voluntary, rational and responsible control. 
It should be remembered that unwanted pregnancies involve a community not only in familiar moral and social problems, to which I have referred, but also in economic problems which are less well understood. A recent Swedish study reveals that children born after their mothers have been refused abortions were far more likely than other children to become members of broken families, inmates of public institutions and recipients of welfare benefits. Cost benefit studies which were carried out in 1972 by Political and Economic Planning for the British Family Planning Association established that averting the birth of an unwanted child saved in public health and welfare services alone $1,350 in the case of a child born fourth in its family, $1,510 in the case of a child born fifth in its family and $8,728 in the case of the illegitimate child. It is a mark of our backwardness in matters of family planning that comparable studies on the cost of unwanted children to Australia do not exist. 
Our former Government increased enormously the likelihood of unwanted pregnancies, abortions and unloved children by refusing to promote sex education in schools or to assist the States, local government bodies and voluntary agencies such as churches in the establishment of family planning clinics through which information on birth control techniques, Including for those who prefer it the ovulation method, could be disseminated effectively. It hampered family planning by prohibiting the advertising of contraceptives, imposing tariff duties and a 'luxury' sales tax of 271 per cent on contraceptives and by excluding prescribed oral contraceptives from the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. 
You would be aware,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that sales tax is levied under item 62 of the Second Schedule of the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act on 'Potentex Cream, Ortho-Gynol Cream, Rosuvin Tablets, Q.T. Cream, Kareen Cream, Agressit Tablets, Semor Tablets, Controids, condoms, goldpin pessaries, cervical caps and goods used for purposes similar to the purposes for which these goods are used*. It is a mark of the time which has gone by since last the tax was revised that no more than two or three of the preparations named can still be bought. Sales tax was introduced on 30th October 1941 as a wartime measure at the rate of 20 per cent and increased subsequently to 271 per cent. Its effect is exacerbated in the case of imported contraceptives by the imposition of tariff duties. Oral, spermicidal and other contraceptives of a chemical character attract a general rate tariff of 321 per cent and preferential rate tariff of 171 per cent. Rubber contraceptives such as condoms and diaphragms attract a general rate of 371 per cent plus 10 per cent primage and a preferential rate of 171 per cent plus 5 per cent primage. Intrauterine devices attract a general rate of 45 per cent and a preferential rate of 271 per cent. These duties are eased in some instances under by-law, but in each case one and onefifth of the sum of the value of the goods and the duty payable on them attracts sales tax at the rate of 271 per cent. 
Whereas the former Government inflated artificially the cost of contraception through its tariff and taxation policies, the present Government has acted through the legislation before us to exempt contraceptives from taxation. 
Whereas the former Government excluded prescribed oral contraceptives from the pharmaceutical benefits scheme, the present Government has incorporated them in the scheme. Health authorities expect that as a result of that single initiative, the number of women reliably protected against unwanted pregnancy by oral contraceptives will rise from 750,000 to lm. Whereas the former Government subsidised family planning for Aborigines but not for other Australians, the present Government has already made available $300,000 for the development of family planning in all sections of our community, including those whose interest is restricted to the ovulation method. 
The increasing frequency with which women are being aborted, unwanted children are being brought into the world and couples are marrying for no other reason than to legitimatise a pregnancy confronts Australians with a challenge. We cannot meet that challenge by remaining inactive like the former Government, nor can we meet it by confining our interest to changing or defending against change the law on abortion. We must provide women who choose to practise family planning with reliable means of doing so at a price they can afford to pay. We must ensure as far as possible that decisions about pregnancy are made before rather than after conception, and that every child born in this country is wanted and loved. 
Can the Prime Minister yet say whether local government is to be represented at the coming constitutional convention with full voting rights? Does it remain his view that the Australian Government should not be represented at the convention unless voting rights are given to local government? 
I ask the Minister for Immigration a question which arises from his visit yesterday to an inner suburban school in Melbourne. Is he aware that the Assistant Director of Education in charge of staffing Victorian secondary schools has issued a circular advising school principals that there is to be no increment over 1972 levels in the migrant English teacher staff of any particular school? Does this circular go on to say that since teachers trained in the teaching of English as a foreign language have other teaching methods they may not be used to teach English to migrant children if this leaves vacancies in relation to their other methods? Is the Minister able to reconcile these instructions with claims by the Victorian Minister for Education that he realises English teaching to migrants is of great importance to certain schools, particularly those in inner suburbs? 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What was the amount of revenue raised from broadcast and television licence fees In each of the last 5 years. 
What (a) amount and (b) percentage of the revenue was expended on administration of the licensing system, including inspection costs. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question about raids. Is he aware that police Under the control of the Victorian Chief Secretary have seized posters of Michelangelo's David? Can he say which other notable works of arts will be threatened if this action is accepted as a precedent? Will he act to ensure that no Australian is denied a full access to the artistic heritage of mankind? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Can he say which Premiers have expressed agreement with the proposal that Local Government should be represented at the foreshadowed constitutional convention with full voting rights. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of students (i) offered and (ii) accepting Commonwealth University Scholarships in the most recent year for which information is available spent their final year of secondary education in (A) government, (B) Catholic and (C) other non-government schools. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of the students in each system (i) applied for and (ii) were offered scholarships in (A) each State and Territory and (B) the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the decision of the former Minister for Health on the application under section 46 of the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinance lodged with him on 24th February 1972, for a permit to advertise contraceptives (Hansard, page 1291). 
Have any further applications been received; if so, what was the decision in each case. 
asked  the  Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Has he yet completed the calculation of an average national cost per pupil in government (a) primary and (b) secondary schools referred to by his predecessor on 10th October 1972 (Hansard, page 2339). 
Will he provide comparable figures for Catholic and other non-government schools. 
asked the Minister tor Education, upon notice: 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of students enrolled in (i) Government, (ii) Catholic and (iii) other nongovernment schools (A) sat for and (B) were awarded Commonwealth secondary scholarships in 1972 in fi) each State and Territory and (II) the Commonwealth. (Hansard. 12 April 1972, page IS67). 
What percentage of all the candidates was from each of the three school systems in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth. 
What percentage of the scholarships was awarded to candidates from each of the three school systems in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Immi gration, upon notice: 
Will he bring up to date his predecessor's answer on the meetings and publications of the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications (Hansard, 21st April 1971, page 1852; 8th September 1971, page 981 and 26th April 1972, page 2059). 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House is of opinion that a royal commission, of which the  Chairman  shall be a Supreme Court Justice and a majority of members shall be women, should enquire into and report within 12 months upon: 
How many abortions are performed each year in Australia and what are the characteristics of the women who are aborted and the circumstances in which abortions occur. 
What are the consequences of abortion for women who are aborted, practitioners performing abortion procedures, police enforcing the laws on abortion and the community as a whole. 
What are the courses open to women who carry through unwanted pregnancies and what are the consequences of each course for the mother and for the child. 
How effective are the laws on abortion of the Australian Capital Territory, of each State and of countries comparable with Australia, what alternatives to the law in the Australian Capital Territory are offered by laws in other places and what are the likely medical, social and economic effects associated with each alternative. (5)In what ways can the incidence of abortion be reduced by improving services and facilities such as sex education in schools, family planning clinics, supply of contraceptives, pregnancy support agencies, adoption agencies and social security payments. 
Other matters which the commission regards as relevant to abortion and the shortcomings in fertility control of which abortion is an expression.' 
I had not thought to hear a man of the admired integrity of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  suggest that a proposal in which he saw considerable merit should be rejected because of what other people might think about it. I had not thought to hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  depart so quickly from the call for an inquiry on which he was quoted - not just reported but quoted - throughout the daily Press of Australia only 10 days ago. The remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  bore out clearly the need for an inquiry. Both the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Australian Country Party said that changes in the law on abortion would not affect the incidence of illegal abortions. Both the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Australian Country Party quoted from the Medical Journal of Australia' of 28th April but I find it strange that both failed to quote the conclusion reached by that journal and, presumably, by the medical profession in the matter of  South Australia. It  said: 
The number of abortions performed has been a little higher than the proponents of the legislation expected, but it is not nearly as high as pre-existing practice was stated to be by antiabortionists who opposed the Bill. 
I come to the  crucial  point - 
There is no factual evidence of non-medical abortionists continuing to practise in South Australia at present - the admission of patients with septic and incomplete abortions to public hospitals fell dramatically after legalisation. 
I find it strange that the honourable gentlemen omitted to mention that conclusion. 
Royal commissions are a means of obtaining information which would otherwise be unavailable, of drawing to public attention facts which would otherwise be neglected, and of reconciling points of view which would otherwise remain opposed. In this country not even basic information such as the number of abortions which are performed legally in public hospitals is available. Available information about contraception, abortion and the risks of abortion, to which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made very proper reference, and about alternatives to abortion is unfamiliar to the women upon whom ignorance can impose such heavy penalties. Reason has given way to recrimination, and opposing factions revile each other respectively as 'murderers' and 'bigots'. We must become accustomed again to reasoning with one another and a royal commission will provide an appropriate agency for that purpose. Honourable members may vote in good conscience to reject the Bill which is before the House but nobody can vote in conscience to sweep under the mat once more the fact that the experts estimate up to 120,000 abortions are performed annually in Australia. 
The figure of 120,000 comes from the professor of political science at the University of Sydney who has gone into the matter in some detail. Political science is a relevant discipline with a statistical basis for the inquiry. An overwhelming majority of these abortions are being performed under conditions which exacerbate the dangers to life and health and future fertility which are associated inescapably with all abortion procedures and which, as I said, were very properly outlined by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. An overwhelming majority of these abortions are being performed on a basis which corrupts our law enforcement agencies and brings into disrepute the rule of law itself. I have moved my amendment to ensure that attention will be paid to these matters. I have moved it to ensure that, as a nation, we face up for the first time not only to the prevalence of abortion under our present laws but also to the disastrous shortcomings in fertility control and other social policies of which abortion is merely a symptom. It is only by supporting this amendment that honourable members can be true to themselves, to the electorates they represent in this House and in particular to the women in those electorates who will bear the burden of whatever decision is reached in this place. 
I  have said that experts estimate up to 120,000 women are aborted each year in Australia. If the total were only half as great, the problem would still be most significant. This is the incidence of abortion, not in any hypothetical situation which might emerge if this House were to pass the Bill before it, but in a situation which exists today and has existed for years. That situation has been created not by permissive abortion laws or by abortion law reformers, but by the apathy which keeps us from facing up squarely to the challenge of family planning or taking seriously the breakdown in fertility control and other social policies to which I have already referred. 
Seventy-seven per cent of all the women who were aborted in South Australia in 1971 had not used any form of contraception on the occasion on which they became pregnant, and 90 per cent of the women under 20 years of age - a good deal of attention has been focused on them - had not used any form of conception on the occasion on which they became pregnant. As the Leader of the Australian Country Party said, there is an appalling irresponsibility involved on the part not only of the women concerned but also of the community to which they belong. The 'Medical Journal of Australia' - and I will quote frequently from this publication because it has gone into the matter in some depth over a number of issues - pointed out on 3rd February: 
The vast majority of young girls seeking an abortion had had sexual relations for some months at least before conception occurred, and some had tried to obtain help, but had been refused by the medical profession. Others had not sought advice because they did not know to whom to go for assistance. 
Is it any wonder that in these circumstances the proportion of women seeking abortions in South Australia who were under 20 years of age increased between 1970 and 1971 from 20 per cent to 30 per cent? As Professor Wood has pointed out: 
Women, married and unmarried, religious and  irrelegious,  rich and poor, young and old, will risk death and legal penalty to rid themselves of an unwanted pregnancy. 
A quarter of the women who were aborted legally in South Australia in 1971 gave their religion as Roman Catholic, although only 20 per cent of the population of that State are members of the Catholic Church. One in every 3 of the women who applied for and were refused abortions in that State was subsequently aborted on an illegal basis. 
Variations between countries in the incidence of abortion - and they have been clearly documented - demonstrate conclusively that the ratio of abortions to live births depends not upon the flexibility or rigidity of the laws by which abortion is governed, but upon the initiative which governments show in providing proper sex education and family planning services and the support that is given by public opinion to governments in the provision of these services and their use by the community. In Britain where abortion laws are relatively permissive and in Sweden where abortion laws are relatively strict, widespread use of family planning keeps the rate at which women are aborted to between 12 and 15 abortions for every 100 live births. Poland, Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia, where abortion is permitted and family planning is neglected, have between 30 and 35 abortions for every 100 live births. France, which endeavoured until recently to suppress both abortion and family planning, has 50 abortions for every 100 live births, and Italy where both abortions and family planning are still suppressed has abortions and live births in equal numbers. 
I have already quoted to honourable members the conclusions reached by the medical profession in regard to South Australia. The acceleration in the development of fertility control services in Britain since 1967, the appointment of  Mrs Justice  Lane's committee of inquiry - and I emphasise the word  Mrs' -  into the operation of the Abortion Act, the quality of evidence presented so far to the Lane Committee and the public backing for the Committee's work all support the view that nations such as our own will rise to the challenge of fertility control if the abortion problem is brought home vividly enough to them. A royal commission would be the proper and productive way of bringing home to the community the facts. Can anyone doubt that the sort of commission which would be conducted in the months ahead of us after approval by this House would attract the full glare of public attention and scrutiny? What better occasion and what better way would there be of bringing home to the population of this country the inaccuracy of the assumption that being aborted is no more difficult than having a tooth out; the need for proper contraceptive procedures; or the need for us to get behind sex education programs in the schools. Are honourable members generally aware that only in the last week or so the Australian Science Education program, to which attention was directed in this place by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  some 12 months ago, has been adopted in the States with the omission of those sections on contraception which were originally written into it? I find it ironical that this omission should have been authorised at a time of national debate on this abortion issue. We will not begin to reduce the frequency with which women are aborted until we establish clearly in the public mind that there is a connection between abortion and the inadequacy of arrangements under which sex education is provided in our schools; between abortion and our shortage of family planning clinics, pregnancy support agencies and adoption agencies; and between abortion and our tradition of treating as outcasts from society the unmarried mother and her child. I believe that a royal commission along the lines outlined in my amendment will identify clearly the deficiencies in all these areas and mobilise behind its plans the weight of public opinion required to see them put into effect. If measures of this kind had a fraction of the support mobilised to defeat the Medical Practice Clarification Bill, the circumstances in which that Bill was introduced might never have arisen. 
I hope that honourable members will not be influenced in their attitude to this amendment by the anathemas that have been pronounced upon it by the Right to Life Association. We al] have received in the last few days letters from that Association condemning the establishment of a royal commission as 'a clever device by the pro-abortionists to save from defeat a Bill which deserves, by reason of the iniquity of its measures, and the huge volume of public protest it has generated, to be overwhelmingly defeated'. I am sorry to hear members of the Country Party say 'Hear, hear' to so gratuitous an attack upon the freedom of inquiry in this country. We all have had letters in which a royal commission - the highest form of inquiry that can be instituted in this country - is stigmatised as 'a device to enable the concept of abortion on demand to be brought again before the Parliament'. I say to the officers of the Right to Life Association that this attack upon open inquiry exceeds the mandate made available to them by their members and supporters. It is one thing to articulate the conscience of a community and another to exploit that conscience. It is one thing to oppose changes in the law on abortion and another to oppose investigation of ways in which the prevalence of abortion under the law might be reduced. 
I find it ironical that at a time when I was getting many hundreds of letters urging me to be present in this chamber to cast my vote on this matter, members of the executive of the Right to Life Association were at the same time urging me to stay away and not to vote. The establishment of a royal commission on abortion and related issues- 
They are honourable men, and I doubt therefore that they will deny it. The establishment of a royal commission on abortion and related issues has been supported by the leader of the Catholic community in Victoria, Cardinal Knox, by the Anglican Archbishop of Melbourne,  Dr Woods,  and by the Leader of the Opposition in the Victorian Parliament,  Mr Clyde  Holding. It was supported, until his arm was twisted, by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in this place. It is not for nothing that the honourable member is becoming known as 'Instant Lynch'. 
Backyard masters of the knitting needle, doctors of the sort who have been known to charge up to $2,400 for a single abortion and zealots who believe that abortion can be legislated out of existence, all are eager to see this amendment defeated and the underlying causes of abortion once more swept under the mat. Honourable members I think need acknowledge no obligation to this unnatural alliance. The blood, mutilation and mental agony attendant on 60,000, 90,000 or 125,000 abortions annually demand the attention of this Parliament. We should not allow ourselves to be guided in this matter by the example of Pontius Pilate or by the example of the Pharisee of the parable of the good Samaritan. We can neither wash our hands of the. matter nor can we pass by on the other side of the road. This place will have reached a sorry pass if sound proposals are ever swept out of it on a wave of telegrams. 
 I find it strange that the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  should seek to diminish the achievements of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  The honourable member, who has just resumed his seat, omitted to mention the fact that the truly remarkable achievement of the Minister, and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who has worked so closely with him in matters of urban affairs, was to bring about that deathbed repentance of the previous Government over the welfare of the cities of this country of which the National Urban and Regional Development Authority was the first and only expression. The honourable member for Curtin now chides the Minister with having done no more than produce this Bill after being in office for 5 months. Yet in all the 23 years that elapsed between that occasion on which  Sir Robert  Menzies knocked back the application for assistance in urban planning and development of the County of Cumberland in New South Wales, and the occasion on which the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Bill was introduced last year, the government of the day led by  Sir Robert  Menzies, then by  Mr Holt, Mr Gorton  and finally by  Mr McMahon  was resistant to the pleas for assistance from the urban areas and from the regions of this country. 
The honourable member for Curtin complains that no feasibility study was carried out on the Albury-Wodonga project. He shows that he is unaware of the very extensive work in this matter which was carried out by the decentralisation authorities of a Victorian Government which, I might point out to him, is of his own political persuasion. 
I have read the report. Has the honourable member read the report? 
The report was produced by a Liberal government in Victoria and presumably, in the honourable member's view, that government was a responsible body for carrying through its preparation. 
 Mr Speaker,  is the honourable member for Curtin now challenging the competence of the Victorian Government, which faces re-election next Saturday, in the matter of the investigation of proposals for decentralisation? Is he saying that the whole thrust of decentralisation in that State is based on inquiries of a superficial and, in his own words, not very detailed nature? If that is what he is saying, I think the House should take note of his comments on the matter. Another inconsistency which the honourable member for Curtin perpetrated in the speech which he has just delivered was in regard to the legislation on the territorial sea and continental shelf. The honourable member expressed some dismay and disquiet at the fact that this legislation, was to come in without consultation with the States. Yet I do not remember the honourable member expressing a similar dismay or disquiet at the time when the government of which he was a member brought in the same legislation with the same absence of consultation. The honourable member is remarkable for the double standards which he brings to bear on these matters. 
When the Minister for Urban and Regional Development introduced this Bill amending the National Urban and Regional Development Act of 1972 he foreshadowed a new federalism within which the Commonwealth Government, the States and in particular local government authorities will be able to develop, in co-operation, that excellance of urban environment to which increasingly Australians aspire. The establishment of a Cities Commission symbolises a new appreciation on the part of Australians that the quality of our lives is determined at least as much by those things which can be achieved only by communities as by those things which individuals can acquire. It signifies our realisation as a nation that, no matter how opulent our houses, no matter how powerful our cars and no matter how numerous our television sets, stereograms, trail bikes and motor boats, life will remain impoverished for us so long as the shape of our cities is determined more by developers than by town planners and so long as in those cities the quality of air and water supply continues to deteriorate, the roads become more dangerous and congested, public transport becomes more decrepit and the areas of open space become fewer and further apart. 
We will not make good these shortcomings unless there is real co-operation between all 3 levels of government within our federal system. Practical support - I stress the word practical' - for projects undertaken in this spirit of co-operation will be a major responsibility of the Cities Commission. The Commission will accept responsibility in particular for enabling local government to play its full part in urban affairs. One thing which symbolises in my mind the need for a cities commission is a sign on the bank of the Yarra River downstream from Warrandyte in my electorate, at what used to be called the Finn's reserve swimming pool. That sign reads: 'City of Doncaster and Templestowe. Warning. Bacteriological tests indicate this portion of the river is contaminated and unfit for swimming.' The people of Melbourne can neither drink the water of their river below Warrandyte nor swim in it at any point below Templestowe, because State and local government authorities have failed to plan properly for urban development in that State or to invest adequately in sewerage and drainage for expanding areas such as Doncaster, Templestowe and Ringwood. 
Bush enclaves such as Warrandyte and Park Orchards which drain into the Yarra are being dismembered into five-to-the-acre building blocks against the wishes of their residents because there is no plan to back up the stated objective of both parties in Victoria that Melbourne's growth should be restricted to a population of 3 million. The population of unsewered areas for which the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works is responsible increased between 1947 and 1966 from 66,000 to 322,000. The Board estimates that by 1985 the homes of at least 138,000 of these people will still be unsewered and there will be nearly 1 million people living in other areas for which it accepts no responsibility. Much of this increase will occur in the vicinity of the Yarra and its tributaries. Between 1966 and 1969 the most rapid rate of population increase in the Melbourne statistical division was recorded in the area bounded to the west by Heidelberg and Kew, and to the east by Healesville. In that period DoncasterTemplestowe increased its population by 27 per cent, and Lilydale increased its population by 20 per cent. 
The sullage water generated by those extra people, the seepage from their septic tanks and, in some cases, their raw sewage finds its way, directly or' indirectly, into our natural waterways. Whereas every 100 millilitres of gutter water in sewered areas contained 2,500 intestinal bacteria, the same quantity of gutter water in unsewered areas contains up to  5i  million intestinal bacteria. Water is regarded as undrinkable when it has a bacteria count of more than 50, and unswimmable with a count of more than 1,000 but a typical Yarra tributary in the electorate for which I am now the member, and which was represented in the last Parliament by the then Minister for the Environment, contains concentrations of bacteria ranging from 18,000 to 77,000. As always, it is the child who bears the brunt of shortcomings in the public sector. Parents with well-based fears of disease are denying their families access to the creeks and rivers which once played such an important part in the experience of an Australian childhood. Between 1958 and 1968 the number of cases of infectious hepatitis reported in Victoria - this of course is directly attributable to the condition of our water supplies in that State- rose from 1,074 to 2,355. 
The state of the Yarra River and the pattern of development along its valley seriously threaten Melbourne's capacity to meet a growing demand for domestic and industrial water. Current water supply planning envisages the upper reaches of the river continuing to play their part as Melbourne's major water source. The validity of this assumption is called into question when councils outside the MMBW area permit subdivisions such as those that have occurred in the Armstrong's Creek area, or allow timbered land to be cleared indiscriminately for farming purposes. Victoria's Town and Country Planning Board estimates that land clearance is proceeding in the upper Yarra area at a rate of 7 per cent per annum. Fourteen hundred building blocks have been created by the Upper Yarra Shire within the last 10 years. Both of these developments exacerbate existing pollution problems with additional agricultural chemicals and domestic effluent, and an accelerated rate of runoff which creates its own obstacles to effective conservation. Protecting water quality in the Yarra storages of the future will be far more difficult and far more costly as a result of failure to act while there was still time available. The Yarra Brae Dam, which threatens already to become Victoria's own Lake Pedder, may turn out in addition to be Australia's largest cesspool. Melbourne's water storage resources have been compromised for the sake of indiscriminate subdivision and the establishment of ill-sited and, very often, uneconomic farms. 
I cite the difficulties with which Melbourne is faced in augmenting and sustaining its water supply, and indeed the condition to which Melbourne's existing waterways have been reduced, as an example of the pressures which build up on cities when their population exceed reasonable bounds. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  said that the work of the Cities Commission and the policy of this Government would be orientated excessively to Melbourne and Sydney. I say to the honourable member that the Cities Commission has a role to play which will be beneficial to all six of our State capitals. 
While there is great work to be done in making good the errors of the past and avoiding future errors in those 6 State capitals, the future for urban development in Australia lies with the development of the new cities. 
Planning which limits its horizons to existing centres of population cannot hope to solve their problems. At the best, it will provide breathing space while the need for more drastic measures wins recognition. There is a very large educative process to be undertaken by this Government, by the Cities Commission and by the Department of Urban and Regional Development of which that Commission is an instrumentality. 
We have seen very clearly what follows natural development, in other words doing nothing and letting events take their course. Natural development has reduced Sydney and Melbourne to their present condition and will shortly have Perth, Adelaide and Brisbane in the same predicament. 
A start should be made immediately on the development of at least 6 completely new cities comparable to Canberra. The Cities Commission will see that the sites selected for these cities are the best available and that they are equipped at the outset with the diversity of employment, accommodation, recreation and education which they will need to attract families from the present State capitals. The relief available in this way should not be exaggerated. Developing new cities from the rest of the century at twice the rate of development of Canberra will reduce the growth of Sydney and Melbourne on present population trends by little more than 20 per cent. Australias post-war population increase has been housed so far at the expense of extending indefinitely the backlog of services in both inner and outer suburbs. Inadequate education, health care, social welfare and law enforcement as well as a deteriorating physical environment are the price of our having chosen to move so far so fast within such narrow confines. Immigration as an expression of territorial insecurity has now outlived the circumstances which inspired it. Resources should be redirected to making good the shortcomings of our own society and increasing our assistance to neighbouring countries in the reasonable certainty that if Armageddon comes it will be for reasons other than ovr failure to sustain a 2 per cent per annum rate of population browth 
Given intelligent planning of our existing cities, enterprise in the development of our new centres and a reasonable recognition of the point beyond which population increase outstrips the resources available to meet it, Australia can provide the 85 per cent of 'ts people who make homes in urban areas with a standard of living and a diversity of life styles to which most nations can only aspire. There will be sub-standard subdivisions, bulldozing of bush and a further proliferation of polution only if we impose these things on ourselves through our own inaction, or as the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  might prefer it, through the natural way. The alternative to action is deterioration by default. 
asked the Minister for  Education,  upon notice: 
What are the names of the (a) government, (b) Catholic and (c) other non-government schools in each State and Territory which will acquire (i) science accommodation and (ii) library accommodation in the remaining currency of the Secondary Schools Science Facilities Program and the Secondary Schools Libraries Program. 
What percentage of eligible schools in each system will have acquired (a) science accommodation and (b) library accommodation by the date on which each program is terminated. (Hansard, 26th April 1972, page 2033). 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many women were using oral contraceptives in each of the last 5 years and what percentage was this number of all women aged 18 to 45 years at 31st December of the year in question. 
How many women does he expect to be using oral contraceptives on 31st December 1973 and what percentage is this number of all women who will be aged 18 to 45 years on that date. 
What is the cost of a month's supply of prescribed oral contraceptives to women who buy (a) monthly, (b) every 2 months and (c) every 6 months and what was the cost in each case a year ago. 
What does he expect to be the cost of exempting oral contraceptives from sales lax in a full year. 
What does he expect to be the cost of making available oral contraceptives as a pharmaceutical benefit in a full year. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 I do. I refer to Hansard of last Thursday, 10th May 1973, pages 1996 and 1997. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  said: 
I understood the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  to say that Cardinal Knox was in favour of a royal commission. In the 'Advocate' of 10th May, printed under the heading of 'Clarification', appears this statement: 
In view of the misleading statement published in an evening paper I wish to state categorically that I have not given support to the idea of a royal commission on abortion. 
On the following page the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  said:  1 have been asked to correct a statement that was made by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  who said that Cardinal Knox of Victoria is in favour of the establishment of a royal  commission to investigate the subject of abortion. I am told, and the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  just confirmed it, that Cardinal Knox has issued a statement saying that he is not in favour of a royal commission. 1 quote from the Melbourne 'Herald' of 30 April where a report appears under the heading 'Knox Favours Probe on Abortion'. The report states: 
The Roman Catholic Church favoured a royal commission into abortion, a spokesman said today. 
The Rev. Fr. A.  Rebeschini,  private secretary to the Archbishop of Melbourne, Cardinal Knox, was commenting on State Labor's election promise of a commission. 
Fr, Rebeschini is official spokesman for Cardinal Knox. He said Cardinal Knox shared this view 'The judgment would show the major social problems that lead women to having an abortion,' he said. 
A Royal Commission would point out ins social and personal needs for women in the community - marriage counselling, family planning and sex education. It would show just what help single mothers need.' 
The report goes on in that vein. It was amplified the following day by a number of morning newspapers including the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. I quote the report to demonstrate that my remarks were made in good faith. I find it very difficult to imagine how so detailed a report, consisting as it does very largely of quotations of direct speech, could be held to be misleading. I find it very difficult to imagine how, if the report were held to be misleading, the correction waited for a full 10 days. I believe that some explanation is due to people, if not from the Cardinal then from his official spokesman, the Rev. Fr. Rebeschini 

 Mr MCMAHON (Lowe) -  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Second ary Industry, upon notice: 
What was the (a) quantity and (b) value of each form of contraceptive (i) produced by and (ii) imported into Australia in each of the last 5 years. 
What progress has been made in the development of standards for locally made contraceptives since the answer given by the former Minister for Health on 16th May 1972 (Hansard, page 2641). 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many teachers are employed in Victoria under the Child Migrant Education Program. 
What is the (a) number and (b) percentage who are employed (i) full-time and (ii) part-time. 
What are the names of the Victorian schools in which teachers are employed under the Program. 
How many teachers are employed under the Program in each school. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of the students at each school needs to be taught English. 
What are the names of Victorian schools in which teachers would be employed under the Program if they were available. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of the students at each of these schools needs to be taught English. 
Are teachers employed in Victorian schools under the Program being used for general teaching duties. 
If so, on how many occasions has this abuse been reported to him or his predecessors. 
Has he been able to establish whether the Victorian Director of Education,  Mr Brooks,  was expressing Victorian Government policy when he said on 6 March 1973 that additional teachers would not be employed under the Program until general teaching requirements had been met. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What was the date on which (a) the Report of the Nation-wide Survey of Educational Needs was first made available to the Australian Education Council, and (b) each authority participating in the Survey made public its section of the report. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What was the (a) number, and (b) percentage of students enrolled in fi) government, (ii) Catholic, and (iii) other non-government schools in (A) each State and Territory, and (B) the Commonwealth who (I) commenced the first year of secondary education in 1967 or 1968, and (II) enrolled in 1972 for their final year of secondary education (Hansard, 18 April 1972, page 1765). 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What are the names of the non-government schools in each State, other than Catholic and special schools, which failed to answer the questionnaires of the National Survey of Educational Needs (a) before the due date of 22 February 1971, (b) before the deferred date in mid-April 1971 or (c) at all. 
I give notice that on General Business Thursday No. 6 I shall move and the honourable member for Hotham shall second: 
That in the opinion of this House, a Federal Judge should be appointed as sole Commissioner in accordance with the provisions of the Royal Commissions Act to inquire into and report upon: 
How many abortions are performed each year in Australia and what are the characteristics of the women who are aborted and the circumstances in which abortions occur. 
What are the consequences of abortion for women who are aborted, practitioners performing abortion procedures, police enforcing the laws on abortion and the community as a whole. 
What are the courses open to women who carry through unwanted pregnancies and what are the consequences of each course for the mother and for the child. 
How effective are the laws on abortion of the Australian Capital Territory, of each State and of countries comparable with Australia, what alternatives to the law in the Australian Capital Territory are offered by laws in other places and what are the likely medical, social and economic effects associated with each alternative. 
In what ways can the incidence of abortion be reduced by improving services and facilities such as sex education in schools, family planning clinics, supply of contraceptives, pregnancy support agencies, adoption agencies and social security payments. 
Other matters which the Commission regards as relevant to abortion and the shortcomings in fertility control of which abortion is an expression. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
For how many of its employees did the Commonwealth pay fees on (a) an unbonded and (b) a bonded basis for (i) universities, (ii) colleges of advanced education, (iii) teachers' colleges, (iv) technical colleges and (v) other educational institutions in 1971 and 1972? (Hansard, 27 October 1971, page 2649 and 22 February 1972, page 88.) 
Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware that the incidence of scabies among Aboriginal children in east Gippsland threatens to reach epidemic proportions? Is he aware that health services in the area are not coping with this emergency? Does he believe that since the 1967 referendum the Australian Government has had the responsibility for making good deficiencies of this kind? Will he therefore dispatch as a matter of urgency an Australian Government medical team to the East Gippsland area? 
The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  would be a more plausible champion of the rights of local government if he had shown some regard for those rights in the 3 years during which he was a member of this House and his Party was in government. 
I have listened attentively to the honourable gentleman over the years, in debates on this matter in which honourable members who are now on this side of the House regularly urged upon the government of the day the pitiful condition to which local government finance had been reduced by the actions of State and Commonwealth governments. As far back as I can remember - even in 1950  -  it has been the practice of the Australian government - firstly, under  Sir Robert  Menzies, then under  Mr Harold  Holt, then under the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and finally under the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  - to offload on to the States all those matters on which it was unwilling to see public money spent; and the States have not been slow to learn from that example and have offloaded on to local government all those matters upon which they were determined to be parsimonious. 
The honourable member for Curtin said that his foreshadowed amendment incorporated less research than he would have chosen to put into it. I think that, in saying that, he was exploiting a sentiment expressed earlier in this debate by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  who said:   . . the reason for this administrative monstrosity seems to be purely to redeem a rash but vote catching electoral promise by the Prime Minister to allow local government direct access to Commonwealth funds. 
The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  was both more charitable and more accurate in his contribution to the debate. At least he acknowledged and quoted from speeches that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had made on this matter on 8 November 1971 and 25 October 1972. Yet even he did not go back far enough, because I hold in my hand a copy of a speech given by the Prime Minister on 1 September 1969 to local government clerks in Sydney in which he said, in part: 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission was set up to advise the Commonwealth on the fairest way to help the smaller States to provide services and opportunities equivalent to those of the largest States. The commission now has the needs of Tasmania alone to assess; it is very nearly at a loose end.  A  Labor government will use the commission's experience and skill in assessing and recommending the amount of Commonwealth grants required to avoid the unequal burdens of local authorities in servicing developing areas. 
The proposals which are embodied in this Bill have been before the nation and before this Parliament now for a period approaching 4 years. They have been put forward at innumerable assemblies of local government associations in all States, not only by the Prime Minister but also by other spokesmen in my Party. They have been debated in mis House on numerous occasions when my Party has proposed for discussion as a matter of public importance 'the need for additional finance to be made available to local government'. If the honourable member for Curtin has had insufficient chance to research his objection to these proposals he has no one but himself to blame. 
The honourable member for Parramatta, to whom 1 paid a tribute a few moments ago, misunderstood some sections of the Bill, because he said in his contribution: 
If the councils want to establish a child care centre,  a  senior citizens centre,  a  swimming pool or a park ... the Commonwealth Minister, on the advice of the Grants Commission, will now decide it. 
This is a common misapprehension about the purpose of the Bill and one to which I believe 1 should devote some attention. There is abroad, I think, a picture of local government authorities, grouped on a regional basis, waiting on the doorstep of the Grants Commission with proposals for not only those facilities which were mentioned by the honourable member for Parramatta but also a variety of other things ranging from roads to the construction of new town halls. Yet it has been made very clear by the Prime Minister in his second reading speech, by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  who is now at the table, and also by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  whose speech set out very accurately the substance of the Bill, that the grants which are to be disbursed by the Grants Commission under this legislation are concerned purely with the revenues of councils and not with special projects. 
In 1933 the Commonwealth government of the day paid recognition to the discrepancies which then existed between the 4 smaller States - South Australia, Western Australia, Tasmania and Queensland - on the one hand and New South Wales and Victoria on the other. That government recognised very properly that the economics of this country were such that those 4 smaller States could not hope to provide for their populations services and facilities of the standards available in the 2 larger States without imposing upon those populations a truly crushing burden of taxation. The Commonwealth Grants Commission was established to advise the national government of the day on the amounts which should bc made available from national revenue to equalise finances between the States. It was recognised that we are one nation and that Australians should be able to move freely from State to State and from place to place without imposing upon themselves penalties in the form of either deficient services and facilities or exorbitant taxation. 
The differences with which the Commonwealth Grants Commission was originally established to deal are very largely things of the past. Whilst it is true that all 4 claimant States have put cases to the Grants Commission again in recent years, the disabilities set out in those claims and recognised by the Commission have been of a relatively minor nature. There are now much more gross differences between regions within States and particularly between municipalities in developing areas and municipalities in areas where development is complete. This Bill is particularly welcome to those of us who established homes in developing areas in the post-war period, who have brought up families in those developing areas and who in many instances have served on the local councils of those areas. We recognise the crushing burdens which local government has been required to shoulder in areas such as my own electorate of Casey and the electorates that adjoin it - La Trobe, Diamond Valley and Holt - in the western suburbs of Sydney and in comparable areas around every one of our State capitals and regional centres. 
In the period of life of the last Government the debts of the States increased  4i  times over, which in anybody's language is a very considerable increase indeed. Over the same 23 years of Liberal rule the debts of local government - I remind the House that it is local government of all the levels of government in our federation which is required to finance virtually all its capital works from borrowed money - increased no less than 10i times. At the same time, while local government was being required to shoulder this enormous burden of debt, it was being required to accept a whole new range of responsibilities not previously associated with it. My children would not have been taken to infant welfare centres, they would not have been able to find places in pre-school centres, there would have been no open space in which they could roam, no playing fields on which they could participate in team games, no libraries from which they could borrow books, no social workers to advise them and no youth clubs to enrich their recreation, if it had not been for local government. Before the war, local councils were little more than road and drainage boards. 
I believe it is recognised throughout Australia - I was glad that the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Curtin also recognised this fact - that rates levied on property are no longer an adequate taxation basis for local government. It is to the challenge of granting local government access to national taxation revenue that this legislation is addressed. We know how short resources are in this country and how many conflicting calls are made upon those resources which are available. We know that there are very great deficiencies to be made good in the period of life of this Government in undertakings such as schools, hospitals and public transport. We know that the needs of local government for national finance must necessarily compete in the financial market place with these other areas. I was disturbed that the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Curtin seemed to take no account of this call upon scarce resources, for it would seem that section (ii) of the honourable member's amendment envisages that the 5 per cent of national finance which he wants appropriated for local government use would be distributed across the board, no doubt on the per capita basis favoured by his Party for other purposes when in government. 
The Grants Commission proposal before the House is one based upon a concept of need. It is one geared to see that the developing areas in which need is greatest get the greatest recognition. This is not a difficult proposition. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  attempted in his speech to suggest that there was some administrative reason why the Grants Commission should not endeavour to deal simultaneously with the claims of 900 separate municipalities. The fact is that the Grants Commission has accumulated a very great body of expertise in its 40 years of work with the claimant States. It is simply necessary for the Grants Commission to prepare a set of criteria and ascertain a bench mark which might well be, as the Leader of the Opposition suggested, a municipality such as Kew which at this stage of its development has large revenues and relatively few problems. Measuring the criteria of particular municipalities against that bench mark will establish how much those municipalities have available for services and facilities such as libraries, road construction, pre-school education and infant welfare, and what advantage those municipalities are taking of the revenue sources available to them. 
This is a process exactly analogous to that gone through every year by the Grants Commission in assessing the needs of claimant 
States. We believe that it is an equitable formula to apply in assessing the needs of developing municipalities. It is also one which will enable the best possible use to be made available of whatever money it turns out to be possible for this Government to appropriate for local government purposes. Like the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Curtin, I would hope to see an appropriation made for this process in the current financial year. This Bill is the second major item of legislation in a continuing series geared to the establishment of a new federalism in Australia. I found it very strange to hear the honourable member for Curtin accusing this Government of centralism when the legislation to which he was directing his attention in fact provided for a long overdue transfusion to that level of government which is closest to the people of this country. It was under Liberal government that local government became so anaemic and so discredited in the eyes of people who look to it for services which it has been unable to finance. I hope that, on reflection, there will be support for this legislation from all honourable members opposite and especially from honourable members opposite who come from areas like my own on the developing perimeters of our great State capitals and regional centres. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Can he give later figures of pupil-teacher ratios in primary and secondary grades of government, Catholic and other non-government schools in each State and Territory (Hansard, 26 September 1969, page 2146; 17 September 1970, page 1364 and 22 February 1972, page 71). 
Can he give separate figures of enrolment in primary and secondary grades of government, Catholic and other non-government schools in each State and Territory (Hansard, 22 February 1971, page 474 and 22 February 1972, page 71). 
Is it yet possible to provide these figures on a uniform basis which would allow comparisons to be drawn between sectors and States. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">What amount is available to each State under the current Secondary Schools Science Facilities Program, and what is the (a) amount, and (b) percentage so Tar expended by each State. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">What amount is available to each State under the current Secondary Schools Libraries Program, and what is the  (a) amount and (b) percentage so far expended by each State. 
Provision is made under all four of the Bills to which the House is at present giving consideration for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. This provision reflects the fact that responsibility for the welfare of Australians of Aboriginal origin has rested since 1967 with the Australian Parliament. We cannot afford to ignore in the context of that responsibility the way in which the health of Aboriginal children in East Gippsland is undermined and their education is disrupted by an outbreak of scabies which threatens to reach epidemic proportions. We cannot ignore the massive cover-up which is being mounted in this matter by the Victorian health authorities. 
Last Thursday at question time 1 drew the attention of this House and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  to the incidence of scabies among Aboriginal children in East Gippsland. I asked the Minister whether he would arrange for Commonwealth medical officers to visit this area as a matter of urgency and for a permanent medical centre to be established in the interests of treating not only this particular outbreak of scabies but all the other chronic illnesses by which Aboriginal children are handicapped. On Friday morning the Assistant Chief Health Officer of the Victorian Health Department was quoted in the Melbourne 'Age' as denying the existence of a scabies outbreak in East Gippsland. He was quoted as saying that in the past 6 months there had been 'one or two cases of scabies at Lake Tyers', 'a couple at Orbost' and most recently 'one or two at Morwell. On Friday evening  Mrs Nora  Cockrell, an Aboriginal resident of Nowa Nowra which is 15 miles north of Lakes Entrance, was quoted in the Melbourne Herald' as saying that she had never seen scabies so bad among Aboriginal children. She was quoted as saying that between 20 and 30 Aboriginal pupils had been excluded from school in Nowa Nowa because of scabies, and she was supported in this statement by the local Church of England Minister, Rev. K. South. Should we accept in this matter the view of the Assistant Chief Health Officer, sitting in his Melbourne office, or the view of  Mrs Cockrell  and  Mr South  who are on the spot? The grim fact is that when school resumed for the second term at Nowa 
Nowa yesterday every Aboriginal pupil was turned aWay because of scabies. 
I would like to quote briefly from the rough transcript of a meeting which I attended 2 weeks ago in the pre-school centre which is conducted at Nowa Nowa by the Save the Children Fund. The welfare officer to whom the Fund entrusts its centre said in the course of that meeting: 
Just before Christmas, Aboriginal families, especially the children, had a real doing with scabies. It's the second tune round now and if something isn't done quickly we just can't contain it 
She went on to say: 

 Dr Fysh from the Department of Health came up between the first and second outbreaks. He went to both Worthy and the State Director of Health. Both are just pushing the ball backwards and forwards and the problem is still there. I just can't hold scabies on my own. 
A distinguished former office-bearer of the Timber Workers Union, who has lived all his life in East Gippsland, told the meeting: 
The centre will have to clean up forty kids after the holidays. Scabies cover a wide area. I have heard that families right up to Echuca and Wallaga Lake have them. The 'teacher at our school says it's only a matter of time before it gets into the rest' of the population. 
He went on to tell us: 
The discharging ears of these children have a terrible smell, too. Children are avoided at school because of this smell.  I  spent Australia Day at the hospital waiting for a child with maggots in his ears to be treated. I had to take one high school girl to the doctor with it, too. 
An Aboriginal woman who attended the meeting said: 
The children suffer badly with worms. Sometimes they even come out of their mouths. It's just terrible. Worms come out of the mouth and they pass them, too. 
Another Aboriginal woman pointed out: 
The Ministry for Aboriginal Affairs- 
That is, the State Ministry- has all this' officially on the files about the children they looked at. But they just examined them. They didn't fix them up. 
A successful Aboriginal farmer concluded: 
People don't see what happens when they come down from Melbourne. They come down and go back, the same things go on. 
No amount of evasion on the pari of the Victorian health authorities can conceal the fact that the state of Aboriginal children in East Gippsland is a disgrace to Australia. The bodies of these children are scarred by old infestations of scabies and scabbed with current infestations. Their ear drums are perforated and in some cases crawling with maggots as a result of chronic otitis media. They live in a state of lassitude induced by malnutrition, chronic upper respiratory tract infections and massive infestations of worms. 
This is a situation for which existing health services provide no answer.  Dr Mccloskey  says that there is no epidemic of scabies in East Gippsland and will send none of his officers to Nowa Nowa.  His  staff and the nursing staff of the Victorian Department of Aboriginal Affairs do not seem to be equipped, either by training or by temperament, to provide the health care services of which Aboriginal children stand in grave need. In particular, trained nursing sisters employed by the Victorian Department of Aboriginal Affairs as 'health educators' will neither treat Aboriginal children nor advise their mothers on treatment. The attitude of the Department was expressed in a letter sent by the Minister, the Honourable Vance Dickie. M.L.C., on 23 February to the member for Mitcham,  Mrs Dorothy  Goble, M.L.A.  Mr Dickie  wrote: 
Medical officers are not employed by the Ministry, and where opinion is required, the Department of Health provides advice. Nursing sisters are unable to treat patients without the supervision of a doctor, as it is contrary to medical professional practices and nursing training, lt would, therefore, also be of detriment to the health of Aborigines, and the Ministry will noi provide a second-rate service to Aboriginal people. 
I can assure that Minister that almost any sort of health care service for Aborigines would be better than the service available to them at present in Nowa Nowa. Public hospital services for Nowa Nowa and Lake Tyers are situated at Bairnsdale and Aboriginal mothers are expected to get children to the outpatients department at that hospital for treatment. The adult bus fare from Nowa Nowa to Bairnsdale is $1.70 each way and patients are obliged to stay in Bairnsdale overnight. Mothers with up to 7 sick children and no income other than social security benefits have been told by departmental health educators to make this journey. I am told that the policy involved is called 'making the Aborigine stand on his own 2 feet'. 1 was told at Nowa Nowa about q mother whose baby's teeth were knocked out in a fall from a pram. The mother took the child to the health educator, who happened to be on (She spot; but, in conformity with the policy of (She Department by which she is employed, 
Sils  educator would do nothing. The mother asked the educator whether the child should be. taken to hospital - honourable members will recall that there are neither nursing facilities nor a resident doctor at Nowa Nowa - and the educator replied that this depended on what the mother wanted. I do not doubt the good intentions of the Department and its officers, but I doubt their common sense. I was told at Nowa Nowa about a young mother of 4 children who was sick at Bruthen and had an appointment for treatment at Bairnsdale. This woman appealed to an educator for a lift, but the educator got into her car and drove away. The woman hitchhiked to Bairnsdale in heavy rain, was admitted to hospital and died there 3 days later from pleurisy. These things are being done in the name of Aboriginal advancement; they are being done in the name of concern. 
The Minister,  Mr Dickie,  in his letter of 28 February, continued: 
The importance of health is understood by the Ministry, and a number of research projects have been financed and initiated by the Ministry in relation with the Health Department and Melbourne and Monash Universities. The results of these studies have been and will continue to be of direct benefit to Aboriginal people. 
We are all in favour of research, but in East Gippsland there is a desperate need for health services of the most elementary kind. We should all be ashamed that the line is being held in East Gippsland not by public authorities but by representatives of an organisation whose work is associated in the public mind with areas of disaster and privation such as Biafra and Bangladesh. It was to the welfare officer of the Save the Children Fund and not to local representatives of the Victorian Department of Aboriginal Affairs that the Aboriginal children of Nowa Nowa turned yesterday when they were refused admission to school. The welfare officer last term was cleaning up the sores of up to 14 pre-school children in a day so that they could go on receiving the benefit of a pre-school education. She was asked at the time by officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to discontinue this treatment and to send home those children who were infested with scabies. The attitude of the Department is that if children are sick the responsibiliy for their care should be accepted by their parents. The attitude of the welfare officer is that a vital part of tha process of educating Aboriginal children is beeping them well enough to attend school. 
The health of Aboriginal children in East Gippsland may not be bad by comparison with the health of those in some areas where infant mortality has won this country international notoriety. The future of these children may be bright compared with the future of children in areas where the whims of Europeans are still enforced by violence and fear. Neither of these factors justifies the inadequate or inappropriate nature of health services provided at present in East Gippsland by the Victorian Government. It would be inexcusable for this Parliament to fail in the responsibility with which it was entrusted by the people of Australia at the 1967 referendum. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many taxpayers were granted tax concessions for educational expenses in the latest financial year for which figures are available and what was the cost to the revenue of these concessions. 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of taxpayers claiming concessions for educational expenses who did so for expenses incurred at (i) government, (ii) Catholic and (iii) other non-government schools. 
What (a) amount and (b) percentage of the total claimed for educational expenses related to expenses incurred at (i) government, (ii) Catholic and (iii) other non-government schools. 
What was the average per capita value of tax concessions for educational expenses granted to taxpayers for expenses incurred at (i) government, (ii) Catholic and (iii) other non-government schools. 
If he cannot provide the information for (a) government, (b) Catholic and (c) other nongovernment schools, will he do so for (i) government and (ii) non-government schools. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many applications have been received for each level of assistance made available byhim for the education of isolated children. 
What is the percentage in each case of the number of children he expects to apply for assistance under this scheme. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Can he give comparative statistics on the percentage of students completing secondary education, undertaking tertiary education and completing tertiary education later than those given by his predecessor on 8 March 1972 (Hansard, page 756). 
I rise tonight to say a word of thanks to the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  and to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  for the expedition with which they acted in the matter of the health of Aboriginal children in East Gippsland, demonstrating that at least on the part of the Australian Government there is a readiness to recognise problems when they occur. The truth about the health of Aboriginal children in East Gippsland has begun to emerge despite the efforts of health authorities in Melbourne to suppress it. The Health Officer of the Tambo Shire,  Dr H.  M. L. Murray, revealed yesterday that in the East Gippsland hamlet of Nowa Nowa alone there are 16 children under the age of 11 who are infested with scabies. Of 5 of the children he examined yesterday he said: 
Two were so messy that I have not the faintest clue. Their skin was a mass of discharging sores. 
This is the condition which the Assistant Chief Health Officer of Victoria,  Dr B.  P. Mccloskey, regards as 'not a serious health problem but a minor health nuisance'. While  Dr Murray  was making his disclosures,  Dr Mccloskey  continued to insist that there was no health problem. He accused me of overdramatising the situation. He asserted that among the 54 students at Nowa Nowa there were only '2 confirmed cases of scabies and 5 doubtful cases'. 1 received today a copy of a letter sent on 27 May by one of the Aboriginal women to whom I was introduced at Nowa Nowa to a friend in my electorate. She wrote: 
I myself think the scabies are getting worse not better. My sister's family at Warragul are in a terrible state with the horrible skin disease. It's like a mange the children can't stop scratching. It's also at Bruthen, Bairnsdale and Lakes Entrance. 
If  Dr Mccloskey  is unable or unwilling to recognise the gravity of the situation he should resign his high office in favour of someone who will take a less supine approach. The Assistant Chief Health Officer of Victoria should be giving more time to improving the health care delivery for which he is responsible and less to public controversies which are properly responsibilities of the Victorian Minister for Health and the Victorian Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Controversy should not be something at which public servants play while public services decay. 
The Aboriginal people of East Gippsland have no faith left in health services provided by the Victorian Government. They regard officers of the Victorian Department of Health and of the Victorian Department of 
Aboriginal Affairs not, I am sorry to say, as friends but as enemies. I was told at Nowa Nowa: 
A woman had to take her S children to Bairnsdale to be immunised. She told the sister who was visiting that she had no car and couldn't afford the bus. The sister told her 'I'm sure you can hitch-hike'. 
I was also told: 
They have objected to the Save the Children Fund people de-lousing, worming and treating the scabies of children and also to them giving meals. 
I was also told: 
What we've got to do is to say that all responsibility for Aboriginal people should be taken by Canberra. 

 Dr Mccloskey was quoted this morning in the Melbourne 'Age' as calling on the Federal Government to provide his Department with finance for which it asked on 6 April 'to appoint a medical officer as a health educator in the area'. He was quoted as saying: 
We asked for finance to provide a health educator through the State Department of Aboriginal Affairs to the Commonwealth Department about seven weeks ago, but we haven't even received an acknowledgment of the request. 
The finance to which  Dr Mccloskey  refers was requested to provide the car and salary for an officer who would operate not in East Gippsland alone but throughout Victoria. It was requested not to provide the health care services for which a need so clearly exists but to provide yet another health educator of the sort already familiar to the Aboriginal people and rejected by them. It was requested not as a matter for immediate action but as a routine item in the 1973-74 finance program. It was not ignored but rather made the subject of discussions between the Australian Government Departments of Health and Aboriginal Affairs and their Victorian counterparts. 
I rise tonight, as I said at the outset, to thank my colleagues the Minister for Health and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs for the action that has been taken already in the light of my request that Australian Government medical staff should be sent as a matter of urgency to the East Gippsland area. The Assistant Director-General of the Department of Health,  Dr W.  A. Langsford, will visit Lake Tyers and neighbouring centres next week to inquire into the health of their Aboriginal citizens. At the request of  Dr Langsford,  a medical officer of the Victorian Department of Health went to Nowa Nowa today to investigate the incidence of scabies among the children at the Nowa Nowa school and the Save the Children Fund kindergarten. 
I hope that this activity will lead before long to the establishment of the permanent medical centre through which alone an adequate standard of health care can be made available to the Aboriginal people of East Gippsland. I hope that it will lead to a situation in which scabies is something about which Aboriginal children may read but from which they will never suffer. 
asked the Minister for Educa  tion, upon notice: 
What progress has been made towards the preparation of statistics for (a) government, (b) Catholic and (c) other non-government schools in each State and Territory, as are given for universities, on the amount and percentage of their revenues received from (i) Commonwealth sources, (ii) State sources, (iii) endowments and benefactors and (iv) student fees since his predecessor's answer to the then Leader of the Opposition on 7 March , 1972 (Hansard, page 673). 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What percentage of students at (a) universities and (b) colleges of advanced education in each State and Territory were training to be teachers in 1972 (Hansard, 28 March 1972, page 1297). 
What percentage of teacher trainees is attending (a) university and (b) colleges of advanced educa tion and hold (i) university and (ii) advanced education scholarships. 
asked the Minister for Health,  upon notice: 
How many family planning clinics are there in each State and Territory. 
What is the name of the authority or organisation by which each clinic is operated. 
What is the location of each clinic. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he give information for 1969-70 and subsequent years on revenue, debt charges and percentage of debt charges to revenue in respect of local government authorities comparable to that given by his predecessor on 31 May 1972 (Hansard, page 3430). 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will he bring up to date and express on a per capita basis the information provided by his predecessors on expenditure incurred by each State and Territory on pre-school education (Hansard, 24 September 1969, page 1922; 12 June 1970, page 3682; 20 August 1971, page 490; 10 May 1972, page 2284 and 11 May 1972, page 3444). 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Will he now ascertain from each State the names of government schools which will acquire (a) science accommodation and (b) library accommodation in the remaining currency of the Secondary Schools Science Facilities Program and the Secondary Schools Libraries Program. 
Will he also ascertain the percentage of eligible government schools which had acquired (a) science accommodation, and (b) library accommodation at the date on which information to which he referred in his answer to me on 15 May 1973 (Hansard, page 2153) last became available, and the percentage of eligible government schools which are expected to do so by the date on which each program is terminated. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether any former Ministers, in recent years, have retained official documents  of  a confidential nature made available to them in their former official capacity. 
If so, what was the nature of each document retained. 
Is the retention of documents acquired in ' a former official capacity in conformity with (a) the law, (b) convention or (c) precedent 
If not, will he seek an assurance from .any former Ministers known to hold any such documents that these will be returned. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  introduced the Film and Television School Bill on 31 May and on 22 June he appointed a permanent Council for that school under the chairmanship of  Mr Barry  Jones. Not even the very greatly increased appropriations for the arts announced in last Tuesday's Budget speak more clearly of the seriousness with which Australia's new Government is taking its responsibilities in the field of the arts. I think that it was duplicity - that word is not too strong - delay and procrastination on this matter of the film and television training school more than any other single matter which cost Australia's former Government its credibility among people in whose eyes the arts are a major determinant in the quality of life. Honourable members will recall that the need for an Australian film and television training school was raised originally by the Australian Council for the Arts, that the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  undertook in his 1969 election policy speech as Leader of the Liberal Party to establish an interim council to investigate and report upon the project and that at the time when the right honourable member removed himself from office the report was in hand and a start was to be made. When, a few minutes ago, the right honourable gentleman said that a complete lack of vision had been displayed over this project he took the trouble to point out to the House that he was not referring to the current Government. 
Honourable members will recall how the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  as Prime Minister and my predecessor in Casey, as Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts endeavoured, in the parlance of the day, to de-Gortonise this project along with many other projects in a manner that was highly disruptive to the unity of the Liberal Party and damaging to its electoral prospects. It may turn out that the name of the film and television school is engraved on the heart of the right honourable member for Lowe in much the same way as the word 'Calais' was engraved on the heart of an earlier national leader. On 8 September 1971 the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts said in answer to a question without notice from the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley): 
Whilst the Council's enthusiasm for this project is fully apparent, the continuing economic stringencies and the substantial cost of its proposals - estimated  to be over $7m during the next 5 years - have led to consideration of the proposals being deferred for 12 months. 
On 10 September 1971 he told the then Leader of the Opposition that the cost of land for the school would be $2.4m and to spend $7m to provide 12 graduates a year is rather expensive at the moment.' On 16 September 1971 he told the right honourable member for Higgins and the honourable member for Diamond Valley:  we can get just as much aid for the film industry over the years at a very much less cost than by setting up an expensive school from which, at the moment, we cannot be certain that we will need all the graduates. 
He continued: 
. I believe that in the long run I will be able to put to the House a very much better series of proposals than the original proposal for encouraging this great industry. 
It was true that the Minister had been instructed in a telephone call from the then Prime Minister to abort once and for all the film and television training school which had been so great a source of satisfaction to his predecessor, but it was not true either that the cost of establishing the school would be $7m or that its output would be limited to a dozen graduates. The right honourable member for Higgins rightly was not prepared to let the matter rest. He protested with such effect that on 7 October 1971 the Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe, told the former member for Shortland:  it has not been abandoned but merely deferred . . . within recent weeks I have had discussions with my colleague the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, and I have pointed out to him that he is to proceed as quickly as possible to collect all the evidence that becomes available to him so that the proposal can be presented to the Government well before the next Budget and not necessarily therefore in a Budget context. 
On 13 October the right honourable member for Higgins told the House that the cost of land for the school was not $2.4m but $320,000. He disclosed that the 12 graduates a year to which the Minister had referred represented in fact an intake of 50 students annually and an annual capacity for absorbing between 30 and 40 graduates on the part of the industry. On 25 October the Minister had an exchange of messages with the Interim Council substantiating the figures put forward by the right honourable member for Higgins, and he drew these messages to the attention of the then Prime Minister. But that right honourable gentleman preferred to ignore them in his statement of 26 October supporting the Minister. It was only after sustained questioning by the then Leader of the Opposition, the then  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  that this additional information was produced. The then Prime Minister told the House on 23 November 1971: 
. I am not the responsible Minister and naturally I could not be expected to know about the receipt of every single letter that is received and I did not know of the receipt of this letter. 
On 24 November he told the House that the letters had been received by a committee which, I think, is under the chairmanship of my colleague, the Treasurer, and also has the Attorney-General on it'. It was clear that day from the expression on the face of the Treasurer - the present Leader of the Opposition - that if the committee existed that was the first he had heard about it. On 2 December the then  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition asked the Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe: 
Did the Prime Minister, before establishing a group of Ministers chaired by the Treasurer to handle the matter of the national film and television training school, advise the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts of his intention to do so? 
He was told by the Prime Minister: 
I advised all Ministers at roughly the same time. In other words, the decision to establish the committee was mine, and, in accordance with normal Cabinet practice, I then advised the Ministers through the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
On 19 April 1972 the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts announced that the Government had received a third report from the Interim Council. He said that on the basis of this report it would establish a film and television training school at a capital cost of $2. 7m and a recurrent cost totalling over 5 years $ 1.61m and that during the establishment process there would be an interim film and television training scheme costing annually $150,600. On 24 August the Minister announced that  Mr Storry  Watson had been appointed as director of the interim training school. The matter rested at that point until the new Government introduced this Bill on 31 May. 
No debate on this matter would be complete if it omitted a tribute to the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  for the vision he showed in the matter of the film and television training school and for the persistence with which he pursued that project. I believe it is safe to say that if the right honourable member for Higgins had not been Prime Minister when the Australian Council for the Arts produced its proposal for the establishment of the film and television training school that project would not have been taken up by the government of the day. I believe equally that if the right honourable member for Higgins had not displayed very great persistence and some political courage in the months immediately following his departure from the Prime Ministership to the Ministry for Defence, the project would certainly have been dropped by his successor. This country is the richer for that vision, persistence and courage. The right honourable member will find a number of places in the history books of this country, not all of which I think he will appreciate or would have chosen himself, but in this one I think he will long take pride. 
One of the disappointing aspects of the debate which took place in the latter months of 1971 about the film and television training school was the very narrow focus given by the government of the day to the potential application of graduates from the school. To have heard the then Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts talk at the time one might have supposed that Australia had no film industry and that there would have been no opening for the graduates of the school other than in our limited number of television studios. In fact the Minister grossly underestimated the capacity both of the television industry and our budding film industry to absorb graduates. But the most depressing feature of his stand was that he completely omitted to give consideration either to the enormous scope which exists for graduates from such an institution in the schools of this country or to the new possibilities for such graduates in areas only now being opened up by technological innovation in the electronics industry. The prospect of the introduction of cable television in this country, operating on the basis of viewer payment at the point of delivery, and the prospect of the introduction of video cassettes open up enormous new fields for the independent Australian producer, writer, craftsman, cameraman - in a word, for every member of the production team. 
Whereas since 1956 a very few television channels, facing very formidable problems in obtaining an adequate return on their heavy capital investment, have dominated the market for television material, new opportunities are now opening up for the production of film and particularly of videotape by individuals and groups who will be able to move into the field on the basis of quite slender capital investments. The film and television training school has a very large contribution to make in ensuring that maximum advantage is taken of these new technological opportunities. 
I should say, too, that one of the encouraging features of education in this country is the way in which, for the first time, the visual media are being taken with a seriousness approaching that which schools have always brought to the printed word. Many of us have thought quite disproportionate in recent years the number of hours the English syllabus of schools at all levels, and for that matter at tertiary institutions, have devoted to the printed word to the exclusion of a critical consideration of the visual media, and chiefly of television, with which the ordinary Australian is much more intimately involved and over which he spends an infinitely greater proportion of his leisure hours. If we are to have the matter of the visual media tackled at a proper level within the English syllabuses of schools we will need a new sort of teacher. It is not enough to expect teachers trained in the traditional discipline of English and having perhaps an amateur's interest in the visual media to undertake the responsibility for inculcating in their pupils a proper critical awareness of the material which is put before them on their television screens. It is necessary, if such a critical appreciation is to be inculcated, for those responsible for the process to have not only an aesthetic understanding of the visual media but also a feel for the technical and technological background of those media. I believe that the film and television training school, in addition to lifting immeasurably the standards of writing, camera work and direction in the television and film industries, will make a very great contribution to the level of teaching in this new area in our schools. Its importance in that respect should not be underestimated. 
All Australians concerned with the arts, with the quality of the media of information in this country and with the relevance of education in this country will salute the step which has been taken by the Government in bringing forward this Bill and establishing this school. Their appreciation will be enhanced if the Government, in addition to the proposal that is already expressed in this Bill, will go further and take up the suggestions put by the right honourable member for Higgins in associating with this school other preparatory institutions for the performing arts. All Australians concerned with the relevance of the media of information and with the relevance of education in this country will salute what has been done. They will deplore the fact that so much might so readily have been done 2 years ago. They will remember the name of the member of this Parliament to whose initiative and determination it should properly be attributed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
How many programs in the series 'Adventure Island' have been purchased by the Australian Broadcasting Commission and what was the average cost of a program in this series. 
What is the average cost of other programs comparable to 'Adventure Island' (a) produced locally and (b) purchased from overseas. 
On how many occasions is the Australian Broadcasting Commission entitled to repeat each 'Adventure Island' program and on how many occasions has each program been repeated to date. 
What is the name of the officer or authority within the Australian Broadcasting Commission responsible for the decision to discontinue purchase of programs in the series 'Adventure Island' and what were the reasons given for this decision. 
Is it the policy of the Australian Broadcasting Commission that imaginative material of the type exemplified by 'Adventure Island' should be a permanent feature of its television for children; if so, what is the name and the nature of the program or programs chosen to replace 'Adventure Island'. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the response of the Government of the day to each of the requests- relating to family planning itemised by him in his reply to me on 30 May 1973 (Hansard, page 2923). 
It does not seem to me to be useful at this stage of the debate either for me to restate in my own words and with additional illustrations, the speech that we heard from the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  8 days ago, or for that matter to reply to the rehashing to which we have just listened of the speech we heard from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  last night. One of the aspects of the Budget to which I had expected that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who has just resumed his seat, would have referred in a positive spirit was the fact that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs has had its appropriation for this year lifted from $46m to $89m. This is a development I expected the former Minister to greet and set aside from the body of the Budget which he otherwise roundly condemns. 
This Budget is being brought down at a time when the Woodward Committee which is looking into the subject of Aboriginal land rights has just presented its interim report. Land rights are a matter to which over the months ahead the Parliament will be paying some attention. In the circumstances, rather than retrace the ground which has been covered already so many times in this debate, I want to address myself to the question of Aboriginal land rights within the framework of the appropriation brought down in the Budget. I want to say something about the only project of this kind launched so far. 
On 24 July 1971, the Governor of Victoria,  Sir Rohan  Delacombe, handed over to the  Chairman  of the Lake Tyers Aboriginal Trust,  Mr Charlie  Carter, title deeds to 4,000 acres of land. The Governor said at the time that his action marked a turning point in aboriginal affairs. The Victorian Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Meagher,  said: 'We give you the land with the hope and expectation that you will hold and cherish it' and  Mr Carter  said: This is the most wonderful thing that has ever happened to anyone'. But the Country Party member for East Gippsland,  Mr Bruce  Evans - the man on the spot said: 
The plan to allow the residents of Lake Tyers to 
Tun the reserve as a trust and to stand on their own feet has failure built into it. One third of the adult trust members are pensioners. The remainder are those who have been unable to respond to Government encouragement in years gone by to move out  into the community, so naturally have at the best extremely, limited experience in or knowledge of farming operations and probably a complete absence of knowledge of the much more vital problems of farm economics. Further, with at the most four exceptions, all the adults are heavily addicted to drink, and are in fact extremely sick people. 
The Victorian Ministry for Aboriginal Affairs responded to  Mr Evans'  remarks by initiating against him in the name of Trust members a writ for libel. It responded by appointing Europeans to 2 positions on the committee of management for Lake Tyers and to the position of farm manager. The writ was withdrawn when a number of the nominal plaintiffs declared publicly that they had neither anticipated nor desired the course of action taken in their names. The appointments have been a failure, despite the best efforts of the manager, whose undoubted professional competence, sincerity and good-will have not equipped him to help the people of Lake Tyers to overcome their formidable social problems, or rise to the challenge of community-building with which they find themselves faced. Today the man to whom the title deeds of the property were handed,  Mr Carter,  is a broken man, thinking about undergoing treatment for alcoholism at Larundel after serving 3 terms of imprisonment for offences associated with that sickness. The land which was handed over by  Mr Meagher  is being bought back by his successor  Mr Dickie  on behalf of the Victorian Government. The high hopes expressed by the Governor of Victoria,  Sir Rohan  Delacombe, have come to nothing. 
Whereas shares in the Lake Tyers Aboriginal Trust were assigned 2 years ago to 33 adults and 58 children, the number of shareholders currently living at Lake Tyers is 19 adults and 15 children. The number of shareholders who are willing to occupy their property has fallen over a 2 year period by twothirds. Shareholders with scrip worth up to $250,000 have been driven by despair not only to give up the occupancy of their property but in some instances to sell up their equity in it. The Secretary of the Trust,  Mrs Johnson,  was advised in a letter from the Acting Director of Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Renkin,  dated 22 May this year, that the Ministry had become 'a registered holder of shares in the Lake Tyers Aboriginal Trust on behalf of the Crown', and expected therefore to be represented at future Trust meetings. The people of Lake Tyers were visited only last week by an officer of the Ministry endea vouring to buy up still more shares. These facts illustrate clearly the Midas touch of failure which Victorian governments bring to all their dealings with the Aborigines of East Gippsland. They show why Lake Tyers has become a source of hope not for the Aboriginal people but for racists and critics of the land rights movement. 
The Commonwealth Development Bank advised the Committee for the Commonwealth Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises on 29 December 1970 that even the most feasible development program for Lake Tyers would have marginal prospects and depend for its success upon management of a high order. In choosing to ignore this advice and instead to hand over Lake Tyers to a group of Aborigines described by their own representative in the Victorian Parliament as having 'at best extremely limited experience in or knowledge of farming operations and probably a complete absence of knowledge of the more vital problems of farm economies', the Victorian Government showed a cynical disregard for the cause of Aboriginal land rights to which its spokesmen at the same time were paying lip service. The Government raised expectations both among Aborigines and in other sections of the community which it knew could not be satisfied. The first  Chairman  of the Lake Tyers Aboriginal Trust,  Mr Charlie  Carter, told reporters at the time of the handover: 
I feel a tourist area at Lake Tyers would be a winner. But as we don't have enough money for its development we will lease some of our land. This will bring in extra income and eventually the land that has been cleared and the buildings that have been erected will be ours. Then we will bring in more of our people and so on until all the land has been cleared and is productive. We need more people so we can develop both culturally and economically. And I'd like to see our own cricket and football teams giving the rest of the district a hiding. 
Two years have gone by since  Mr Carter  articulated so clearly the aspirations of his people. In that period  Mr Carter  has served gaol sentences for drunken driving, larceny and destruction of railway property, and currently he is at Lake Tyers waiting on the result of his application for an invalid pension and, as I have mentioned already, considering entering Larundel for treatment as an alcoholic.  Mr Carter  is 41 years of age. 
The second  Chairman  of the Trust,  Mr Murray  Bull, said shortly after assuming office in October 1971  -  that is, within 5 months of the inception of the project - that the handover of Lake Tyers had been premature since 'we haven't got the knowledge yet', but he affirmed quite bravely, 'I think we can make a go of it.'  Mr Bull  who even now is only 25 years old, resigned within a year both as  Chairman  and as a management committee member and has left Lake Tyers for a job at Longford. The current  Chairman  of the Trust,  Mr Con  Edwards, is a 71 -year-old invalid pensioner who does his best for the people of Lake Tyers in the circumstances as he finds them and within the limitations of a bad heart. Not one of these men is a 'nohoper' but each in turn has been landed with the responsibility for an undertaking which had failure built in at the outset, and each in his own way and in his own turn has broken under the burden of that responsibility. 
The number of Aborigines on the 7-man Lake Tyers committee of management has fallen from 5 to 2, and great difficulty is being experienced in finding replacements for those who have resigned. The prevailing despair of the community was expressed earlier this year by one of the few remaining active shareholders,  Mr Freddie  Johnson, who said: 'It's going backwards. There's not enough work around here and the pensioners aren't interested in the farm. I don't know what's going to happen.' More than half the 36 adult Aborigines resident at present on the Lake Tyers property are living on social security payments or waiting for approval as social security beneficiaries. There are jobs for only 4 adults on the farm itself and the 5 young people between 15 and 17 years of age neither work nor attend school. The aspirations, determination and self-respect of the Aborigines of Lake Tyers, no less than the health of Aboriginal children throughout East Gippsland- 
If I can encourage the honourable member to pay a visit to East Gippsland some time in the near future, I think he will see that an improvement is under way. These things have been sacrificed to the doctrinaire determination on the part of the Victorian Ministry for Aboriginal Affairs to 'make the Aborigine stand on his own two feet'. They have been sacrificed to the dogma that Aborigines must run before they have finished learning to walk. 
Early this year men with a semi-trailer stole more than 100 new-born lambs from the Lake Tyers paddocks. Early this year  Mr Carter's  mother told reporters: 
Things are bad. This is private property and every day and night there are these white blokes coming in here, and, you know what I mean - taking the women out. Not the younger girls, but the teenagers - taking them out in cars. 
Questioned last year in the Victorian Legislative Assembly,  .Mr Hamer,  now the Premier, told  Mr Evans  that police from Lakes Entrance were frequently called to deal with drunken brawling and damage to property at Lake Tyers and that the  Chairman  and other Trust members had complained to the police about Europeans taking alcohol into Lake Tyers for the purpose of procuring young women. A writer for 'Nation Review' was told by the railway porter at Nowa Nowa that the amount of wine consigned weekly to a local motel had risen from 5 to 25 cases. He was told by a local police superintendent that the incidence of crimes associated with alcohol had increased since the handover of the Lake Tyers property to the Trust. These are characteristics not, as has been suggested sometimes, of a community nearing the end of heartbreak, but of a community for which heartbreak has become a way of life. Having lost respect for themselves, the Lake Tyers people are denied respect and exploited by the wider community of which they are a part. 
Last year  Mr Carter  was hit on the head and lay for 3 days in a coma because there was no car on the property at the time and therefore no way of getting him to hospital. When an ambulance called to take a child to hospital for regular treatment, the driver refused to take  Mr Carter  as well, and only grudgingly agreed to arrange for another ambulance to be sent out for him. When  Mr Carter  reached Bairnsdale Hospital he was given a week's treatment for stomach ulcers before the authorities became concerned enough over his failure to recover consciousness to dispatch him to Melbourne, where a 2-week old brain haemorrhage was at last diagnosed. Even then treatment was held up because the Bairnsdale Hospital authorities had forgotten or not bothered to send on a case history or indeed any information other than the patient's name. Whereas frequent false alarms have made the Bairnsdale ambulance service reluctant to visit Lake Tyers in response to calls from Aborigines, it is th, policy of the Victorian Ministry that such calls should not be made on behalf of Aborigines by other people. It is not from a book or a film but from grim experience that the Aborigines of Lake Tyers have learned the meaning of 'Catch-22'. 

 Mr Carter's wife is dead, and he went to prison leaving his 14-year old daughter in charge of 5 younger children. The family hunted possums, scrounged other food where they could and slept where they could find beds until the local policewoman became aware of their predicament and said they would have to be made wards of the State. Friends arranged instead for the younger children to be fostered away from Lake Tyers, despite the insistence of a high official of the Ministry that they should be returned to the care of a 70-year old grandmother who was not in a position either physically or financially to accept the responsibility. The eldest girl also accepted foster care for a time, but then hitch-hiked back to Lake Tyers so that she could be there when her father got out of prison. She lived by killing rabbits with sticks and stealing cabbages and potatoes until starvation and an infestation of scabies drove her back to the foster home. Nobody commented on her 8-month absence from school, because it is taken for granted by the Ministry that Aboriginal children will be kept home not only by their frequent illnesses but also bv jobs like bean-picking. 
The predicament of Lake Tyers is symbolised by the 3 Chairmen who have held office within a 2-year period and had their spirits broken in doing so, by the management committee members who have resigned their positions and the shareholders who have gone away or who now rely on the Department of Social Security for their incomes and upon alcohol as a substitute for self-respect. It is symbolised by broken-down farm machinery and the bus upon which Trust members depend for their link with the world outside being garaged in Bairnsdale because there is nobody at Lake Tyers authorised to drive it. It is symbolised by the Ministry sending out its officials to buy back from Aborigines the shares with which they were issued only 2 short years ago. It is symbolised by houses deteriorating for lack of maintenance and the wrecked school building which 2 years ago was to have become a community centre. It is symbolised by  Mr Carter  waiting for an invalid pension and the chance to dry out in Larundel, at the settlement where 2 years ago he planned to create a new home and a new hope for his people. 
Shares in the Lake Tyers Aboriginal Trust acquired in recent months by the Victorian Ministry for Aboriginal Affairs must now be reassigned to Aborigines who can make good those deficiencies in skills and expertise and leadership by which the Trust has so far found itself crippled. There is a need in particular for new Trust members trained in the techniques of community action and development and able to generate a new enthusiasm among the people of Lake Tyers and to crystallise the ideas for development of their property to which so far they have given only vague expression. The approach for a detailed feasibility study of the future development of Lake Tyers which has been made by the Trust to the Australian Government should be accepted immediately and backed up immediately with the resources of the Capital Fund. Arrangements should be made for the enrolment in Australian Government restraining programs of those residents of Lake Tyers - particularly women - who at present are unemployed dr under-employed, and for provision of the necessary training facilities either at Lake Tyers or in nearby centres. An Aboriginal motor mechanic should be recruited or trained to maintain the vehicles and machinery of the Trust and bring back the bus which is garaged at present in Bairnsdale. There must be better provision for the health care of the community and better incentives for its young people over the school leaving age to persist with their' education. It is in this way alone that we can make up to some extent for the humiliations, frustrations and disappointments of which this small, unlucky settlement has been made a victim. 
Not the least welcome of the provisions in the Budget to which this House is now giving consideration is the emphasis which is given to the Government's sense of responsibility to the original inhabitants of this country. The honourable member for Mackellar, who preceded me in this debate, carved out for himself in the political history of this country a reputation for a sensitivity and a concern for the affairs of the Aboriginal people of Australia for which there was no precedent. I believe that in this Budget we are building on foundations which he laid. The only way open in this important matter for future governments is forward. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What was the total (a) full-time and (b) part-time enrolment in (i) each college of advanced education and (ii) all colleges of advanced education in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth in 1971 and 1972 (Hansard, 2 March 1972, page 572). 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to the recent statement by the Leader of the Opposition that the Liberal Party in determining the payment for doctors' services advocated the establishment of a standing tribunal to review fees annually while taking into account movement in costs during the previous year? Is this the proposal which the Gorton Government put to the Australian Medical Association in 1970 and which .was rejected by the Association? Is this proposal more acceptable now to the AMA and has the Minister any reason to suppose that the AMA has moved towards a position where it will accept fee fixation on the same basis as is accepted by other mem*bers of the community? 

 - -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, by the honourable member for Corangamite. My question to which he referred to his personal explanation quoted exactly from the report of the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  which appeared in the second city edition of the Melbourne 'Herald' on 17 August 1973. The words were those of the Leader of the Opposition. 
Australians listening to the broadcast of this debate and those who read thereafter about its content will draw their own conclusions from the pre-occupation which the Opposition has shown in this first debate on the Karmel report with the 105 category A schools and their inmates. It is more than a little nauseating to hear the sons of privileged and the fathers of privileged advocating the perpetuation of privilege with an enthusiasm they never brought to the interests of those children of this country who have always been disadvantaged and would have remained disadvantaged if honourable members opposite had remained in office. It is hard to believe, listening to Opposition supporters holding forth this morning, that they have in fact read the Karmel report. 
Let me for the information of the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  bring this debate back into focus by putting the subject where it belongs - with the children who for so long have put up with a ramshackle, hopeless situation of education not only in government schools but in parochial schools conducted by the Catholic Church and for that matter in non-systemic, non government schools. Let us remember that while the best of schools in this country are nonsystemic, non-Catholic schools so also is the worst off school in this country, one which has an input of 40 units of educational resources as opposed to 270 for the most privileged schools. I refer to page 45 of the Karmel report. I will quote from section 4.55 for the benefit of the honourable member for Warringah because it is an experience of a type of school with which he would be totally unfamiliar. It reads: 
Committee members were impressed by the concentrated nature of the difficulties faced by many schools, and their need for supplementary resources, both physical and human. A particular school situated in a high-density housing area where land is so highly priced that back yards are virtually nonexistent, public recreational facilities few and streets too busy to serve as playing areas, may supply an example to make the point. The combined infant and primary school, its buildings dating from 1878- 
And it is not to be compared with Melbourne Grammar which was put up in roughly the same year - housed nearly 800 children, more than 40 per cent of them from non English-speaking families, and 33 of them Aboriginal, on a site of 1.2 acres. The site was being extended at a cost of one and three-quarter million dollars. Buildings covered half the area, and both buildings and yard were poorly maintained. Toilet facilities, shelter sheds and art and sewing facilities were archaic and even sordid. There were two full-time migrant teachers, but no regular teacher spoke any of the languages used in the homes of most migrant children. As a result, communication with parents was difficult; the services of an employee of a nearby bank had to be used for language interpretation in emergencies. The number of transient pupils was high. Social problems, including the control of contagious diseases of poverty, claimed a good deal of the time of both the principal and infant mistress, the only two members of staff without full-time teaching responsibilities. Ancillary staff was limited to one librarian, one part-time clerical assistant and one part-time teacher aide. Class sizes were normal for a school of its size, but learning problems were greater than normal. Only 10 per cent of the intake into infant classes had attended pre-school, and among pupils passing out at the end of sixth grade reading retardation was common. Of the 90 pupils who completed primary schooling at the end of 1972, none gained admission to selective high schools serving their area. Parental involvement in the school was almost nonexistent. Raffles organised by teachers supplemented the standard $3.60 per pupil allowance for equipment from the Education Department. Vandalism was common, and the school was securely locked at the end of the day, after-hours activities being considered too risky. Crowds of migrant mothers gathered on the footpath to collect their crildren, but did not enter the premises except for specific .purposes. 
If there is to be passioned debate in this country surely that is the sort of school it should be about rather than schools which almost without exception honourable members on the Opposition side themselves attended and to which without exception they send their own children. They never knew what conditions were like themselves. They opted out of the system years ago and left the vast majority of children in Catholic and government schools to rot. It is this imbalance that we are now starting to put right and that is the process which is being greeted by the Opposition with a barrage of criticism. Sickening is the only word for their priorities. This debate has been bedevilled by talk about wealthy schools. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  compounded the misconception when he interjected earlier today about the place of Xavier College in the categorisation of schools prepared by the Karmel Committee. Real estate is not education. The two things are not the same nor does the second follow the first. The broad acres and handsome buildings of Xavier College are no measure of the proportion of recurrent resources devoted by that school to the education of the students who attend it. It is not a question of what the assets or the debts of &lt;a particular school may be, the question is what are the resources devoted to the education of the students who attend that school. That is a very different matter and that is the thing that does matter. 
We have been told that the index was compiled on the basis of 100 to the average government school. The average Catholic school can devote an input of only 70 to the needs of its students. As I have said before, the range of non-Catholic non-systemic schools goes as low as 40 units and at the other end we have those schools that can devote 270 units per annum to the interests of their students. It was that to which the Karmel Committee addressed itself when it pointed out that uniform per capita grants would be an expensive way of bringing about acceptable standards in all schools and would unduly delay their attainment. The schools that members of the Oppostion are speaking for this morning already enjoy standards which are equal to or greater than those standards to which other schools can aspire by 1979. Members opposite have the hide to advocate that these schools should be assisted on the same basis as other schools. 
That remark summarises the crassness of the attitude of the Opposition. The honourable member for Balaclava believes that we should delay the attainment of equality of opportunity in Australia so that the children of the electors he represents can go on enjoying an input of recurrent resources of 270 units, while the average student at a government school has an input of 100 and the average student at a Catholic school has 70. Within the general area of education, for which the Opposition has appointed itself spokesman - the non-Catholic, non-systemic schools - the input of recurrent resources goes as low as 40. The honourable member for Balaclava seems to me to be putting forward a truly monstrous proposition, and I am surprised that the honourable member for Balaclava has the hide to put it forward in this place. For years we listened to this sort of thing from the Opposition when it was in government. Regularly, the spokesman on education for the Labor Party pleaded with the government of the day to recognise the needs of disadvantaged children in Australia. The Migrant Task Force Committee of Victoria, in its report which we have just received, stated: effectively only 20 per cent of the children in the schools surveyed who need English tuition are receiving enough of it, and 
In effect there is a blatant denial of the child's right to a meaningful and fulfilling educational experience. 
Education of children in the English language was a matter for which the former Government accepted nominal responsibility. It washed its hands of the disadvantaged Australian children. It was prepared to let them go on indefinitely in their state of underprivilege and it was prepared to maintain indefinitely the gap between privileged, high quality education in Australia and the sort of education with which most people have to put up. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  mentioned the extraordinary delay that took place in Victoria between the date on which the copies of the Karmel Committee report were available and the date on which they were sent to government schools. The delay occurred simply because the Victorian Director of Education,  Dr Shears,  saw fit to hold back from the schools of Victoria the copies of the report until he could prepare a commentary to be sent with it. 

 Mr MacKELLAR (Warringah) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Honourable members on my right have frequently referred to the shortage of doctors in country areas and to the very real anxiety which exists in country areas about the services of a doctor being available in a case of emergency. That problem is no longer confined to country areas but is spreading very rapidly in urban areas and particularly in outer suburban areas such as those that are covered by the Casey electorate. The lives of families in those areas and in particular the lives of elderly people there are overshadowed by the fear that in the case of serious illness people will not be able to get in touch with a doctor, or if indeed they are able to get in touch with a doctor he will not be prepared to answer thencall. As more and more general practitioners join together in group practices and shield themselves from out-of-hours calls behind a barrier of recorded messages, emergency telephone numbers and mobile locum services the old feeling of security which arose from ready access to a family doctor is being lost. 
Spokesmen for the Australian Medical Association and for the General Practitioners Society refer repeatedly to the importance of the doctor-patient relationship and assert that under the new health insurance arrangements proposed by the Australian Government that relationship will become a thing of the past. They emphasise the importance of maintaining a high quality of medical care and assert that under the Australian Government's health insurance program quality will be a thing of the past. I rise tonight to let the House know something of the quality of medical care as it was found a few weeks ago for some of my constituents, to let the House know what the doctor-patient relationship was worth to an 81-year old man in his hour of need. This man's family was woken at 1 a.m. when he first became ill and again at 3 a.m. when he was clearly very ill indeed. The son - I will call him  Mr Smith  - rang the local clinic at which the family had been patients over the last 23 years and was told by a recorded voice the name and telephone number of a doctor who is not associated with the clinic but who was said to be available for emergency service. 

 Mr Smith rang this doctor, emphasising the urgency of the situation and was asked by the doctor what was the nature of the difficulty. When he was unable to answer this question other than by emphasising again the seriousness of his father's condition, the doctor refused to attend.  Mr Smith  told the doctor that he would be obliged to ring the police for assistance, and the doctor replied: "You do that'. 

 Mr Smith rang the police, who suggested that he should get in touch with the Emergency Medical Service. He rang the Emergency Medical Service. The girl on the telephone was unable to find a doctor but helped to arrange for an ambulance. An ambulance arrived within a few minutes but, as the attendants were carrying the old man into it, he died. The attendants rang the doctor about a death certificate and were told to call in at his surgery for one on their way to the city. They said this was impossible as the doctor had not seen the dead man and that he would have to come out immediately. The doctor arrived at the house within 10 minutes and the certificate was prepared. 
As human beings we may ask ourselves what sort of person it was who could arrive at a home within 10 minutes to fill out a death certificate but who was not prepared to attend when his presence might have made that certificate unnecessary. As a community we must ask ourselves why a clinic which carries on its gatepost the brass plates of 6 practitioners cannot arrange for at least one of those practitioners to be available to patients in the event of an emergency. We must ask ourselves why it was necessary for  Mr Smith  to make no fewer than 4 telephone calls in order to obtain even inappropriate assistance in the form of an ambulance. The pretensions of the Australian Medical Association and the General Practitioners Society to be able to devise a better system of health insurance than that of the Australian Government might be taken more seriously if those organisations were to display more competence in respect to arrangements which are properly within their sphere of responsibility. 
I am glad the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  has been present in the House tonight to hear my brief remarks. I noticed today, on reading through an AMA gazette, a report that was made recently by a member of the AMA Council,  Dr Lugg,  in Perth in which he emphasised the Association's unwillingness to participate in negotiations with the Australian Government on the matter of health insurance. I think the lull in correspondence and conversation between the Australian Government and the AMA would be put to good use if it were to be used to negotiate a new set of arrangements to ensure that Australians not only in suburban areas but throughout the country had some reasonable guarantee that a medical attendant will be available to them in the event of an emergency. I think these negotiations could well be broadened to take up the matter of services provided by doctors in country areas and the distribution of doctors throughout 
Australia, about which we heard something only a week ago in the report of the Australian Universities Commission on medical education. If the medical profession is unwilling to arrange these matters itself, governments must step in and fill the breach. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security whether he is aware that material critical of the Australian health insurance program is being circulated to primary schools throughout Australia by a body describing itself as the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia. Can he tell the House the status of this body, how its activities are financed and, if the finance involves the use of contribution income, whether this is an approved use of such income under the National Health Act? 
I move- (1) That in the opinion of this House, a Federal Judge should be appointed as sole Commissioner In accordance with the provisions of the Royal Commissions Act to inquire into the social, educational and legal aspects of sexual relationships with particular emphasis on the concepts of responsible sexuality, responsible parenthood and family life, such inquiry to investigate and evaluate the following matters in Australia and comparable countries and make recommendations for areas within the jurisdiction of the laws of the Australian Parliament: 
The extent and effectiveness of existing sex education programs in providing a sound basis in the fundamentals of sexuality and as a prerequisite for the understanding of reproductive potential and voluntary fertility control; 
the extent and adequacy of existing birth control studies in medical schools as a means of providing comprehensive medical training in contraceptive techniques and encouraging acceptance by the medical profession of its responsibilities in the field of contraceptive counselling; 
the provision, adequacy and effectiveness of existing fertility control facilities, such as family planning clinics; educational and motivational information on fertility control; and methods of evaluation of all contraceptive techniques; 
in the event of failed contraception and consequent unplanned, unwanted pregnancies, the social, psychological and medical results of termination and failure to terminate such pregnancies, and adequacy and effectiveness of existing medico-legal determinations in relation to termination of pregnancy, including the incidence of such terminations, the factors influencing their occurrence, the adequacy of medical training in, and evaluation of methods of termination and the consultative rights of the family and other parties to the pregnancy, and 
the provision, adequacy and viability of pregnancy support services, adoption services, counselling and other forms of assistance for families, mothers and mothers-to-be, given the social, economic, medical and social welfare problems in which they may find themselves involved. 
That all matters relevant to these problems be investigated with regard to the sanctity and preservation of life, and to enabling the maximum number of persons to act according to their own religious, social and moral convictions. 
Sexual ignorance, sexual irresponsibility and sexual exploitation are imposing a heavy burden upon our community in both economic and human terms. Two-thirds of pregnancies which occur in this country are unplanned and a third of them are terminated by abortion. One child in every 5 is conceived out of wedlock and each week up to 1,000 children are subjected to cruelty of a criminal kind. Our failure to come to grips as a community with our sexual behaviour and its consequences is reflected in the fact that between 1963 and 1972 the incidence of births occurring out of wedlock rose from 5.71 per 100 to 9.68 per 100. This situation is reflected in articles currently being contributed to a Victorian newspaper by a former senior member of the Victoria Police Force who was imprisoned along with 2 of his colleagues for a criminal association with backyard abortionists. 
It is reflected in human tragedies such as that of the father who plunged the feet of his 9-month-old baby into boiling water; the mother who murdered her 3-year-old child by beating him, sitting on him, and finally putting him in an electric oven; and the couple who pulled out by the roots the fingernails of their 5-year-old child. We are faced by a rising tide of human misery for which our present social welfare, health and law enforcement agencies can provide no remedy. The extent to which we can overcome these problems will be the measure of our maturity as a nation and our elevation of reason and common sense over ignorance, superstition, prejudice and fear. Honourable members made it clear earlier this year that they were appalled by the incidence of abortion in our community. We should be no less appalled by the social, economic, medical and social wefare problems which make of pregnancy not a human joy but an economic disaster for many families, mothers and mother-to-be and by the shortcomings in sex education and family planning services of which abortion is but one sympton. We should be no less appalled by the frequency with which unplanned pregnancies and unwanted births occur, by the disproportionate share of this burden which falls on those sections of the community which are least able to carry it and by its tragic consequences for many an unwelcome child. 
I make clear the position by reference to statistics drawn from official publications and from academic studies and surveys. Whereas 87 per cent of married couples of childbearing age practise family planning, only 40 per cent rely for protection upon effective techniques such as oral contraception or the use of an intra-uterine device. Among that great majority of couples who constantly run the risk of an unplanned pregnancy, 1 per cent rely for protection upon douching, which has a failure rate of 31 per cent; 2 per cent upon spermicides, which have a failure rate of 20 per cent; 5 per cent upon diaphragms, which have a failure rate of 12 per cent; 9 per cent upon condoms, which have a failure rate of 14 per cent; 14 per cent upon the ovulation method, which has a failure rate of 24 per cent and 19 per cent upon withdrawal, which has a failure rate of 18 per cent. 
Whereas among couples from professional, managerial and white collar backgrounds 37 per cent rely for protection upon oral contraceptives and intra-uterine devices and only 2 per cent for protection upon withdrawal, among couples from unskilled backgrounds 36 per cent rely for protection upon withdrawal and only 15 per cent rely upon oral contraceptives and intra-uterine devices. Whereas in South Australia in 1971, of the women who were aborted 43 per cent had never used any form of contraception and a further 34 per cent were not doing so on the occasion when they became pregnant, 74 per cent of the women who were aged under 20 had never used any form of contraception and a further 16 per cent were not doing so on the occasion when they became pregnant. These figures explain the fact that although unplanned pregnancies are much too prevalent in all sections of our community, they are most prevalent among the poor and the young. Whereas 5 out of every 10 Australian children are born as a result of unplanned pregnancies, among low income families 6 out of every 10 children are unplanned. Whereas only 11 per cent of the mothers of 2-child families would rather not have had their last-born child, 28 per cent of the mothers of 3-child families, 41 per cent of the mothers of 4-child families and 45 per cent of the mothers of 5-child families would rather not have done so. Whereas one in every 10 Australian children is born outside marriage, among women under the age of 21 one birth in every 3 occurs outside marriage and among Women aged under 21 years 2 out of every 3 children are born less than 9 months after marriage. 
The 'Medical Journal of Australia' on 3 February this year pointed out that: 
The vast majority of young girls seeking an abortion had sexual relations for some months at least before conception occurred. Some had tried to obtain help but had been refused by the medical profession. Others had not sought advice because they did not know to whom they should go for assistance. 
We should all acknowledge that the situation with which we find ourselves confronted is one of appalling ignorance and irresponsibility on the part of a great number of couples, compounded by an equal, if not greater, irresponsibility on the part of the society to which we all belong. We should acknowledge that by failing as a society to make proper arrangements for matters such as sex education and family planning, we have allowed ignorance and irresponsibility to make rich men of many abortionists, parents of many couples who have neither the inclination nor the temperament for parenthood and battered babies of many children of whom it can be said quite literally that they would have been better off if they had never been born. In the 'Medical Journal' of 20 March 1971  Dr Bishop  wrote: 
The number of children at risk appears to be increasing - increasing to the point where it would appear that their plight and number constitute the largest single public health problem awaiting solution. 
The Medical Superintendent of Brisbane's Mater Children's Hospital was quoted in the Sunday Mail' of 20 June 1971 as saying: 
Most of these cases are terribly tragic - some of the babies are treated just like animals. Children, beaten by a parent in a fit of wild rage, come in with broken bones, and skulls, and covered in bruises. We know for certain that about 6 baby patients admitted here every year are victims of beatings, but there are undoubtedly 3 or 4 times this number who we suspect have been maltreated by their parents. 
Only last Saturday the 'Medical Journal of Australia' listed battered babies, emotional and physical diseases in children, juvenile delinquency, marital upsets, divorce and depressive illness as aspects of what is called the enormous social and medical problems associated with unplanned children'. The 'Medical Journal' concluded its leading article with the words: 
Let us hope that Australia wakes up to their own problems of [population control and tackles them honestly and effectively. 
It is in the same hope that I move today for an inquiry into the social, educational and legal aspects of sexual relationships with particular emphasis on the concept of responsible sexuality, responsible parenthood and family life. Judicial inquiries, like royal commissions, are a means of obtaining information which would otherwise be unavailable, of drawing to public attention facts which would otherwise be neglected and of reconciling points of view which would otherwise remain opposed. 
I move for an inquiry in the conviction that by reasoning together we can come to agree upon ways of developing responsible patterns of sexual behaviour in our community. I move for an inquiry so that individual Australians, voluntary agencies, local government, the States and the Australian Government can each give their views on what is to be done and each indicate the part they are prepared to play. We do not have to settle for arrangements under which the responsibility for sex education, which parents increasingly fail to discharge on an adequate basis, is left instead to secondary school biology teachers who treat it in so perfunctory a fashion that the average mark out of 7 for the human reproduction question on last year's Victorian Higher School Certificate biology paper was 2.3. The chief examiner commented that it was the worst answered question on the paper. Nor should we suppose that the need for sex education would be met even by teaching excellently the anatomy and physiology of reproduction as they are set out in the average biology course. Earlier this year, the Director-General of Education in New South Wales,  Mr Buggie,  was quoted as saying: 
There is a need to remove sex education from the secretive, distorted and often bewildered processes of the peer group, from the unhealthy distortions of commercialised sex and from the over-simplified approach which can dangerously isolate sex education from the full development of personality and responsibility. 
The South Australian Director-General.  Mr Jones,  said: 
The whole Swedish sex education program is based on the respect and respectability of one human being for another, and I would like to see our sex education develop that attitude. 
Despite  these enlightened statements on the part of senior spokesmen for State education systems, Australia remains in matters of sex education among the most backward nations in the developed world. The Australian Science Education Project has never recovered from the insistence of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  when he was the Minister for Education and Science, that as far as sex is concerned the role of schools is . not to teach but to preach. The Australian Science Education Project was associated in its first and second trials with a special teacher education course, but that course has now been dropped. 
Recently in Sweden, where sex education has been taught for 20 years and taught throughout the school system as an obligatory subject for 10 years, I talked to a distinguished family psychologist and sociologist,  Mrs Birgitta  Linner. I was warned by  Mrs Linner  that if we did not prepare our teachers for sex education their inhibitions might make their guidance worse than no guidance at all. How we are to train the teachers, prepare the courses and manufacture the sort of teaching materials for which Sweden has earned a worldwide reputation are all matters in which I would hope to see a judicial inquiry take an interest under its first term of reference. Another function of the inquiry in respect of this reference would be to foster a nationwide concensus on the need for sex education of the kind which can respond with sensitivity to what has been described by one sociologist as: 
The desperate yearning of the young for acceptance and identity, the need to be meaningful to someone else even for a moment without implication of a pledge of undying fealty and  foreverness 
We do not have to settle for arrangements under which the responsibility for family planning services falls almost exclusively upon community organisations which until this year have been denied Australian Government support. On 30 May this year the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  listed for me no fewer than 1 1 aspects of family planning over which approaches had been made repeatedly to the Australian Government. I seek leave to have that list incorporated in Hansard. 
On one hand the Secretary's statement proposed that family planning consultation and advice should be provided without charge for everybody who chooses to take advantage of them, that general practitioners should be encouraged to undertake more family planning work and that hospitals should offer more family planning advice. The upshot of this decision is that every municipality in Britain before long will be offering its own family planning services in cooperation with the Family Planning Association. On the other hand the statement proposed that charges should be made for the supply of contraceptives to all but a limited number of impoverished or medically at risk women. I hope that in this last matter a judicial inquiry might accept the view of the House of Lords which twice passed by overwhelming majorities amendments calling for the supply, of. contraceptives without charge. 
I hope to see a judicial inquiry take: note of the experience Of the city of Aberdeen where family planning services were taken oyer by local government from a voluntary agency in 1946, expanded greatly in the early 1960s and reorganised in 1967 so that advice and contraceptives could be provided without charge. A recent report notes that in Aberdeen the benefits of free and energetic family planning 'have included notable reductions in the birth rate, the fertility rate, high risk maternities, illegitimate birth rate and unwanted pregnancies, while Aberdeen has one of the lowest infant  mortality rates in the world'. The only reason we have tolerated our present inadequate family planning services so long is that we have been ignorant as a community of the great advantages conferred by services of a higher standard upon cities such as Aberdeen. An inquiry is needed not only to sweep away that ignorance but also to test the assumptions upon which our present attitudes to family planning are based and to open our eyes to the process of innovation which is going on in countries comparable with our own. 
Medical research workers to whom I talked in Sweden expressed new doubts about the ovulation method of contraception arising from new evidence that there are circumstances in which ovulation is triggered outside its normal place in the menstrual cycle. Research workers in Copenhagen told me that field trials of a once-a-month contraceptive, which is administered nasally, have been completed in Prague. At the London offices of the International Planned Parenthood Federation - which, as I have already mentioned, is supported by the Government - I was shown minute springloaded clips which hold out for women who might otherwise have had to undergo surgical sterilisation, the option of a reliable, readily reversible occlusion of the fallopian tubes. These are all developments relevant to the problems with which Australian couples find themselves confronted. They are all matters with which the sort of inquiry for which I am moving would necessarily be concerned. This inquiry like the royal commission for which I moved in May is not concerned with abortion in particular but with responsible sexual behaviour, the welfare of children and their parents and the shortcomings in fertility control of which abortion is one aspect. It is an inquiry which gives regard, as I and my seconder emphasise in the final paragraph, both to the sanctity of human life and to enabling as many people as possible to act in accordance with their own religious, social and moral convictions. 
Yesterday honourable members received a letter from the National Right to Life Association which concluded with a demand that this motion should be rejected 'either outrightly or by the acceptance by the Parliament of an amendment which would broaden its terms so as to allow for a truly meaningful investigation'. Neither honourable members, the electorates to which they are responsible nor the victims and potential victims of un planned pregnancies within those electorates will be deceived by manoeuvres of this kind. Any amendment which seeks to insert into the terms of reference matters such as housing, child minding facilities, pre-school facilities, domestic assistance for families and working mothers, the social status of women in the community and other assistance to women employed in industry will be seen as an attempt to replace an investigation of specific, pressing and practical problems with an inquiry into the whole human condition. It will be a fraud and it will be seen as a fraud by the people to whom we are all answerable. Equally, an inquiry which omits abortion will be as irrelevant as an inquiry into abortion alone, and will be seen as such. 
I was disturbed in May when officers of the National Right to Life Association went behind the backs of many hundreds of their members who were urging me by letter and telegram to record my vote on the Medical Practices Clarification Bill, and suggested instead that I should absent myself from the House. I was disturbed again when, instead of supporting my call for a royal commission to secure action against abortion as I had expected, those officers organised opposition to the commission. I was disturbed and finally disillusioned when I became aware of the true status of the evidence submitted to  Mrs Justice  Lane's committee of inquiry into the Abortion Act 'by people described in newspaper reports as Drs Arthur and Margaret Wynn, circulated to honourable members by the Right of Life Association and quoted again by the Association in yesterday's letter.  (Extension of time granted.)  Like other honourable members, I quoted in good faith from the Wynn document on 10 May, but when I raised it recently with responsible and,  I  think, impartial people in Britain, I found that it was not taken seriously there. I was referred to the House of Commons Hansard for 3 April this year in which the Secretary of State for Social Services,  Sir Keith  Joseph, is reported as saying - witta what I think is called typical British understatement - in reply to a question: 
I have great respect for the 2 authors of the report to which my honourable friend refers, but they are non-medical and there are possible shortcomings in the evidence and conclusions which make it unwise to depend entirely upon them. 
I was referred to the May issue of the Journal of Hospital Medicine in which the evidence of the Wynn's is utterly demolished by James 
Trussell, the visiting Professor of Obstetrics at Nuffield College and, one might note, a medical authority. 
We should all learn from this experience something about the wisdom of accepting uncritically overseas evidence even when it is reported in the London 'Times' and sent to us by an organisation aspiring to the stature of the Right to Life Association. The wisdom of a Judge is needed, if for no other reason than to sort out the chaff from the grain. A number of honourable members have expressed the view that the .terms of reference of which I gave notice originally gave insufficent emphasis to responsible parenthood and family life. This view appears to be shared by the Archbishop of Canberra and Goulburn, the Most Rev.  Dr T.  V. Cahill. My seconder and I have been impressed by these views, and accordingly last night we amended our motion along the lines suggested by the Archbishop and the members concerned. We thank the Archbishop in particular for providing the form of words through which an intention which was always present in our motion has been given additional clarity and emphasis. 
In conclusion I ask honourable members not to accept the shadow of an inquiry in place of an inquiry of substance. I ask them not to reject the questions which are relevant in favour of questions which may seem safe. We can procrastinate but the problems we evade today will return tomorrow and look us in the face. An amendment which is too coy to mention sex education and too timid to evoke any aspect of abortion other than its causes is relevant neither to our needs nor to our times. 
Let me say at once that the Government gladly accepts the inclusion in this Bill of the extract from the Declaration of Human Rights from which the former Minister for Education and Science, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has quoted, embodying, as it does very thoroughly, the philosophy and statements of faith on which the legislation before the House rests. Although it accepts that amendment from the Opposition, the Government rejects the remainder of the Opposition's amendments as totally undermining the hope of achieving the great aspirations set out in the Declaration and, indeed, emasculating the legislation which we are debating. The former Minister for Education and Science, upon whose shoulders rests a very formidable share of the responsibility for the present state of Australian schools, has, in the name of fighting centralisation, proposed amendments which would destroy the most hopeful initiatives in the direction of decentralisation in the administration of education which this country has yet seen. 
The honourable member for Wannon, in proposing to combat bureaucracy, has chosen to concentrate the overwhelming weight of School Commission representation in the hands of 2 bureaucracies, namely, that bureaucracy made up of the State Departments of Education, as expressed through their Ministers and institutionalised in the Australian Education Council, and that other bureaucracy, no less hidebound, which is institutionalised in the independent schools authorities. The membership proposed for the Australian Schools Commission, and foreshadowed in the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission which was announced by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  on 24 September this year, reflects very closely the membership and the spread of interests represented on the original Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission, which was appointed under Professor Karmel as one of the first acts of the present Government. 
The work of that Committee, unrepresentative and flawed as the honourable member for Wannon would have us believe it, led to the production of the interim report of the Australian Schools Commission which was hailed by the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  as 'this magnificent report'. It produced a document which that right honourable gentleman said his own government should have produced. The great body of teachers in Australia and that great body of parents whose efforts have done so much to keep the education system afloat in this country throughout the postwar period will view with great trepidation the amendments that have been proposed by the honourable member for Wannon and will similarly regard the philosophy of which those amendments are an expression. There will be no doubt in the minds of those organisations that there would be no place on a Schools Commission, staffed by a government in which the honourable member for Wannon was again the Minister for Education, for persons such as  Mr Ray  Costello, the  President  of the first Teachers Federation, who has been appointed to the Interim Committee by the present Minister for Education. There would be no place on such a commission for  Mrs Joan  Kirner, who has been appointed from the Australian Council of State School Organisations.  Mr Costello  and  Mrs Kirner  are people with a knowledge as deep, an experience as extensive, a commitment to education equal in every way to anyone- 
The honourable member for Wannon shows himself no less adept at taking up the time of other speakers by the procedural forms of the House than he accuses other members of being through interjecting. It is quite clear, given the terms of the amendments moved by the honourable member for Wannon, that neither of these people, enormous though their potential contribution is to the cause of education in this country, would have any hope of finding their way on to a commission in which the honourable member for Wannon had any say. Indeed it was clear from the speech made by the honourable member for Wannon that the existence of the Schools Commission itself will be in serious doubt should he again return to the office which he has twice occupied. He said his Party would preserve its own right and make its own decisions on this matter. I regard that as a very ominous warning for the prospects of any objective process of inquiry into the needs of education in this country. 
Honourable members will not find it hard to recall how, prior to the 1969 election, the honourable member for Wannon promoted the idea of a nationwide survey on educational needs as a means of staving off the demands not only of teachers' organisations and of parents' organisations but also of State Ministers and others who make up the Australian Council for Education, for which he has suddenly developed so high an opinion, until after the Government of which he was a member could get over a critical pre-election period. How rapidly he and his leader moved to discredit the results of that survey as soon as the election was over. The whole philosophy of members opposite in matters of Commonwealth assistance for education has been based on a 3 -tier model of the education system. 
The honourable member for Wannon and those associated with him have always had a very special affinity with and concern for a very small group of schools in this community whose students are already receiving education of a very high quality. They have been prepared to spare a few crumbs for those parochial and government schools in middle and outer suburban areas which have been represented in this place until recently by members of their own Party. They have had no concern whatsoever for those schools at which Australia's least privileged children receive their education. Three groups in particular have missed out throughout the long period of Liberal Party Government of this country. I refer in particular to children who are handicapped by being born into socially and economically disadvantaged households, children who are drawn from migrant households in which the language spoken is a language other than English and the cultural assumptions are other than those of our own society, and children who are born mentally or physically handicapped in some degree. Although any community should acknowledge a great and overriding obligation to those 3 groups of children, it is these children who, under the government of the honourable member for Wannon and his predecessors in the Education portfolio, have missed out. I have little time to develop the extent to which they have missed out but I draw attention in that time to a few indicative facts, including those set out in the report of the Migrant Task Force Committee of Victoria which was tabled recently in this Parliament. The first conclusion of that report states: 
Recent surveys and reports Indicate that: effectively only 20 per cent of the children in the schools surveyed who need English tuition are receiving enough of it . . . 
In effect there in a blatant denial of the child's right to a meaningful and fulfilling educational experience. 
I turn to the needs of the handicapped children and particularly those who are psychologically disturbed and have specific learning difficulties or have difficulties of language expression and articulation; that is, to children who, under any proper system of priorities for educational expenditure, would receive prompt and proper care from the phychology and guidance branches of education departments, from the speech therapy branches of education departments and from remedial teaching staff of education departments. A report presented recently to the Victorian Minister for Educa tion revealed that in that State, with a school population of 600,000 children, a mere 98 officers in the Psychology and Guidance Branch were available, 43 of whom were still in the process of training. I think that is a fair indication of the priority attached by the honourable member for Wannon and his State colleagues to the needs of the child who is handicapped by emotional disturbance or by specific learning difficulties. The report went on to point out that the speech therapy branch of the Victorian Education Department had barely half the speech therapists necessary to meet its estimated workload. 
I wonder whether the honourable member for Wannon and those who, like him, try to undermine the process by which these facts could regularly be brought under public scrutiny have any comprehension of the misery of the family and the child when defects of speech get steadily worse over a number of years while that child is waiting for treatment and none can be provided for him. I have seen children identified by officers of the Victorian Education Department as having defects of speech in their first or second year at school and denied treatment for 3 or more years because of the gross shortage of speech therapists. For 3 or 4 years these defects became exacerbated and fed on themselves until the children concerned became speech cripples. I wonder whether the honourable member for Wannon has any comprehension of the distress of parents and the child where specific learning difficulties are identified and where 80 per cent of the children who receive the assistance which they require in the first year or 2 years of their school career, recover from those difficulties. A majority of the children with these defects are denied the assistance that they need up to grades 5, 6 and beyond, even into secondary schools, where the prospects for successful action are remote indeed. 
I bring these very few instances to the attention of the House and to the honourable member for Wannon because I am convinced that the great contribution that the Australian Schools Commission will make to the affairs of education in this country is to bring before the attention of the public, this Parliament and the State Parliaments not only the great and glaring problems of education in which we all share most directly but also those problems of special education, special services, education for handicapped children and education for migrant children which have so long been swept under the mat and which will not receive the attention to which they are entitled until they are regularly exposed to the light of day. 
This process of an objective inquiry is one which will not be well served if the people responsible for it are drawn exclusively from the bureaucracies of State education departments and from the teaching and parental hierarchies of the independent school system. The selection of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission - that is, the committee that was headed by Professor Karmel - was a triumph to bringing into play in this field of educational investigation the best resources that our community has to offer. There is a very considerable overlap between that initial interim committee and the interim committee announced by the Minister on 24 September. If the amendments that will be moved by the honourable member for Wannon are carried it would be most unlikely that more than one or two at the most of the people who were represented_on those committees would figure as members of a permanent schools commission. That would be a tragedy for this nation, for its schools and for its children. 
I hope that there will be no retreat by the Australian people from the commitment into which they entered last December for a new deal for the schools of this country. I hope that they will not allow themselves to be frightened off from the new processes of objective inquiry and from the greatly increased scope of financial commitment on the part of the Australian Government to the Australian education system. I hope that we can go forward from the recommendations which have been put forward by the Karmel Committee and adopted overwhelmingly by the Government to new uplands of education in this country. The Karmel report is a great charter for the development of Australian schools and the present Bill gives that charter lasting form. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Which Departments and authorities responsible to him (in his dual capacities) are required by statute or regulation to prepare and submit annual reports that are tabled in the Parliament. &lt;2) Which Departments and authorities responsible to him are not so required, but have prepared and published annual reports. 
Which Departments and authorities are neither required by statute or regulation to report annually, nor have done so by administrative discretion. 
Will he instruct any Departments and authorities comprehended by part (3) to prepare and submit annual reports, and so assist Parliament and the public in reviewing their activities. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Transport been drawn to statements by the Victorian Minister for Transport that in offering the Victorian Government $9. 6m for upgrading public transport in that State the Australian Government asked the Victorian Government for representation on transport instrumentalities such as the Railways Board, the Transport Regulation Board and the Tramways Board? Is there any truth in these allegations? What is his reaction to the suggestion by the Victorian Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Holding,  that co-operation between the 2 Governments would be improved by Australian Government representation on the Melbourne and Metropolitan Transportation Committee? 
asked the Minister for Education upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">Will he bring up to date the information on degree courses at colleges of advanced education which his predecessor gave on 9 March 1972 (Hansard, page 869). 
At the outset I should like to congratulate the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  who has just made a most humane and sensitive speech on education - a speech of the kind we are not accustomed to hearing from the benches that his Party occupies. It reminded me strongly of speeches that I heard from members who are now in government, over a period of years when they pleaded with the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the then Minister for Education and Science, to take account of what was happening in schools across Australia, other than those elite and fortunate schools from which he sprang and to which he, and his colleagues, customarily send their children. There was a good deal of the resonance of that honourable gentleman's attitude in the speech that was made a little earlier this evening by your colleague,  Mr Lucock,  the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  who expressed great satisfaction with the approach to education of the previous Government when he said that every child was treated the same way and that that made the system relatively easy and simple to administer. He paid some recognition - as I think he would not have done a few years ago - to the fact that such things as disadvantaged schools and disadvantaged children exist in our community. But he went on to say that if additional assistance over and above per capita grants were given to such schools and such children it would be charity and not justice. I thought that, too, had a strong resonance of the attitudes which we used to hear so frequently from the honourable member for Wannon, as Minister for Education and Science. I used to think that the attitudes of Opposition members were activated by malice. Over the years I have come to the conclusion that the cause is much more likely to be ignorance. Few members of the Opposition have had any direct contact with government schools or any first hand experience of what occurs in those schools. 
A week or so ago, the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  indicated that he had been educated by a government correspondence school at one stage in his career. He seemed to feel that that qualified him, by way of first hand experience, with the system. The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  tonight produced a remarkable explanation for the difficulties to which the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  referred - the low rate of reading competence among children in the early years of secondary education. He said that these difficulties were due to poor teachers. I think his phrase was that poor teachers were at the base of the problem. This reminded me of an exchange that took place last night between the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  and my colleague, the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow).  The honourable member for Holt, I might say, has had a long and distinguished career in the Victorian Education Department as a secondary school teacher. He is a man who enjoys, in the Victorian secondary teaching service, an unusual and perhaps a unique reputation for the warmth of his relationship with the children he has taught over the years. Yet, the honourable member for Bradfield, having heard the honourable member for Holt say how much he wished that the children he had taught had had the advantages enjoyed by students at those schools now classified in the Karmel Committee report in category A, said: 
I want to listen to envy, hatred and malice from the honourable gentleman. 
The honourable member for Holt replied: 
Yes, envy, hatred and malice from one who spent 25 years as a teacher in government schools. 
The honourable member for Bradfield then said: 
And one who  went on strike often,  I  suppose? 
That seems to me to be a remark as revealing of incomprehension of the conditions in government schools as one made in another era by the honourable gentleman's mentor,  Sir Robert  Menzies, who, it will be recalled, referred to the students at government schools as 'clever pagans'. That again was a remark that resonates with the speeches which we have heard over the years from the honourable member for Wannon. 
It seems to make no impact on the consciousness of honourable members opposite that a gross discrepancy exists between the resources available to the schools of which they traditionally and continually have been the champions and the schools at which the great majority of Australian children receive their education. If the Karmel Committee had done no more than to document that discrepancy Australia would be very much in its debt. Once again I draw to the attention of members opposite figures established by the Karmel Committee and published in its report. If the index of resources devoted to the education of a child in a government school is expressed as 100 units, children who attend Catholic parochial schools and Catholic systemic schools have devoted to their education 70 units, and the resource allocation for children at non-government, non-Catholic systemic schools ranges from 40 units to 270 units. These figures have been before the Parliament now for 5 months yet members, such as the honourable member for Bendigo, aware as they are of these very gross discrepancies, can still rise in this place, or sit in their seats and interject, and attribute gross rates of illiteracy in government secondary schools - and, I might say in passing, even grosser rates of illiteracy in Catholic late primary grades and early secondary grades - to poor teaching. It does not seem to occur to the honourable member for Bendigo and those who think like him that there may be some - 
I attribute it to the reality which is expressed in the difference between the annual input of 40 resource units and an annual input of 270 resource units. 
An input of 270 resource units means small classes, favourable pupilteacher ratios, an abundant supply of teaching materials, lavish libraries - all the stimuli which will encourage children to take advantage of the capacity with which they are endowed. This, after all, is the goal of this Government and the objective which is enshrined in the Karmel Committee report. This is the objective in trying to establish, over Opposition resistance, the Australian Schools Commission on a statutory basis to make sure that every Australian child has an equal opportunity to develop the capacities with which he is endowed. I recall to honourable members opposite that whereas 80 per cent of the children from those schools for whom they speak in the Parliament complete their secondary education, only 30 per cent of the children from government and Catholic schools, for which honourable members on this side of the chamber speak, are able so to complete their secondary education. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Among the matters covered by the estimates being discussed at the moment in this Parliament the development of a national water resources program will be particularly welcome to Australians wherever they live. It will be welcome to those who live in the rural areas of Australia and the outback areas of Australia, where water historically has been so scarce a commodity. It will be welcome to those who live in the State capitals of this country where it has been realised for the first time in recent years that the supplies of water available are not unlimited. We are faced for the first time in this country with the prospect faced already in other countries of using waste water for drinking and other domestic purposes. The World Health Organisation issued a warning in 1971 which I should draw to the attention of the Committee. It said: 
When  a  choice has to be made between alternative sources, the quality of the raw water (and hence the extent of the treatment required) as well as the adequacy and reliability of the sources, from a quantitative point of view, together with the potentialities for expansion in the future, must be considered. The choice of a source requiring a minimum amount of treatment must always be regarded as preferable to the installation of sophisticated purification plant. 
One of the ways in which this problem of the sources of water that we should prefer for drinking purposes has come to the fore is through the decision of the Victorian Government to proceed with the construction of the Yarra Brae Dam and associated facilities on Sugar Loaf Creek and Watsons Creek. This was a decision reached not on the recommendation of the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works, which is primarily responsible for Melbourne's water supply, but as a result of representations made by the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission in Victoria. Indeed, the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works has strongly opposed the proposal. In evidence he gave in 1966 its engineer pointed out that water from this scheme involved chlorinated supplies to some of the metropolitan consumers, 'to which there would be considerable public opposition while alternative sources of safe unchlorinated supply are available'. He pointed out that 'the high iron content would be a disadvantage to various industries unless special treatment were carried out to reduce the iron, and a large proportion ot the industries in the area would have to be supplied from such a scheme'. That evidence given in 1966 continues to reflect the view of the Board. The present Premier of Victoria, as Minister for Local Government, was obliged to admit in 1971 that the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works had not sought the Yarra Brae proposal and 'was, and is, opposed to it*. He said that it would require a complete reversal of the M &amp; MBW'S traditional policy of drawing water only from closed and uncontaminated catchments. 
Since this proposal was first floated in the early 1960s, and since the chief engineer of the M &amp; MBW gave his views on it we have learnt a good deal more about the problems associated with the re-use of waste water for drinking purposes. It has become clear that even the most sophisticated systems of water purification will not deal with all the impurities found in waste water. We know that diseases such as hepatitis are transmitted through water supply, and there have been instances in which hepatitis bacteria passed through even the most sophisticated system of water purification, including chlorination. We know that the purification process does not remove completely the very complicated organic chemicals used in detergents and pesticides, either in their original chemical forms or in the forms into which they break down in water. 
If the Victorian Government and the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works have carried out analyses of Yarra River water for these refractory organics, they have not pub,lished the results. They have not taken the public into their confidence. Indeed there has been a lack of frankness with the public over this whole question of the impurities of the water proposed for storage and treatment in the Yarra Brae scheme. The World Health Organisation lays down an E. coli count limit of 10 parts per 100 millimetres and the count for Yarra Brae waters published in the 1967 report of the Victorian Public Works Committee was up to 10,000 parts per 100 millilitres. A report, which so far has been kept secret by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works, reveals that between 1968 and January of this year the count was up to 35,000 parts per 100 millilitres. Of the samples of Yarra Brae water tested for turbidity 98.3 per cent exceeded the World Health Organisation's highest desirable level and 54 per cent exceeded that Organisation's maximum permissible level. Of the samples of water from Yarra Brae tested for colour 100 per cent exceeded the highest desirable level and 65 per cent exceeded the maximum permissible level. These figures mean that feeding Yarra Brae water into Melbourne's water supply will involve a costly purification process of coagulation, flocculation, sedimentation, rapid sand filtration and disinfection. 
The Board itself admits that this will be the first complete treatment of water for the metropolitan system and that therefore experience is not available. However, it proposes to proceed immediately with construction of a processing plant from which 10 million gallons a day will be discharged into the Maroondah aqueduct. By the end of 1977 the Board will have installed a 50-million gallon a day treatment plant which will have been built, in the Board's own -words, after a minimal amount of experience in handling Yarra River water. This hurried approach to the provision of additional water for Melbourne's water supply involves treating the people of Melbourne not so much as consumers of water but as guinea pigs in a water purification experiment. The haste with which the business is being tackled seems to me to be most unwise. The Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works has shown that it is worried. It showed its concern in a recent report which emphasised that the Yarra Brae plant will involve the first complete treatment of water for the metropolitan system and, as such, will be constructed without the benefit of past experience. The report said: 
The major reason against initially constructing a pilot plant is that insufficient time in available to- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Berinson)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development by congratulating him on the magnificent personal achievement symbolised by yesterday's signing of the Albury-Wodonga agreement. I ask him a question about the Government's plans to purchase, subdivide, service and make available at cost residential land. What has been the progress in the negotiations which have been taking place? When does he anticipate legislation to be introduced in the State Parliaments? When does he expect the program to begin to bite on the price of residential land? 
The positive note which has been struck at the outset of this debate by both the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  in his second reading speech, and by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  speaks well for the future of mental health institutions in this country. It is therefore the more to be regretted that the Opposition has chosen to make this debate the occasion for inflicting by way of amendment yet another humiliation upon the local governing bodies of this country. I do not understand why the Liberal Party is elevating its hostility to local government to an article of faith to which it gives expression at every possible opportunity, whether it be in the context of the Grants Commission Bill, introduced earlier this year, over which the Opposition went perilously close to voting against a measure which enjoyed the support of local governing bodies throughout Australia; whether it be at the recent Premiers Conference where the Liberal Premiers took the lead in voting down the proposal that local government should be given representation on the Loan Council on an equal footing with its 2 partners in our Federal system, or whether it be in respect of this measure before the House to which the Opposition will shortly move an amendment providing that approaches made within the context of the Bill by municipalities should be referred back by the Minister to the State Ministers concerned for consultation. 
I am aware that the Government has accepted the Opposition's amendment. However, It does not ease my regret that the Opposition should have used the present debate on this measure as yet another means of presenting its vendetta against local councils, the third tier of federalism in this country. 
The evidence of social pathology in this community is widespread and irrefutable. The evidence of mental illness has been amply documented in recent years. Surveys reported in the 'Medical Journal of Australia' on 14 April this year showed that no fewer than one in every four adult Australians is a victim of mental disease in some form or another; that 7.6 per cent of our population is clinically disturbed, and that a further 18.4 per cent suffers from borderline psychiatric disorders. In their book entitled 'The Health of a Metropolis' Krupinski and Stoller found that psychiatric morbidity was to be found among 12.8 per cent of children, 14.8 per cent of male adolescents, 13.5 per cent of female adolescents, 16.5 per cent of male adults and 23.8 per cent of female adults. These are very daunting statistics indeed. They receive practical expression in active anti-social behaviour of every kind. We can see it in the mounting incidence of fatalities and injuries upon our roads; we can see them in the mounting incidence of marital breakdowns; we can see them in the statistics of drunkenness and disease associated with alchoholism For all these and many more reasons, the Bill before the House is one that will be widely welcomed. 
I would like to concentrate particularly on those sections of the Bill which refer to assistance being given to voluntary agencies in the community for the establishment of new mental health facilities. I do this because I believe there is great scope for innovation in this field and great scope for localisation. Within my own electorate statistics suggest that not fewer than 6,000 adults are in need of treatment for mental disorders. At present only a very small percentage of these people are receiving treatment. They are obliged to go to private psychiatrists operating on a fee for service basis, and almost without exception having their consulting rooms in the city of Melbourne. Those who cannot afford private psychiatric services are obliged to go to public psychiatric hospitals, the nearest being 12 miles away. It is no wonder that people who already have very significant problems with which to cope in their everyday lives in many cases find the journey that lies between them and help an insuperable obstacle. I was heartened therefore when parishioners associated with the Church of Saint Stephen in East Ringwood in my electorate decided to take the step of setting up a mental health service for their neighbours. 
Last night I was privileged to attend a meeting at which 85 of those people and their supporters in the community came out to establish a committee which will steer the project to fruition. Much valuable preparatory work has been done already. Very much more needs to be done. The Minister will understand when I say that the costs involved in getting such a venture off the ground and in employing, whether on a salary or on a sessional basis, specialists such as psychiatrists, psychologists and social workers is an undertaking, a responsibility, beyond the capacities of all but the very largest and indeed State-wide voluntary organisations in this country. The capital cost alone of establishing such a venture is of the order of $20,000 and the recurrent costs can scarcely fall much behind $55,000 a year. lt is not enough that community mental health services of this kind should restrict themselves to the provision of services for those people who are already mentally ill. There is great work to be done in our community in mental prophylaxis and in preventive mental care and this, too, can well be undertaken at the local level. The people connected with the clinic of which I speak have in mind a 4-phase operation. They want to commence immediately on a program of community education designed to see that not only mental illness itself but also the physical and environmental conditions and the strains and tensions from which mental illness arises are identified at the earliest possible stage and that appropriate action is taken to remedy those conditions. In this field as in so many others prevention not only can be so much more effective than cure - many disorders which ultimately prove to be incurable could have been cured if they had been identified and received treatment at a sufficiently early stage of their development - but it is infinitely cheaper for our community in the long run. If the resources that we currently devote to the rehabilitation of the victims of road accidents and to the restoration of their vehicles were diverted to the mental health program and made available to organisations such as the St Stephens Clinic, the saving to our community in the long run would be very substantial indeed. 
Secondly, for those people whose disorders have already progressed to the point at which there is no answer other than professional treatment, the clinic proposes to provide the services of a psychiatrist, a psychologist and a social worker, these people being available not only for individual and group therapy within the clinic itself but also in the role of community visitors, taking their services into the homes of the patients themselves. The next important component of the program is evaluation. We must recognise that mental health services at the local level in this country are a field of community activity as yet very little explored. Where people such as those associated with this clinic set out to initiate a new program and to venture into areas not previously explored by organisations such as their own, it will be necessary for an active process of scrutiny and evaluation to go on. No single facet of the project which has been outlined to me impresses me more than the provision which has been made in it for continuing scrutiny and evaluation of everything that is done. 
There is a final component in the program and that is provision for research. Here again, I do not believe that any psychiatrist, psychologist or specialist working in the field of mental health and mental morbidity is worth his salt or indeed is able to maintain his professional competence unless he is constantly engaged in the sort of research that promotes an open-mindedness to new concepts in his field, that promotes the sort of acute sustained observation which so often is lacking in other fields of health care in this country and which constantly prompts him to challenge the dogmas on which his specialty is based. 
So over these 4 areas of activity - prophylaxis, treatment, evaluation and research - a valuable initiative is being taken by the people of East Ringwood and I trust that this initiative will be copied by other communities in which the need is no less great and will be fostered by the Australian Government under the provisions of this Bill. We should all see it as a matter for regret that in the past initiatives of this sort have been stifled by lack of funds. The Australian Government is a very imperfect instrument indeed for providing mental health services. It is much too remote from the people who are in need of those services and from the practitioners who provide them. But the Australian Government alone has the resources at its disposal to see that these services are properly fostered. This Bill represents a very real step forward on the mental health measures which we have debated in this House in earlier years. Its reward in both human and economic terms will be enormous. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What was the total (a) full-time and (b) part-time enrolment in (i) each university and (ii) all universities in (A) each State and Territory and (B) the Commonwealth in 1972 (Hansard, 22 February 1972, page 83). 
Can he provide comparable figures for all universities in the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Canada and Japan. 
The Prime Minister will have shared the general pleasure at an Australian being honoured with a Nobel Prize for Literature. Will the Prime Minister give consideration to this event being given appropriate recognition by the Parliament and to inviting  Mr Patrick  White to take a place on the floor of the Parliment to receive an address to that effect? 
Australians will learn with no surprise that it is the intention of the Opposition parties once again to delay as long as possible the enactment of effective action against restrictive trade practices in this country. It is now 15 years since the Constitutional Review Committee, which included, as you will recall,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  representatives from all parties, recommended unanimously that the Parliament should seek power by referendum to deal with restrictive trade practices including resale price maintenance. The parties now in Opposition, and then in Government, could have been left in no two minds in 1958 and 1959 that action against restrictive trade practices was an idea whose time had come, an idea whose fulfilment might be delayed but could not be averted. For 15 years the Opposition has been fighting its long defeat on this matter. It is determined even at this late stage to postpone for a few more weeks - a few more months if its colleagues in another place have their way - the final destruction of that cosy world, those cosy arrangements, from which the people to whom it looks for support, the people it represents in this place, have derived such great benefits over so many years. There will be no surprise in the Australian community at the knowledge that once again the Opposition is holding up, till the last possible moment and beyond, effective action against the people whose conspiracies have for so long held up the price of goods in this country and have for so long inflicted upon consumers in this country such grave and avoidable disadvantages. 
Let me look back over the chronology of events and refer to a few statements over the years. It has always been the practice of honourable members opposite, as it has been the practice of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  again today, to give lip service to the cause of action against restrictive trade practices. As long ago as March 1960 the Governor-General, in opening a Parliament in which members of the parties opposite made up the Government, said: 
The developoment of tendencies to monopoly and restrictive practices in commerce and industry has engaged the attention of the Government which will give consideration to legislation to protect and strengthen free enterprise against such a development. 
In March 1961, during the opening of a Parliament that was performed by the Administrator of the day, it was said: 
The Attorney-General has so far progressed in his investigation of the matter and the Government has developed its thinking to the stage that consultation with the States will now be advantageous. 
In November 1961  Sir Robert  Menzies, in the policy speech of that year, said: 
We desire in co-operation with the State Governments to do something to protect and strengthen free productive and business enterprise against monopoly or restrictive practices. 
In December 1962  Mr Gordon  Freeth, as Acting Attorney-General and speaking for the Attorney-General of the day,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, delivered a paper in which he said: 
The paper which I have before me represents  Sir Garfield's  and the Government's conclusions arising out of a really monumental amount of work that  Sir Garfield  did. 
In the period of months that remained to him in the office of Attorney-General - and I pay tribute to the work on trade practices he did in that office -  Sir Garfield  Barwick, at successive meetings of learned societies, particularly learned legal societies, around Australia, gave shape to a philosophy which, as we now know, was not the Government's but his own. In due course, because of his persistence in this philosophy,  Sir Garfield  found himself elevated to the High Court of Australia and the present Leader of the Opposition instated in his shoes as Attorney-General with the mission of emasculating the Barwick proposals for the control of trade practices. The long defeat had been commenced, but that defeat was to be drawn out year in year out until now, as I said earlier, 15 years after the Constitution Review Committee brought down its original recommendations, we are still as a nation denied effective protection against the conspirators and the manipulators with whose activities the legislation before us today is designed to cope. And still the Leader of the Opposition pleads for more time. 
Is there any man in this country to whom we should look as being more experienced in this field of activity than the Leader of the Opposition? How much more time does he want to examine the field over which he presided as Attorney-General and about which we should presume and expect he has been thinking now for at least 8 years and, one would hope, probably a considerably longer period. Yet the Leader of the Opposition has tried, with all the ingenuity at his disposal today, to downgrade the importance, the urgency, of the proposals that are before us. He tried to throw doubt on the relevance of trade practices to the inflationary situation in which this country finds itself. Even less forgivably he tried to associate with his assertions the Commissioner of Trade Practices,  Mr Bannerman,  who made it  cleaT  in a report tabled recently in this Parliament that he for one would have nothing to do with the proposition that restrictive trade practices and inflation were matters which could be divorced. In his report  Mr Bananerman  said: 
In particular, action against restrictive trade practices is now seen, in Australia and overseas, as one of the measures that may help to contain inflation. Effective competition makes it harder to put prices up and makes it more necessary to pursue increased efficiency to keep down the costs that affect prices. To the extent that effective competition is inhibited by restrictive trade practices, inflationary trends are the harder to stop or slow down. 
A little later in his report  Mr Bannerman  drew attention to the fact that while companies were waiting to see what form the new trade practices legislation might take they were going ahead in the cosy fashion to which they are accustomed.  Mr Bannerman  said:   when they see a need to raise prices, they are raising them by agreement with their competitors. 
That is a process which does not stand up readily to the light of day. The Prices Justification Tribunal, upon which the Leader of the Opposition has similarly thrown doubt, has given us some insight only this week into the unwillingness of the companies and corporations concerned to see the activities to which the Commissioner for Trade Practices has drawn attention brought out into the light of day. You would have noticed,  Sir, on  the front page of the 'Australian Financial Review' of this week an article dealing with the activities of the Prices Justification Tribunal. It made the point that in the previous week no fewer than 4 major Australian companies have withdrawn the proposals for increased prices that they had had before the Prices Justification Tribunal rather than have those proposals undergo the process of public examination. I think that decision speaks volumes for the effectiveness not only of that particular organisation but also of the Commission to which reference is made in this Bill. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  had a lot to say about the undesirability of proscribing certain practices. He had tears to shed for the predicament of companies and corporations being placed in the position of having to think twice before persisting in a particular trade practice because of the possibility of finding themselves liable for a $250,000 fine. 
The existing trade practices legislation bogged down early in its effective life, precisely because it placed on the Commissioner of Trade Practices the onus to demonstrate that particular practices registered with him were against the public interest. The onus is now being placed in the other direction. Under the legislation we are discussing it will be up to the companies which enter into agreements to demonstrate that those agreements are not against the public interest. If there is any doubt the difficulties under which the Commissioner of Trade Practices was obliged to labour under the earlier legislation they are exemplified in the concrete pipes case. Any honourable member who has served on a local council is well aware of the pernicious and anti-social practices in which the concrete pipes industry has indulged over a period of years in its dealings with local government in Australia, and the way in which local government has persistently and regularly for many years been placed over a barrel by this particular industry indulging in the practice of collusive tendering. 
Early in the life of the Commissioner of Trade Practices the activities of the concrete pipe industry came to his attention. I refer honourable members to the report of the Commissioner for the year ended 1972 and to pages 6 and 7 where the sequence of events in this particular industry's relationship with the Commissioner is set out: How the Commissioner was left, after his initial dealings with the industry, under the impression that the agreement to which he had objected had been abandoned by the industry and that no new agreement had been brought into force; how, at a later date, under subsequent interrogations it emerged that on the very date on which the industry had abandoned its initial restrictive agreement it had entered into another agreement, different in legal form but equivalent in its impact upon the public purse; and how, when challenged over the subsequent agreement, the industry was prepared to fight it through the courts of Australia and ultimately to secure the judgment in the concrete pipes case from which so much has followed. 
It is not in the field of inflation alone that Australians will deplore this further evidence of the determination of the Opposition to press the interests of sectional groups over the interests of the community as a whole. They will deplore also the delay which is to occur in the enactment of effective measures for consumer protection at the national level. Here again we heard from the Leader of the Opposition fair words on the desirability of consumer protection and yet another affirmation of determination to see delayed as long as possible the putting into effect of such protection. Nobody who has consulted the reports of the consumer protection authorities in the various States will doubt the long overdue character of legislation on consumer protection at the national level. Nobody will doubt, reading those reports, that the consumer protection bureaus and councils themselves are acutely aware of the limitations of their power, especially when it comes to dealing with the great corporations with which this Parliament has only recently gained the power to deal. The consumer protection bureaus and the consumer protection councils of the States can exert a certain leverage over the shysters and the small scale con men to whose activities they regularly draw attention in their reports. It is not hard for the mechanism of naming a used car lot or a radio and television repair man to be evoked effectively at State level, but there is an abundance of evidence to show that the interests of consumers are abused by organisations of a scope whose power, influence and standing in our community enable them to ignore being named by a consumer bureau in its report to a State parliament. 
I notice with some interest the details set out on this matter in the 1971-72 report of the Consumer Affairs Council and the Consumer Affairs Bureau of New South Wales and how, in that report, the organisations concerned make the point that during the years 1969-70 and 1970-71 the complaints over motor vehicles attributable to- the Ford company rose by 387.S per cent in a single year and that in the following year they rose by another 76 per cent. The Ford company is par excellence the sort of corporation which cannot be dealt with by State legislatures. It is a company of national ramifications which requires national legislation to deal with it - legislation of the sort that the Opposition has expressed today its determination to delay. 
The House will recall that in his policy speech last November the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  gave an undertaking to the people of Australia that the Australian Government would provide assistance to upgrade urban transport. The House will recall, too, that at the meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council which was held in February the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  gave practical expression to the undertaking of the Prime Minister by committing the Government to meeting two-thirds of the cost of urban transport improvement in the years ahead. I rise tonight to draw the attention of the House to the decision of the Victorian Government to exclude from the benefits of this enlightened program .the Ringwood rail corridor in Victoria which serves the outer eastern suburbs of Melbourne. Four major rail works are waiting to be performed along that corridor. The railway line from Box Hill to Ringwood requires triplication. At Ringwood a third platform is required. Track duplication is needed between Ringwood and Bayswater and between Ringwood and Croydon, and the existing signalling installation between Croydon and Lilydale and between Bayswater and Ferntree Gully requires to be replaced. Not only do the comfort and the convenience of a very great number of my constituents depend upon this work being carried out expeditiously but also a deal of the economic viability of the community in which those constituents live similarly depends on this work being done. 
I had imagined that recognition would be given to the urgency of this program to be conducted jointly by the Australian Government and the Victorian Government for the upgrading of public transport. I noted in correspondence which has been conducted between the Victorian Government and the Ringwood City Council that the claim was made that in some way these projects were being held up not by .the Victorian Government but by the Australian Government. I noticed that representatives of the Liberal Party in the Victorian Parliament made the claim again that .these projects were being Obstructed by the Australian Government. It is only in recent weeks with the tabling of the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics on a Review of Public Transport Investment Proposals for Australian Capital Cities 1973-74 that the truth has at last come out, as of course is always ultimately the case. This report reveals that in relation to the triplication of rail track between Box Hill and Ringwood the Victorian Government never entertained any idea other than that this project should be carried out .between 1975 and 1978. There was never any intention on the part of the Victorian Government that this project should be carried out in the current financial year. 
The report reveals, too, that as regards duplication of track between Ringwood and Bayswater and between 'Ringwood ami Croydon, the replacement of signalling installations between Croydon and Lilydale and between Bayswater and Ferntree Gully, and the establishment of a third platform at Ringwood, the Victorian Government supplied to the Bureau of Transport Economics for the crucial process of evaluation of the economic viability of these projects information which was judged by the Bureau of Transport Economics to be totally inadequate. The Bureau, through the Australian Government, asked the Victorian Government to provide the information which was deficient and which would have enabled the assessment to be made in time for an appropriation to be included in the August Budget this year. Not only was the information not provided at the time in question, but I am advised by the Minister for Transport that it has still not been provided. 
It is clear from this report that the Victorian Government was determined at all stages that the triplication of track between Box Hill and 'Ringwood would not be commenced until 1975 and would not be completed until 1978. In regard to the vital rail projects further out along the eastern rail route the Victorian Government was insufficiently interested in the welfare of the people of that area to provide the Bureau of Transport Economics with the information on which alone an allocation of funds could responsibly be provided. It should be a matter of concern to us all that projects of this kind, crucial as they are to the urban development programs of this Government, crucial as they are to the well being and prosperity of the people of the outer suburban areas of all our State capitals, can be hindered and indeed aborted in this way by the remarkable apathy of the State governments concerned. 
The House will be interested to know that the Assistant DirectorGeneral of the Victorian Education Department has been authorised by the Victorian Minister for Education,  Mr Thompson,  to writeto schools in the following terms: 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I want to draw the attention of the House to the confidence trick that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  is trying to perpetrate on the young people of Australia in the matter of conscription. I rise to expose the way in which the Leader of the Opposition seeks to disown the conscription policies to which every Liberal Minister for Defence and every Liberal and Country Party Minister for the Army have repeatedly committed the parties to which they belong; conscription policies on which successive Liberal Prime Ministers have campaigned at successive elections for the House of Representatives and for the Senate; conscription policies to which each and every honourable member opposite has repeatedly dedicated himself. I would like to put on notice for the honourable members for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  Corangamite  (Mr Street),  Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  and Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  none of whom are present in the House now or have been present in the House for the past several hours, whether they acquiesced in the repudiation of conscription which has been undertaken in their name by their Parliamentary Leader, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  In his reply to the Leader of the Opposition in the debate on the censure motion of 23 October, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 
Every young Australian should realise that if the Party the Leader of the Opposition leads should ever return all those things will return including conscription. Nobody denies that it would return. 
I did not. I meant the honourable member for Corangamite. The 
Leader of the Opposition rejoined with the synthetic indignation to which the House has become accustomed and said: 
The statement has been made that 'nobody denies*. I will deny it. What the honourable gentleman has said is a farrago of untruths. If it must be denied it will be denied. 
I quote from the Hansard record, from Press statements and from newspaper reports so that honourable members can judge for themselves the sincerity of the Leader of the Opposition in this matter which is of such crucial importance to the young people of Australia. I quote from these unimpeachable sources so that honourable members opposite who take little pride in the parliamentary performance of their Leader can judge for themselves whether he is entitled even to reliance on his word. 
The honourable member for Wannon, as Minister for Defence, told the Western Australian State Conference of his Party on 6 July 1970: 
After Vietnam we will not be able to sustain the kind of forces that the Government believes Australia requires without national service. 
The honourable member for Wannon went on: 
Let me argue the reasons for this and why 1 believe there is no viable alternative to that which we have pursued. 
If the honourable gentleman has changed his view on the matter, he has not taken this House into his confidence. Let him say in the near future, when he is present in the House, whether he repudiates the arguments to which he attached both, weight and universality only 3 years ago. 
The honourable member for Flinders told the House on 9 September 1971, when he was Minister for Labour and National Service: 
National service was not introduced because of Vietnam. It was introduced in November 1964 but national servicemen were not sent to Vietnam until 1966. National service has not been maintained for 7 years solely because of Vietnam. In fact of all national servicemen called up only one-third have served in Vietnam. National service cannot be discontinued because we are withdrawing from Vietnam. It is vital that it be maintained because the alternative would be a significantly reduced full-time military force unable to meet its defence obligations. This would be quite unthinkable for the Government. 
If the honourable member for Flinders finds thinkable in Opposition those things which were unthinkable to the Government in which he was a Minister, he has studiously kept secret his change of heart. The honourable member for Flinders has denied the House details of a conversion which if it has occurred - and I doubt it - rivals the conversion of Paul on the road to Damascus. 
The honourable member for Corangamite, who was Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service, said on the same day and in the same debate: 
National service was introduced before Vietnam and it will be continued after our withdrawal from Vietnam for the same reasons as it was introduced. . . . We on our side of the House make no apology for continuing this system of national service. 
I wonder how the honourable member for Corangamite felt while his Leader was making on his behalf, the apology which he himself had refused to make. I wonder how he felt while his leader, was making a mockery of the stand to which he had previously committed himself. The honourable member for Farrer, again on the same day and in the same debate but as Minister for Defence, said: 
The scheme as now adjusted is an important element in our defence preparedness. The fluid strategic situation in which we find ourselves demands flexibility in our strategic policies and the progressive development of self-reliant forces and an evident defence capability. The national service scheme is an important element in this capability and in the retention of a readiness for various situations which might require the involvement of our forces. 
If the honourable member for Farrer has detected any change in 'the fluid strategic situation in which we find ourselves' his public utterances have given no sign of it - quite the reverse. I believe that the honourable member for Farrer is sincere in his statements. I believe the honourable member was as stunned as other honourable members opposite who heard their Leader repudiate the foundation stone on which Liberal defence policy is based. 
Finally,  Mr Speaker,  there was the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  then Minister for the Army. The honourable member for Kennedy said: 
One of the great things about national service is that it produces fine men. National service brings all classes of people together. It breaks the class barrier that some people would solemnly wish to create, pitting Australian against Australian. The barriers come down and all people are equals when they go into the Army. If national service had nothing to do with defence but was purely a system of training it would pay handsomely. 
He went on to say: 
I support this Bill- 
That is, the National Service Bill- most strongly. I again say that if this Government were to abandon one iota of the firm stand it has taken in regard to the defence of Australia it would deserve to go out of office. 
If the honourable member saw any inconsistency between these strong statements and the repudiation of national service uttered by the Leader of the Opposition on 23 October, he chose to remain silent. The honourable member for Kennedy professed to believe that a government which abandoned national service should go out of office, but he is quite happy for office to be assumed by a party which, according to its leader, has abandoned national service. 
It cannot be argued that the honourable members whose words I have quoted saw the light later in the term of office of the Government in which they were Ministers. The honourable member for Flinders was quoted in the Melbourne 'Herald' on 11 May 1972 as believing abolition of national service would be a totally irresponsible step for any government to take'. The honourable member for Kennedy was quoted in the Hobart 'Mercury' on 25 October 1972 as saying: 'In no circumstances would we cut out national service.' The honourable member for Farrer was quoted in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 23 November 1972 as saying that 'Without national service at this stage the regular Army's military capabilities would be crippled'. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  was quoted in the 'Australian' on 29 November  -  3 days before last year's election - as saying: The abolition of national service would decimate our defence forces. National service is something we don't like but it is a premium we must pay to look after our interests'. 
The inescapable fact is that there has been no change of heart over national service on the part of the Opposition. The inescapable fact is that if members opposite were to resume the government benches they would have Australians back in uniform and back in the jungles of South East Asia just as rapidly as they could rush legislation through this Parliament. The inescapable fact is that the Leader of the Opposition is well aware of these matters, and that, even so, he was willing to mislead this House and the hundreds of thousands of Australians who were listening to what he had to say over their radios. The Leader of the Opposition fools nobody with his statements on conscription, but those statements inflict great damage on his own credibility. 
I ask the Acting Minister for Education: How many capital projects in Victoria have been approved in principle by the Minister under the provisions of the Child Care Act? How many applications for capital projects have been received from Victoria? How does that number compare with the number of applications received from other States? Can he confirm that funds are available for further applications from local government organisation and community groups for grants for capital projects to be considered under this Act? 
The House has welcomed the efforts which are being made by my colleague the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  to reduce the cost of building homes by negotiating a uniform national code of building regulations. The House has similarly welcomed the efforts being made by the Minister to bring down the cost of housing by fostering additional research and development work in the building field. An area of housing activity which so far has escaped the attention of the Minister is the acceptance of responsibility by other authorities associated with housing in the matter of the preparation of building sites. Home builders can find themselves involved in very heavy costs if local government is not prepared to accept proper responsibility for the land which it agrees to see subdivided, if solicitors are not prepared to accept proper responsibility for the residential land in which they are involved through the conveyancing process and if building firms enter into contracts to erect homes on sites which are not suitable for the purpose. 
I am encouraged to draw this matter to the attention of the House because of the experience of a couple in my own electorate who, 4 months after the date of commencement of the construction of their home, find themselves with a bill for $2,800 for which they have so far to show IS concrete piers. I quote from a letter which was sent to me by this couple. It states: 
On the 12th July a bulldozer attempted to excavate the site to prepare for the concrete slab foundation, this was unsuccessful and a letter was sent to us by the builder requesting access to the site and for the site to be drained, this was done immediately at a cost to us of $680. Another attempt was made, again unsuccessful. So a consultation with the builders and 
Lilydale Council resulted in a decision to redesign the slab on a pier and beam foundation. A quote was requested it came to a total of $1,200 made up of $525 for the piers $480 for additional concrete and the rest made up of $134 engineers drawings and the rest for additional steel and form work. We sought the extra from the Commonwealth Bank which was granted, the piers were done and a letter from the builder arrived saying the piers were $1116.72 a difference of $591.72. The council then demanded the site be filled to a deph of 18 inches with 6 feet around the house. The fill was arranged, again at cost to us however the builders were at a loss as to which machinery could be used to spread the fill a drot was arranged and this got bogged, another bill for $153. 
So the story goes on. I want to put it to the House tonight that all these additional expenses in which this couple found themselves involved, in which many other couple previously have found themselves involved and in which many other couples will find themselves involved in time to come, could have been avoided if at each stage of the process of this land becoming available for housing use more responsibility had been accepted by the authorities concerned. 
Like other honourable members on this side of the House, I thought for the first two-thirds of the speech delivered by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the honourable member had undergone a transformation like Saul on the road to Damascus. The honourable member led us all very neatly up the garden path during the first part of his remarks. When he purported to support the legislation before the House and to commit his Party to such support, he encouraged us to believe that the leopard can indeed change its spots. Science is vindicated: The leopard remains unchanged. In the last few words of his speech the honourable member for Wannon demonstrated that the Opposition remains committed, as it was committed in government, to the system of per capita grants which has so long underpinned and perpetuated the inequalities of education in this country. 
If the honourable gentleman who spoke and the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  who now interjects are in any doubt about that proposition I refer them to the remark made by the Karmel Committee on this very point. Students, teachers and parents who are looking forward with great eagerness to the transformation of Australian schools along the lines recommended by Professor Karmel and the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission have been left in doubt today about the intentions of the Opposition. They do not know whether the Opposition will in fact use its majority in another place to deny Australian schools the benefits that the Karmel Committee has proposed for them. 
The honourable member for Wannon interjects and says that he is supporting the legislation. The honourable member has already put the House on "notice that he will be opposing a crucial part of the legislation. The House is entitled to know how far he and his Party intend to press this opposition. Very many people around this country will be waiting on the answer to that question because so much revolves on it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Yes. I think that the honourable member for Wannon has been in this House long enough to know that it would be out of order. 
The honourable member for Casey would be happy to yield, in the best traditions of the House of Commons, to the request made by the honourable member for Wannon. 
Australians who have the interests of schools at heart will have been appalled to hear the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  affirm before dinner that the Opposition majority in another place will be used to reinstate amendments in the Schools Commission Bill which the Opposition knows are unacceptable to the Government and must lead to the Bill being dropped. They will have noted with dismay that the Opposition is destroying the Schools Commission as surely in this way as if it had used its Senate majority to vote down the Bill at the second reading stage. The honourable member for Gwydir made it clear that despite lip service paid today to the work of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission the Opposition remains as hostile as ever to the policy of allocating Australian Government assistance to schools on the basis of needs and priorities in accordance with the mandate that this Government received only a year ago. 
Honourable members opposite spent a great deal of today's debate praising the work of the Committee to which the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  originally appointed 10 notable Australians expert in particular aspects of education and broadly representative of interest groups involved in the administration of Australian schools. Yet tonight they are determined to see that Committee, in the form of a statutory commission, reconstituted on an entirely different basis. They claim to be satisfied, to be in support of the report, yet they are determined to radically transform the base from which that report arose. When the Schools Commission was debated originally in this House honourable members opposite advocated a set of amendments which would have effectively excluded from participation in the Commission representatives of teachers and of parents. Yet tonight they insist that such representatives must be included in the Commission even against the wishes of the organisations concerned - and those wishes have been made very clear indeed. 
We do not have to look very far for the purpose behind these amendments. On the one hand, ideally, the Opposition wants to see dropped the Schools Commission, to which it has always been opposed and to which it remains opposed. Then if at any time in the future members opposite should find themselves once again on this side of the House they will not have to go to the trouble of repealing the Act. Equally, failing that device, the Opposition is anxious to see the whole concept of the Schools Commission, and the needs approach that it represents, discredited. The real purpose of the amendments is to rob the Commission of its independent, expert and impartial character - those very qualities that gave the Karmel Committee the standing it has enjoyed in the community - and to reproduce within the structure of the Commission all the rivalries and hostilities which bedevil education as we know it. The real purpose is to turn the Commission into a cockpit for disputes between government and non-government schools, between teachers and the authorities which employ teachers, and between the Australian Government and the States. 
The Opposition believes, and with good reason, that such a quarrelsome body could not hope to command the same public respect as the Karmel Committee and that its failure to implement the needs policy in an acceptable manner would clear the way for a restoration of the across-the-board per capita grants approach to which the Opposition always has been committed. 
Members of this House need to remember that the States Grants (Schools) Bill to which we have given consideration today is current only for the years 1974 and 1975. A Schools Commission, constituted on the lines of the original Karmel Committee, is the only body which can command the support and consensus in the community for an assessment of further needs in 1976 and subsequent years. We need to be cognisant of what would happen to the Australian education if the amendments currently before this House and which are to be moved shortly in another place are pressed. It would be a national tragedy for our schools if the advice tendered by the Karmel Committee itself about the composition of the Schools Commission - I refer to its recommendations in section 13.6  -  were to be disregarded. It would be a national tragedy for our schools and the children who attend them if the work, the assessment of needs and the supervision of the program of assistance to schools to which we have given attention today had to be carried on by an interim committee with all the limitations that that involves. 
Has the Acting Minister for Education seen reports that the Government is being asked to provide an amount variously estimated at from $3m to $15m in grants to the schools to which honourable members opposite send their children? Can he say whether these grants would cost $15m as mentioned by the honourable member for Wannon, $5m as mentioned by  Senator Rae  or an even lower figure, as mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition? Can he say whether the real cost will be $114m? Can he say whether the schools which will benefit from these demands are already superbly housed, staffed and equipped, and can he say by what percentage of Australia's school population they are attended? 
After hearing the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  pay such a generous tribute to the work that has been done during the past 12 months by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  in his negotiations with the States on this important matter of new city development I felt moved to pay a similar tribute to the Australian Country Party and to the honourable member. But with the best will in the world, thinking back over the record of decentralisation over the last 23 years, I find it impossible to pay such a tribute. The statistics speak for themselves. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke),  who is interjecting, may throw doubt on the statistics if he wishes, but the fact is that in 1947, 31 per cent of this country's population lived in non-urban areas, and In 1970  -  the last year for which consolidated statistics are available - only 14.7 per cent were still living in non-urban areas. 
The years of Liberal-Country Party hegemony have been years of steady decline in the rural population and of steady consolidation and growth of population in our 6 capital cities. The legislation which we have before us today will be remembered in the history of this country as marking a point of new departure. It will be remembered that, through this legislation, Australians broke out of the urban straitjacket of 6 capital cities in which they had lived throughout their history. The Albury-Wodonga project, exciting as it is in itself, is only the forerunner of further new city projects. In his speech today the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  referred to the fact that each of the States contained within its boundaries at least one designated growth centre. He properly paid tribute to the wisdom of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development in so arranging things. 
The Government has based its thinking on urban affairs from the very beginning on the proposition that urban development in this country would occur most productively if it occurred as a function of co-operative federalism. There is no design, no thought, on the part of the national Government of this country that, in the words used by the Leader of the Opposition, all wisdom resides in Canberra. The work of the Department of Urban and Regional Development and of its Minister throughout this year has been a copy-book example of the workings of co-operative federalism, in that the Department and the Minister have sought to involve at every stage of negotiations representatives of all 3 levels of government which makes up our federal system. It is a mark of the fruitfulness of that approach that we should have this legislation setting up the Albury-Wodonga Development Authority at such a relatively early stage in the lifetime of the Government and in the working out of these new programs. Honourable members opposite should be particularly pleased at the selection of Albury-Wodonga as the first of the growth centres in the new program. It was. as I recall, in December 1944 that Albury housed the conference at which the Liberal Party of Australia was established. It is proof of the incapacity of this Government to bear a grudge that Albury-Wodonga has been singled out for the honour now bestowed upon it. We do not hold its history against it. 
It is important that we should not see the new cities program in isolation from the Government's overall approach to urban development, because whether it be the new cities, the establishment of the land commissions, the program of catching up with the sewerage backlog in the existing State capitals, the program for the upgrading of public transport, the program of improvement of recreational facilities initiated by my colleague the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  all these things are aspects of the practical commitment of this Government to the improvement of the quality of life for Australians wherever they may elect to live. There is a particularly close inter-relationship between the 4 Bills grouped for this cognate debate. 
The land commissions are designed primarily to tackle the problem of soaring land prices in this country. Honourable members will have noticed in the last few days that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development cited figures showing that over a 2-year period ending in March this year land prices in Sydney went up by 157 per cent. Yet Sydney, notorious though it is for the escalation of land prices, does not hold a candle to some other areas of Australia in this respect. In the city of Knox which straddles my electorate and the next door electorate of La Trobe the increase in land prices has been 100 per cent over a period of only 12 months. Nothing could bring home more vividly the predicament of the couple who are anxious to acquire a block of land on which to erect their first home than the fact that land prices have been rising for the past couple of years at a weekly rate far exceeding the maximum possible capacity of such a couple to save towards the purchase of their block. Nobody, I think in this House or in the various State Parliaments would deny that a very great part of this increase has been occasioned by the activities of land speculators. The other principal cause, of course, is the shortage of land that has been brought about by the failure of State governments to provide their departments or instrumentalities - the case differs from State to State - with the funds necessary to keep up with the provision of such basic services as sewerage. We have frequently heard cited in this House the backlog in each of the State capitals in that respect. 
In the Bill before the House today we are tacking both these problems. The Lands Commissions are designed to acquire, subdivide, service and make available plots for residential purposes in competition with the various private undertakings engaged in this field. At the same time honourable members will have noticed in the last week negotiations reaching the point of conclusion on the matter of Commonwealth assistance for making good the backlog in sewerage services of the State capitals. They will have noticed that for the one year period immediately ahead such assistance will be provided in the form of low cost loans and that when the process of negotiation still under way is complete very greatly augmented sums will be provided not only in the form of low cost loans but also in the form of grants from the Australian Government to the States to see that this crucial backlog of services is made good. 
The Lands Commissions in themselves can have only a limited effect. I live 20 miles out from the centre of Melbourne. My electorate is 20 miles out from the centre of Melbourne and yet if the projected increase in the population of Melbourne, the increase which will take our population past 5 million by the year 2000, were to take place as scheduled the Casey electorate and the City of Croydon in which I live would become middle-distance suburbs in stead of outer suburbs. It is to this problem that the creation of new cities, and in the immediate sense the creation of AlburyWodonga, is addressed. The whole purpose of the setting up of the growth centres is to ensure that for the first time Australians are given a choice about where they shall establish their homes and to where they can look for appropriate opportunities in employment, recreation and all those things which make our cities acceptable places in which to live. 
It ie for this reason that we in this Government place such stress on the new cities program, for its liberating influence, for the fact that for the first time it gives the resident of Melbourne and the potential resident of Melbourne an opportunity to go and live somewhere else entirely without forsaking all the advantages of city life, and yet that alternative be a place other than the 5 State capitals. Similarly it gives an alternative to the person living at present in a rural community and obliged by economic pressures operating on that rural community to seek a different style of life in one of the established State capitals. That is why I was disappointed with the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  when he appeared to be over-anxious to have his cake and eat it in this matter of decentralisation, to argue at one and at the same time for the Country Party's traditional approach of dispersed development - a program which has been so conspicuous a failure over the years - and in the same sentence almost to argue for the program of concentrated development to which this Government is committed. The simple fact is that the resources are limited and we cannot have both. 
The question is not whether we will have 6 State capitals and the present arrangement of dispersed development. We will have effective decentralisation, we will guarantee the opportunity of the man on the land, the proprietor of the family farm, to stay where he is only through policies of concentrated development which scatter growth centres across this country on a systematic basis so that appropriate opportunities for recreation, for employment and for education are accessible to Australians wherever it is they may live. 

 - Mr Speaker, I raise a matter of privilege. Yesterday afternoon, the Canberra correspondent of the Melbourne 'Sun News-Pictorial' approached me and asked me whether I had written a letter to the Melbourne 'Sun NewsPictorial' advocating a No, No vote at next Saturday's referendum. I said that this was not the case. He advised me that a letter had been received at the office of the Melbourne 'Sun News-Pictorial' on House of Representatives notice paper, signed with what purported to be my signature. I read this letter to the House. It states: 
I move: 
That the matter of the letter dated 2 December 1973 written to the editor of the 'Sun News-Pictorial' in the name of the honourable member for Casey, and published in the Melbourne 'Sun News-Pictorial' on 6 December 1973 be referred to the Committee of Privileges. 
I hand to the  Clerk  of the House a copy of the letter concerned and a copy of the newspaper concerned. Judging from the interjections made already by honourable members opposite, there is some tendency on that side of the House to take the matter lightly. I suggest to those honourable members opposite, that there are at least 4 matters arising from this letter which should be of as much concern to them as to members on this side of the House. In the first place, I refer to the misuse of the stationery of this House; secondly, to the forgery of the signature of a member of this House to a letter for publication; thirdly, to the misrepresentation of the views of a member of this House who advocated a yes, yes vote at the referendum; and, fourthly, to the misrepresentation of the legal position in the matter of the prices question. 
Any honourable member opposite is as vulnerable as any honourable member on this side of the House to what have come to be known since Watergate as dirty tricks. I think it is the more important that this matter should go to the Committee of Privileges, representing, as it does, a disconcerting tendency in the political life of this country. Honourable members will have no trouble in recalling the way in which the Liberal Party inserted advertisements in the name of the convenor of the Australia Party,  Mr Gordon  Barton, at the time of the last election, encouraging Australia Party voters to depart from their Party card. Honourable members will have no trouble in recalling that in my own electorate of Casey the Liberal Party offered to pay the cost of printing the Australia Party how to vote cards if it would change its preference allocation. 
It is all true and it is all part and parcel of the same thing. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

I cannot imagine why honourable members opposite are so anxious that the matter should be hurried. If they found themselves in my position over this matter they might take a different view. It seems to me to be in the interests of every honourable member of this House that practices of this kind should be exposed and discouraged before they become more common. If honourable members on the other side of the House take another view, let them say so. It seems to be the case. I have cited two instances which have occurred in the last 12 months and which anticipated this particular event. I cite another - in my own electorate of Casey. Half an hour before nominations closed in that electorate there came the nomination of another supposedly independent candidate with the same name and the same initial as myself. He described himself as a student who, as soon as the- 
 I will,  Sir. I  want to say simply this: In the misappropriation of the stationery of the House, in the forging of an honourable member's signature, in the misrepresentation of the views of an honourable member to be put about in the community on the eve of an important referendum, in the misrepresentation of the legal position in respect of the prices question - we all know well that the legal opinion is in fact opposite to that expressed in the forgery, that when the questions of prices and incomes are raised together, in the event of the incomes question being lost, the prices power could certainly not be interpreted to cover incomes - in) those 4 important respects this is a matter that demands the attention of the House and of the Privileges Committee. When the stationery of the House can be filched, when the signature of an honourable member can be forged, when his views can be misrepresented, when the facts can be misrepresented, it is time we stopped worrying about the arrival of a Watergate situation because it is here already. The plumbers are among us. They have to be rooted out before it is too late. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What are the circumstances under which educational film libraries may be obliged to pay duty or other charges on films imported for previewing purposes. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What are the titles and dates of the reports prepared by or for the Bureau of Roads since its inception which were listed in response to the request the Prime Minister is understood to have made of all Departments in December 1972. 
What is the status of the various reports listed in part (1) with respect to making the contents available to the Parliament and the community. 
Will he take action to ensure that the unpublished reports of the Bureau of Roads are made public at an early date. 
The speech that we have just heard from the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  was one which would not have been delivered by any member of the Liberal Party even as recently as 12 months ago. Until recently the attitude taken by honourable members opposite was that sewerage, like the other problems of urban areas to which it is related, was beneath the notice of this House. I recall only two or three years ago the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  following the then Leader of the Opposition - now the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  - in the debate on the Budget and stigmatised the speech delivered by the Leader of the Opposition as one which could well have been delivered by any local government mayor because the Leader of the Opposition had emphasised the great number of Australians who did not have the advantage of sewered homes. Even now the figures are insufficiently appreciated. Too few of us realise that in Sydney alone 450,000 Australians are living in homes which are not connected to sewers. In Melbourne the figure is 370,000; in Brisbane more than 100,000; and in Perth more than 330,000. 
I have always felt that the indifference of honourable members opposite to this particular problem was related directly to the fact that so few of them had had their attention sharpened by the stink of an outside privy in high summer in an outer suburb or the noise of the night cart rumbling by in the small hours of the morning. It is a mark of the increasing maturity of this Parliament and its increasing preparedness to come to grips with the problems which are of concern to ordinary Australians that we can hear tonight a speech such as that given by the honourable member for Parramatta. I congratulate him on his acknowledgment of a problem which his predecessor in that seat would never have condescended to notice. 
I thought that that honourable member for Parramatta was a trifle unfair in his reference to the Government's approach to this problem. He made great play of the word 'grant' and endeavoured to suggest that there had been some departure from Government undertakings in this matter. The fact is that when the word grant' is used in this House it is used within the context of section 96 of the Constitution which enables the Australian Government to make funds available to the States for such purposes and on such conditions as it may specify. So we have the possibility of making grants which are a donation to a State government under section 96 of the Constitution, carrying no interest rate and requiring no repayment. We have equally the possibility of grants being made to State governments which must be repaid and which bear interest at rates which vary from time to time. Finally, these are loans made available to State governments through the deliberations of the Loan Council. 
This grant for which the Bill provides is, of course, an interest-bearing repayable grant available to State governments over and above their entitlements as determined by the Loan Council. These are technical economic distinctions recognised by every member of this Parliament. To quibble over the semantics of the matter is simply an exercise in politicking unworthy of the honourable member in discussing a matter of this importance. The honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards),  who is sitting at the table, would recognise the importance^ - requiring repayment and charging interest especially in the context of a single year program before it has been possible to carry out detailed investigations into the sewerage requirement of the nation. He would know this because he would have familiarised himself with the Coombs report, and he would know what the Coombs report had to say under the section headed 'Pricing Policy'. To refresh his memory I read a section of that report. It says: 
In many public investment projects it is feasible to impose charges for the services provided. Generally it is desirable that such prices should reflect the costs of providing services although there are circumstances where economic principles justify a departure from this general rule. It is nevertheless important that criteria should be established to guide those who set prices for public enterprises so that waste may be avoided. 
I know that in the cause of politics the honourable gentleman is frequently anxious to disregard and disown the tradition of economic probity to which he owes allegiance but I doubt that he would want to deny a paragraph such as the one I have just quoted. The report continues: 
It is the function of prices to allocate resources to purposes where they best satisfy the demands of the consumer. If services are underpriced in relation to the cost (including capital) of providing them, it may well become necessary to divert resources from other purposes to satisfy the demand for them. Where services are provided with capital equipment in large units it may sometimes be good sense, once the equipment has been established, to provide the services at a price which will ensure its full usage even if this is less than the full economic cost. However it must be remembered that this exception will no longer apply when duplication or extension of the capital equipment is required by demand expanded by the low prices initially set to encourage full use of the original equipment .... 
I would have thought that this was basic economics of the sort our children are taught if not in the final year of their high school courses, then certainly in their first year of university. I would have thought that it was the sort of economics which the honourable member for Berowra has been teaching for years, and I am disappointed that he showed such a readiness, by interjection and by movement of the head, to depart from it. This House has not been strong on economics. When we have a former professor of economics such as the honourable member for Berowra coming among us with his special background, we look to him to raise the expert quality of debate on issues of this kind. 
Having said that and having drawn the attention of the House to the quite specific and undeniable usage of the word 'grant' as it is understood by all persons concerned with implementing the provisions of the Australian Constitution, I should like to go on and say that this Government, unlike any of its predecessors stretching back as far as Federation, does recognise the very heavy debt burdens of local government and semi-government authorities and the inhibitions which the debt burden imposes on these authorities in providing the services which Australians have come to expect of them. We know that in the coming year the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board of New South Wales is required to spend no less than 43c in every dollar of its revenue, and in most years more than 50c in every dollar, on servicing its debts. We know that the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works in my State of Victoria spends 58c in every dollar on servicing its debts; that in Queensland the comparable figure is 28c in every dollar; in South Australia 47c in every dollar; and in Western Australia, 37c in every dollar. 
The honourable member for Petrie interjects to ask why we are charging interest on the grants which are being made to the States for the purpose of providing sewerage services. He should be able to see that there is no contradiction between a concern for the overall debt burden of local government and semi-government authorities and a concern for seeing that proper pricing policies are followed in the provision of public services. 
As I have already emphasised, the loans for which this Bill makes provision - the repayable interest-bearing grants for which this Bill makes provision - are for a period of one year only. We were anxious to get the program off the ground. Accordingly, we did it on this basis. In future years when we will be providing much larger grants than those envisaged in the present Bill with a view to meeting our deadline by 1978 or very shortly thereafter, we again will be making those grants on the basis of their being repayable and bearing interest. At the same time we will be making grants in the other sense of section 96 of the Constitution - that is, grants which neither bear interest nor are repayable - for the purpose of reducing the interest burdens of the authorities concerned. Economic wisdom and good government can be served simultaneously. 
While the honourable member for Petrie on his populist kick can continue interjecting, I am sure that the honourable member for Berowra would see the wisdom of what I have been saying. 
The great backlog in sewerage services with which the Bill deals had had a detrimental effect on the health of the outer suburbs of our great capital cities inasmuch as it is in those areas that the incidence of diseases such as gastro-enteritis and hepatitis has risen most dramatically in the post-war period. It has exacerbated the increasing level of pollution in all our outer suburban areas, and the pollution of streams such as the Yarra River which drain those areas, and bays such as Port Phillip into which the Yarra River drains. It also has exacerbated the shortage of residential land and the high cost of residential land. We have the position, as the honourable member for Parramatta pointed out earlier, that bodies such as the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works are increasingly imposing on private developers a planning requirement that they should not subdivide their land holdings until they themselves are able to provide sewerage services. While the honourable member for Parramatta deplores the fact that the present grants are to be made available at the long term bond rate, certainly the rates of interest paid by private developers on the money they must borrow to sewer their land holdings - which, of course, they pass on directly to the buyers of residential land - is an infinitely heavier burden. 
Let me say in conclusion that the sewerage program which is being put into effect through the Bill we are discussing tonight represents a culmination of one of the first initiatives taken by the present Government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wrote to the Premiers very early in December 1972, asking them to outline for him the grants that they could put to use in expanding sewerage services, not in the now current financial year but in what then remained of the last financial year. It is an index or a mark of the lassitude and apathy of the States that, whilst the Premier of Queensland to his credit was very prompt off the mark and replied to the Prime Minister's letter in January, it took the Premier of Victoria, who is one of the most vocal of all the Premiers, no fewer than 3 months - until the end of March - to get around to replying to the Prime Minister's letter, and when he did get around to it, instead of taking advantage of the Prime Minister's offer of funds for the then financial year, he specified funds for the financial year 1973-74. It exemplifies of the difficulties of implementing a system of co-operative federalism in this country when such delays occur. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr England)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What was the amount per capita spent for students at (a) universities and (b) colleges of advanced education in (i) each State and Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth in 1971-72 (Hansard, 26 October 1972, page 3490). 
I ask the Minister for Services and Property whether he will make special arrangements at the Senate elections to minimise public confusion arising from recent suggestions that one of the parties contesting those elections is not needed and that its best known member should join another party to stave off right wing influences? 

 - Mr Speaker, you must have been astonished to hear the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox),  who has just resumed his seat advocating that the Australian people should be given an opportunity to express their opinion at referendums on a number of matters which are of great importance for the national sentiment developing in this country, when over the last 12 months the honourable member voted against the Australian people being consulted by way of referendum no fewer than 7 times. On the question of local government representation on the Loan Council and on the question of the control of prices and incomes - on no fewer than 7 separate occasions - the honourable member has voted that the Australian people's opinion should not be heard.  Sir, you  would have been equally astonished to hear the honourable member for Henty advocating the discredited system of Commonwealth secondary scholarships which this Government has replaced with a system of bursaries for low income families. These bursaries will be used exclusively in order to provide a full secondary education for students who would otherwise have been obliged to leave school. It is well known that under the system of Commonwealth secondary scholarships the honourable member for Henty advocated, fewer than 4 per cent of the children who got awards would otherwise have been obliged to leave school. The system was a betrayal not only of logic and humanity, but also of the wish of Prime Minister Menzies that secondary scholarships should provide assistance for needy students and their families. 
There are members of this House who will recall that Winston Churchill told the House of Commons in 1947 that democracy is the worst form of government except all the other forms that have been tried from time to time. Honourable members who attach an equal or greater value to the institution of parliamentary democracy must view with alarm the loss of confidence in those institutions which is being revealed at successive elections around the world. Even before the present stalemate in the House of Commons, public opinion polls revealed that a majority of the British people had lost faith in the ability of any leader or political party to cope adequately with the problems by which their country is confronted. Even before the Watergate tragedy that destroyed  President  Nixon and set in train the destruction of the Republican Party, opinion polls showed that between 1958 and 1970 the number of white Americans who believed that government is run by the people's representatives for the benefit of the people had declined from 74 per cent to 45 per cent, while the number who believed that government is run by big interests for their own sake rose correspondingly from 18 per cent to 48 per cent. Among black Americans the number who believed that government is run by the people for the people declined from 78 per cent to 34 per cent, and the number who believed that government is run by big interests for the sake of big business rose from 12 per cent to 63 per cent. Increasingly in all the countries of the European Economic Community, in Scandinavia and throughout the Englishspeaking democracies, there is a mood of disillusionment and cynicism about members of parliament, the institution of parliament and the democratic process itself. Events are preparing the way for men on horseback who will echo Cromwell's call to the Rump Parliament: 
It is not fit that you should sit here any longer . . . you shall now give place to better men. 
Depart, I say, let us have done with you. In the name of God - go. 
In this as in so many other matters, Australia so far has been the lucky country, but we should not push our luck too far. Australians have not as yet lost all faith in their Parliament, but cynical displays of shadow-boxing such as those to which the House was subjected this afternoon by honourable members opposite will ultimately make the nation turn away from democracy in despair. 
Is there any honourable member of this House who did not hear criticism during the recent recess of the larrikin conduct which led in the last session to a number of suspensions and would have led to even more suspensions if you,  Sir, had  not exercised forebearance. Is there any honourable member who has not had contemptuous comments made to him about the way in which precious parliamentary time has been taken away from legislation and other important business by points of order, personal explanations and wrangles over the allocation of hours for debate? Is there anyone who has not been confronted by angry constituents with the way misuse of statistics, distortion of facts, insult, innuendo and downright lies have been used to undermine legislative proposals of which no reasoned criticism could be offered. 
Let me illustrate the sort of parliamentary conduct which arouses the indignation of decent, honest members of the community by referring briefly to the speech which was made in this debate last Thursday by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  Let me illustrate by referring to an occasion on which, as an intelligent man, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition could not have believed a single word he said. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said: 
The great Australian dream of home ownership has been shattered by the Government's housing policies. 
That was untrue, because the Deputy Leader of the Opposition knows that the rate at which houses have become available over the last year has been limited not by Government policy but by the resources of a building industry, which is working at full capacity, and the Government is doing everything it can to expand that capacity. Then the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said: 
The Government's monetary programs have restricted the availability of housing finance to the extent that building society loan approvals for the year ended January .1974 have fallen by 52 per cent 
That was deliberately misleading, because the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was well aware of the fact that at a time when the resources of the building industry are already fully employed, reductions in interest rates on housing loans would serve not to increase the supply of houses but to force up the price of houses which are already available. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition promised that a Liberal government would provide government assistance for those purchasing their first home; that it would establish a housing guidance bureau in co-operation with the States; and that it would investigate the implementation of a home repayments scheme to guarantee loans and restructure loan repayments for low and middle income earners. But he did not enlarge on how these measures would help young couples cope with the problem to which he referred - the absolute shortage of housing, the inherited shortage of housing in Australia which is the product of 23 years of misguided housing policies. He did not explain how a Liberal government would help these couples pay the higher capital costs of houses in a market forced up by the availability of the low interest loans he was advocating. He did not explain what more a Liberal government could do. to bring down the cost of labour, land and materials for houses than the present Government is already doing. The origins of the present problems in the field of housing are well known. In the months before the 1972 election the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon.  and the then Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  increased the supply of money circulating in Australia more rapidly than ever before in our history. If there is any doubt about it, let me quote from an article in the Australian Financial Review' of January last. It stated: 
There can be no denying the fact that the Labor Government upon achieving power in December 1972 was faced with an underlying growth in the money supply of more than 25 per cent a year. In the last 6 months of 1972, the money supply grew by almost 17 per cent. The growth for that full financial year, 1972-73, was over 26 per cent. 
At the very time when a great increase in the supply of money in the community was being engineered by the then government in order to win political kudos for itself in a difficult election year, the banks were being encouraged to lend money to all comers and for all purposes. There was, of course, a corresponding increase in demand not only for housing but also for the office blocks and other forms of commercial building which compete with housing for the resources of the construction industry. But while the then Government encouraged this great flow of money into the housing industry, it did nothing to provide the extra materials and skilled workers which the industry needed in order to cope with this extra demand, and as a result in the last few months of 1972 and in the first 6 months of 1973 housing prices took off in the classic inflationary spiral of 'too much money chasing too few goods'. 
The only way in which the new Australian Government could keep the demands upon the building industry within the industry's capacity to meet them was by allowing interest rates to rise. I remind the honourable member for Henty that the Government of which he was a supporter allowed interest rates to rise in 1963, 1964 and 1970 for precisely the same purpose. In taking this difficult and utterly distasteful step, the Government insisted that increases in interest payments should be kept lower for home owners than for other borrowers. It arranged that in the coming Budget interest on home loans will be deductible for income tax purposes. It reduced the cost of home insurance where it was able to do so through the Commonwealth Bank, and launched a determined attack on costly bottlenecks in the construction industry, such as shortages of building materials and workers, outmoded methods and the excessive number of building codes.  Mr Speaker,  I draw to your attention a report which appeared in the Melbourne 'Herald' on 12 January and showed these moves had been successful. Last year's steep escalation in housing costs is over, and the price of houses is actually coming down. 
Another thing which makes Australians cynical about this Parliament is the Orwellian practice of rewriting history which members opposite have appropriated from the pages of "Nineteen Eighty-four'. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is particularly zealous in trying to put over the idea that it was never the intention of the Opposition to exact SI 14m as the price of allowing passage for the $700m Karmel program of grants to needy government and Catholic schools. Unfortunately for the honourable member for Wannon we have not yet arrived at the stage when Big Brother can have a whole issue of Hansard pulped in the interests of newspeak, and the record shows on page 3890 that he said in debate on 27 November 1973: 
The Opposition parties will be opposing the repeal of that earlier legislation ... it is our conviction that it ought not to be repealed. 
It was not until the morning's debate that day was over and the Opposition parties realised the enormity of the action they had taken that the honourable member for Wannon came back into the House with the lame explanation that it was not $114m that was wanted at all but $7m or $8m. 
The honourable member revealed by his stand on that occasion not only the depths of his own conservatism which are well-known in this House but also the fact that the conditions under which students at government and Catholic schools receive their education remains as much a mystery to him in Opposition as they were when he held the Education portfolio. Now, as then, the honourable member and those who sit behind him show a complete disinterest in the reports on conditions in government and Catholic schools which have been prepared by bodies such as the Inner Suburban Education Committee, the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare, various organisations of teachers and parents, the migrant education task force and the Interim Schools Commission itself. 
The fourth matter I want to mention, because it plays so large a part in the attitude which the people of Australia take to this Parliament and the parties which operate within it, is the attitude the Opposition is taking to local government. In his amendment to the Address-in-Reply this afternoon the 
Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  commented that the Australian Government had attempted to change the Federal system of the Australian Constitution by diminishing the responsibility of the States. Of course the Australian Government has set about changing the Australian Constitution. It set about changing the Australian Constitution so that local government, the third tier of the Federal system in this country, will be given a proper voice in the affairs of the country for the first time. Last year in pursuit of this goal we were able to bring in the Grants Commission Bill which gave local governments access for the first time to national revenues through the Grants Commission. I recall that the Opposition at that time was undecided. Its maverick members in the Senate were anxious to defeat the Bill. But wiser counsels prevailed at that time and the Opposition decided that it could not afford to bring down on its head the wrath of more than 900 local government bodies scattered throughout Australia. 
Our second move in the direction of putting local government on the constitutional map was to seek to give local government representation on the Loan Council. Honourable members would know that local governments, far more than the Australian Government or the State governments, is dependent upon loan moneys for the work it does. Yet, extraordinarily, local government is the only level of government in this country which is given no say in the making of loan policy. So the Prime Minister proposed to the Premiers at their meeting last year that by consent local government should be included in the deliberations of the Loan Council. The Premiers, jealous of their political prestige and fearful that local government could grow up in the Loan Council to wield a political influence equivalent to their own, turned thumbs down on the proposal, making it necessary that a referendum should be held. The Opposition, instead of facilitating such a referendum as one might have hoped, instead of letting the Australian people have a free choice and a free vote on the subject of whether they wanted in effect a 2-tier federalism or a 3-tier federalism, opposed at every stage the Bill we brought in to make the referendum possible. 
Everywhere I go I find local government people speaking with excitement and enthusiasm about the functions such as social welfare, health care, conservation and the development of leisure facilities, which they can perform so much better than either the Australian Government or the State governments. The Opposition threatens us with a great waste of dedication and enthusiasm at this level of government when it tries to revert to the old practice whereby local government was left to the mercy of State governments and divided an effective voice in national deliberations. The Australian people, I find, are simply- no longer willing to leave to Canberra, or in the case of my own State to leave to Spring Street, decisions which they know should be taken in their own community. This is why we are trying to facilitate to see that decisions are taken as close as possible to the people who will be affected by them. 
The honourable member for Petrie interjects to query whether this Government's policy would allow local government bodies to make these decisions. The honourable member will be aware that for 23 years and particularly for the most recent six of those years - 
My question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development is supplementary to those asked by the honourable members for Kingston and Scullin, and recalls to him the 23 years neglect of the problems of Australian cities. Is it inevitable that any cutback in public spending which would be undertaken following promises made by Opposition spokesmen would be made at the expense of urban projects such as those in the outer eastern suburbs of Melbourne? Can he say what are the projects which would be curtailed by such a cutback? 
I am constantly surprised by the lack of faith and trust which Australian Country Party members of this House show in the people who send them here. The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  said - 1 hope I quote him correctly - that millions of acres of which he is aware would not be worth a crumpet if it were not for superphosphate. 
I agree with the honourable member for Darling Downs that it is true but Country Party members constantly imply that if it were not for the Government's superphosphate bounty, superphosphate would not be applied. I am confident that simple economic interest in the farming community will see that the application of superphosphate is maintained in these times of unprecedented rural prosperity. Although the honourable member for Paterson claimed that more man $300m had been withdrawn from the rural community in subsidies, he did not set this figure, tendentious as it is, in its proper economic context of rising rural incomes. In the 3 years ended 1969-70 farm income averaged about $ 1,050m a year. The onset of drought and the declining prices caused farm incomes to drop to $885m a year in 1970-71 and many producers faced serious financial difficulties. Last year saw a complete reversal of this situation and until recently the estimate for farm income in 1973-74 was $2,885m - more than 3 times as great as in 1970-71 and well over double the average income for the 3 years before then. 
I make the simple point to the honourable member for Paterson, and to our other Country Party colleagues in the Parliament, that this Government is not opposed to helping rural industries which are really in need, but it is opposed to helping those industries in times when they can help themselves. Let those industries go to the Industries Assistance Commission when times are hard and they will find this Government open handed in whatever assistance the Commission recommends. What we members on this side of the House query is whether rural subsidies should be built perpetually into the financial structure of this country, enduring long after the crisis adduced by Country Party Ministers for Primary Industry as grounds for their introduction. 
Again, I was surprised to hear the honourable member for Paterson refer in critical terms to the condition of the beaches at Maroubra and Bondi. It might have been supposed he had only just discovered this problem. He spoke as if the sewerage authorities in New South Wales had previously been treating the sewage by which these beaches are now being polluted and had suddenly closed down. The fact is that New South Wales, like other States throughout this country, has never been able to afford to provide proper sewerage reticulation and treatment plants because of the financial stringency practised in this field by a LiberalCountry Party Coalition Government over 23 years. Repeatedly applications for assistance with sewerage projects were made and as repeatedly they were rejected by our predecessors. Honourable members opposite are critical of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  because they say he has not allocated sufficient funds to this year's sewerage program. I hope they will not deny that this is the first Government since 'Federation which has taken the sewerage problem seriously, which in fact, has made money available and committed itself to make more money available in the years ahead. Finally, I was also surprised to hear the honourable member for Paterson express confusion about the circumstances under which this Government will be making money available to local government through the Grants Commission, because the Grants Commission system has been in operation in this country now for over 40 years. I do not remember the honourable member previously expressing the same doubts about whether money would be forthcoming in all the years the Grants Commission - the Commonwealth Grants Commission, as it then was - carried out regular inquiries into the needs of the claimant States. It was recognised and accepted at the time that the Grants Commission was an independent body carrying out an objective inquiry into the needs of the claimant States and that, while having no funds of its own to allocate, it would make recommendations to the Government each year which the Government would accept. I do not recall at any time the recommendations of the Grants Commission being knocked back by any government. Yet the honourable member for Paterson, who as a member of this House has received annual reports of the Grants Commission over a period of years, now all of a sudden finds that there is something baffling about the formula. The new aspect is that this Government realised that discrepancies in the services capacities of smaller States such as Tasmania and Western Australia and the larger States such as New South Wales and Victoria are now much exceeded by discrepancies between regions within the States. This Government has given to local government bodies for the first time the right to approach the Grants Commission, to state a case to the Commission and to have the commission make a recommendation on their needs to the Government. 
The honourable member for Paterson asks when they are to get the money. The system has always been that, following the recommendation of the Grants Commission, an appropriation was made in the next Budget and the money was subsequently disbursed. The honourable member for Paterson has no reason to suppose that the Government will be departing from these long established arrangements. I can say to the honourable member that the municipalities in my own electorate, making up as they do region 16 in the State of Victoria, were the first to have an opportunity to put their case to the Grants Commission. I can say too that the people who put the case to the Grants Commission for region 16 were delighted not only with the courtesy of the reception they received from the commissioners, but also with the deep knowledge of local government finance which those commissioners revealed. The doubts which the honourable member for Paterson has expressed tonight about the approach adopted by the Australian Government in this matter of local government finance are certainly not shared by those councils which have had experience of a Grants Commission hearing. 
Suggestions are constantly being made, and have been made most recently by the Victorian Premier,  Mr Hamer,  and the Victorian Minister for Local Government,  Mr Hunt,  that in agreeing to give local government access for the first time to national revenues through the Grants Commission and in endeavouring to give local government a voice for the first time on the Loan Council the Australian Government has engaged, in some way, in a conspiracy to rob local government of its autonomy. The honourable member for Paterson made the point that State departments for local government had been the benevolent guardians of local government in the past and were currently best placed to understand the needs of local gov ernment and disburse funds for local government. 1 would not be so bold as to comment on the local government department of New South Wales under which the honourable member for Paterson worked when he was a councillor, but I would say categorically that that is not the experience or the impression of local councillors in Victoria. 
Local government throughout Australia has been kept in a state of artifical dependence. The Act the Government passed last year giving local government access to national revenues through the Grants Commission was an important step forward, but it merely reduces the degree of dependence. If local government is to have a status equal to the status of the Australian Government and the State governments it must have a place on the Loan Council, not merely because of the prestige associated with that place but also for the very practical reason that this would give local government for the first time an effective lever in bargaining both with the States and with the Australian Government. In the past local government has always been in the unhappy position of a supplicant having nothing with which to bargain. In proposing that local government should take its place on the Loan Council with all the attendant opportunities for bargaining and leverage the Australian Government makes abundantly clear its determination that local government should be an equal, independent, autonomous part of the Australian federal system. 
The honourable member for Petrie interjects that this also strengthens the power of the central Government. This merely reveals that the honourable member for Petrie is unaware of the mode of operation of the Loan Council and of the proposals for the composition of the Loan Council should local government take its place there. At present the Loan Council consists of the 6 States Premiers, the Treasurer and the Prime Minister. Under the arrangements proposed by the Australian Government there would still be the 6 Premiers, 6 representatives elected by and from local councillors in each State through a process of free election by a method to bc determined by the councillor; themselves, and 4 representatives of the Australian Government. How the honourable member for Petrie sees this as a means of strengthening the influence of the Australian 
Government in the Loan Council defies analysis. 
This morning, following question time, we again had the spectacle of honourable members opposite endeavouring to make personal explanations on the grounds that they had been misrepresented collectively by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  who asserted that members of the Liberal Party had opposed the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1973. The attempt to make a personal explanation was pressed most energetically by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Lady Macbeth crying 'Out damned spot' may be a tragic figure, but the honourable member for Wannon denying that he ever intended to scuttle the recommendations of the Karmel Committee is simply ridiculous. Australians who have the interest of government and Catholic schools at heart are not going to forget easily or soon how the honourable member for Wannon held up the States Grants (Schools) Bill late last year in a last ditch effort to exact $114m overwhelmingly for the benefit of children who already enjoy an education of very high quality. They have not forgotten how the honourable member for Wannon did his utmost to amend legislation establishing the Schools Commission along lines which would have made the Commission unworkable. 
The States Grants (Schools) Bill 1973 made provision, in clause 66, for raising $114m towards the $700m cost of the Karmel recommendations by repealing the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972 and reapportioning funds allocated under that Act. Despite the fact that the Karmel recommendations could not have been put into effect without clause 66 having first been passed and that additional money having been made available the honourable member for Wannon in his second reading speech on 27 November 1973 said: 
The Opposition Parties will be opposing the repeal of that earlier legislation ... It is our conviction that it should not be repealed. 
There was no suggestion of a deal or a compromise for some smaller figure as has subsequently been suggested, notably by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  The honourable member for Wannon was determined to block the legislation or exact $114m as the price of giving it passage, and he stated his intention in the clearest terms when he said: 
The Opposition Parties will be opposing the repeal of that earlier legislation ... -It is our conviction that it should not be repealed. 
It was only over lunch that the Opposition became aware of the enormity of the position to which it had committed itself and in the Committee stages of the debate the honourable member for Wannon began to drop hints that a deal might be arranged on the basis of some smaller amount than $114m. However in a Press statement the same evening he was still insisting: 
What the Opposition has done is to refuse to vote to repeal our 1972 legislation establishing per capita grants. If that view is taken by a majority in the Senate, that Act will stay on the Statute Books in full force. That action is only continuing an obligation which now rests upon the Government and the Government should not have assumed that there would be a majority for the limitation of that obligation to 1973 alone. If the Senate supports our view the Government would have a full obligation under its own legislation and a full obligation under our continuing legislation to make payments to schools. We have power to do this because we are not imposing an additional obligation upon the Government. We are merely refusing to repeal a present obligation on the Government. 
The honourable member for Wannon made it crystal clear in this Press statement that there were no lengths to which he would not go in imposing a narrow and sectional demand on the Government. He made it clear that if the Government denied his demand honourable members opposite were fully prepared and determined to deprive the Government of the funds it needed to give effect to the Karmel recommendations. There is no reason why this House should be surprised at this attitude on the part of the honourable member for Wannon and other honourable members opposite. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti).Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Nobody in this House would expect objectivity from the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  or from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who preceded him in this debate, but we have come to expect from the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  a thoughtful, constructive and above all fair-minded contribution to the debates in which he takes part. It is therefore the more to be regretted that he chose to involve himself today in an attempt to palm off on this Government the blame for the shortages of housing by which so many Australian families are currently disadvantaged. The honourable gentleman attributed the housing shortage so overwhelmingly to interest rates which are simply a tool which all governments - including governments he has supported in the past - use to keep demand for housing within the resources available to meet it. I regret that he did not cut to the heart of the' natter - to the shortfall of resources such as skilled labour, building materials and land, which is the real cause of housing difficulties at this time. I regret that because the honourable gentleman, in taking this line, was treating the subject in a superficial manner which was unworthy of him. 
The housing shortage in this country is too serious, too long-standing and above all too costly in terms of human misery to be exploited in an insincere and partisan manner for purely political purposes. Honourable members opposite who imagine that there is some sort of advantage to be gained, either inside this chamber or elsewhere, by blaming the Government for problems which not only arise but which also generally seen to arise from its inheritance and not from its actions, are deceiving .themselves. It is not the Government that they bring into discredit, but themselves. 
Last week we heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  put forward what he called the Liberal Party's policy on housing. We have heard that policy put forward again today by .the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Those two gentlemen said that a Liberal Government would provide government assistance for those purchasing their first home; that a Liberal Government would establish a housing guidance bureau in co-operation with the States; .that a Liberal government would investigate the implementation of a home repayments scheme to guarantee loans and restructure loan repayments for low and middle income earners; and finally that a Liberal government would reduce interest rates. 
I find it difficult to believe that the honourable member for Herbert, as the Opposition spokesman for housing and as a man who has taken some trouble to inform himself on the problems of the housing industry could have been shown these proposals before they were announced by the Leader of the Opposition. He would have recognised that they were a cruel hoax on the people of this country who are attempting to find homes. I do not believe that he, as a man of honesty and some compassion, would have associated himself with a hoax of that kind. The record shows very clearly that the Liberal Party has been incapable of stepping up the rate of supply of housing in this country by as much as a single dwelling. The Liberal Party is now promising govern ment assistance for couples buying their first home in the certainty that, if it were returned to office, there would be no homes available for very many of those couples as there were no homes available for very many of the couples who wanted them throughout the last 23 years. The Liberal Party is offering to set up a home guidance bureau, but that home guidance bureau will have nothing to show its clients. The Liberal Party is promising lower interest rates when it knows perfectly well and has been reminded by events as recently as last year that, in the absence of increased supplies of housing, lower interest rates simply mean soaring prices and a widening deposit gap. 
I find it remarkable that the Liberal Party spokesmen, including all three of the honourable members opposite who have contributed to the debate today, should have concerned themselves so exclusively with the market end of housing - with the acts of purchasing a home and obtaining a loan for a home - to the complete neglect of the crucial question of how extra homes are to be constructed. The Economic Research Department of the Housing Industry Association has placed the blame for housing shortages where it belongs - on the fact that under successive Liberal governments this country paid far too little attention to increasing the supply of skilled workers in the building trades, too little attention to increasing the capacity of the industries which produce building materials, and too little attention to increasing the .supply of subdivided serviced land on which houses could be built. I am not surprised that the honourable member for Herbert failed to mention the shortages of skilled labour, of materials and land which are stopping so many young Australians from acquiring the homes of which they dream, because all those shortages arose under governments of which he was a supporter. Whereas the Housing Industry Association estimates that at least 10,000 additional skilled building tradesmen are needed each year, the number actually made, available to the industry by our predecessors in their last year of office was barely 7,000. The number of building trades apprentices who completed their indentures in the last year of Liberal-Country Party coalition government was actually lower than it was in 1969 or 1970. The number of skilled building workers recruited overseas has been falling steadily. In 1969 it was 6,493; in 1970 it was 5,584; in 1971 it was 4,217; and in 1972 it was a miserable 3,100. 
Honourable members have rightly expressed concern over the fact that the price of a block of land has risen since 1960 by 369 per cent in Sydney, by 167 per cent in Melbourne and by 131 per cent in Brisbane. But we should be equally concerned - perhaps more concerned - by the fact that, as the Housing Industry Association has told us, 'supply of serviced allotments in many major growth areas is now little more than half annual demand by home builders'. I hope that the honourable member for Herbert would not attribute this situation to the Government or suggest that it has arisen for the first time in the IS months since the Government has been in office. The Housing Industry Association, which is an objective analyst in these matters, has apportioned the blame where it belongs - on the failure of State governments to provide the sewerage, drainage and other reticulated services upon which the availability of residential land depends, and the failure of successive national governments to make available funds for mis purpose. It has pointed out that 'withholdings related to speculation and investment withdraws land from the market, limiting supply for genuine home builders'. I remind the honourable member for Herbert that traditionally speculators in urban land have been the friend and patrons of his party and not of this Government. 
The Whitlam Government, has taken action across the board to confront the real problems of borne building in Australia. In order to supply additional building workers it has fostered apprenticeship, fostered retraining of workers from areas in which redundancies are occurring, fostered a world wide search for tradesmen who can be brought to this country as settlers, fostered an inquiry under  Mr Justice  Aird into the issue of permanency which has driven so many skilled building workers out of their field over recent years. In order to improve the supply of building materials, we have augmented the capacity of the local industry with imports. The revaluations that members opposite have so fiercely opposed and the 25 per cent tariff cut has allowed imported building materials to become available in this country at prices competitive with local products- 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What action has been taken following representations on the adoption of Indo-Chinese war orphans I made to him on 18 June and 27 July 1973. 
Can the Minister for Housing and Construction see advantages in directing a greater flow of funds for housing through terminating building societies? Has his attention been drawn to statements by some State authorities that they would be opposed to such a direction of funds? Can he perceive any possibility of action in this field in the immediate future? 
I ask the Minister for Services and Property a question in his capacity as Minister in charge of electoral arrangements. Has his attention been drawn to complaints made as recently as last week that there is still ignorance in some quarters as to the outcome of the recent elections? Has his attention been drawn to complaints from the same sources that the election held on 18 May was the wrong election at the wrong time? Can he say whether these statements reflect shortcomings in the electoral arrangements for which he is responsible? If not, can he say whether there is any justification for the complaints and whether they come from :in authoritative source? 
Is the Minister for Education aware that government primary schools at Victorian centres such as Antonio Park, Croydon North and Hallam in Victoria, which had expected to get primary school libraries with Karmel grants this year or next year, are now being told that these libraries will not be built until 1976 or later? Is he aware that since claims that this delay has been occasioned by slowness in the flow of funds from the Australian Government have been exploded, it is being claimed the delay arises through failure of the Australian Government to provide blueprints for the libraries concerned? Has the Government ever given an undertaking that blueprints of this nature were required or would be provided? If the Victorian Education Department is incapable of providing plans for libraries will the Minister consider amending the States Grants (Schools) Act 1973 so that grants can be given directly to the school organisations concerned and they can get on with the job? 
-There is nothing like a debate on a down-to-earth topic such as health to expose the gulf that separates the Liberal Party from the problems of an average Australian family. Every word we heard this morning from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Opposition spokesman on health and social security, the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  showed clearly that they are out of touch with the health care services upon which an overwhelming majority of Australian families are obliged to rely. Every calamity which they predicted as a result of the health scheme which we are debating this afternoon is already part and parcel of health care arrangements for which the Opposition is responsible and with which every ordinary Australian family becomes involved in times of sickness or injury. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that under Labor's alternative national health program patients would have to wait and wait in doctor's surgeries for their medical attention. I will show him surgeries located for miles around his home, which is situated in my electorate, in which sick people, frightened people, crying children and victims of accidents waited hours this morning for medical attention, as they wait each day of each year under the Liberal health arrangements which did not occasion him any concern in 23 years. 
I hear members of the Country Party disagreeing with me. Perhaps they have a different experience. Every member on either side who represents a suburban electorate knows that this is the truth and the waiting goes on. I know because last week my wife and my child waited for 3 hours under those conditions in a suburban surgery. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that under Labor's alternative health scheme people would have to wait, wait, wait until hospital beds were available before they could undergo elective surgery. Is there any public hospital in which this was not the case throughout 23 years of Liberal Party Government of this country? Honourable members opposite are no more able to understand the state of ordinary medical and hospital services to which they would never dream of entrusting themselves or their families than they are able to understand the ordinary schools to which they would never send their children. I have no doubt that the honourable member for Hotham thinks that he is making a point when he says that 80 per cent of Australians choose to insure themselves for hospital care at the intermediate or private ward level. It would never occur to the honourable member to use these services himself. He is obviously unaware that apart from the people of Queensland everybody is means tested out of a public ward. They have no option but to insure themselves at that level. It is a proscription. It is utter presumption for Opposition members to pontificate, as they have today, on community health services of which they have never had personal experience. The criticisms which they made this morning were not based on the shabby congested surgeries and public hospitals of the outer suburbs on which ordinary people rely for health services. They were based on the air-conditioned consulting rooms of Collins Street and on the single bed private hospital wards to which Opposition members turn in times of need; on those private hospitals for which the honourable member for Hotham has always reserved his greatest eloquence and his sincerest concern. Under the agreement made between the Whips that is the limit of the contribution which I can make today. I am glad that I had an opportunity to speak. 
That the proposed law, namely the Health Insurance Commission Act 1 973, be affirmed. 
Pursuant to rule 1 1 the Joint Sitting will divide. 
Ring the bells. 
Question put: 
The Joint Sitting divided. (The  Chairman- Hon.  J. F. Cope) 
I ask the Minister for Urban and Regional Development a question. Last year the Government set out to provide sewerage services for one and half million Australians whose homes are not connected to any completed sewerage works, the first national government ever to involve itself in the provision of this essential basic urban service. The Minister will recall that this was done by providing loans at the long term bond rate. I ask the Minister Is it intended to impose the same terms and conditions for assistance under the national sewerage program in 1974-75 as were imposed in 1973-74? If not, on what terms and conditions will assistance be provided? 
-Let me sketch in the parameters of this sewerage problem. The number of houses unsewered at present is 161,000 in New South Wales, 140,000 in Victoria, 102,000 in Western Australia, 74,000 in Queensland, 14,000 in South Australia and 3,000 in Tasmania. Those figures are for the capital cities- and major urban centres- of the States concerned. If we consider the matter in terms of percentages the position is 16.3 per cent in New South Wales, 16.2 per cent in Victoria, 19.2 per cent in Queensland, 5.1 per cent in South Australia, 4.6 per cent in Tasmania and 39.6 per cent in Western Australia. In the past year, 1973-74, the Australian Government set out to do something about this problem by building 79 reticulation projects, 35 main, sub-main and carrier sewers, 6 pumping stations and 10 treatment plants. Total payments to the States in that year were $27.9m. We are moving today to step up that allocation even further. 
The problem of unsewered properties in this country is one which goes back before the Second World War. It was viciously exacerbated in the years following the Second World War and most particularly in the years of Australia's urban explosion from 1950 through to the present The national program for coping with the deficiencies for which I have given statistics is a program which dates back, in fact, only to the early months of 1973. Then the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  acted very promptly, to follow up the election undertaking to which reference has been made by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges).  He wrote in January to the State Premiers asking them what moneys would be of advantage to them and what moneys would they immediately use on making a start at overtaking the enormous sewerage backlog- the enormous backlog in an essential service. One would have thought from what the honourable member for Petrie had to say to the House this afternoon that this was not the case. One would have thought that the problem had arisen during the last 20 months and the solution had preceded it under wise and far-seeing administration during the 23 years which preceded the election of the present Government. 
The honourable gentleman says that he had his priorities. No doubt his Government did have its priorities; sewerage was very clearly not among those priorities. Sewerage and the problems of pollution, over which the honourable member waxed eloquent this afternoon, are still not among the honourable gentleman's priorities. It is a fact- eager though the honourable gentleman may be to create another impression- that throughout those 23 years the national government contributed not a single cent towards the urban services of this country. The deficiencies in sewerage, the enormous backlog in this service, provided only a single example of the shortcomings, the backlog in all the services upon which the existence of civilised urban communities depends. 
The same things that can be said for sewerage can be said for water reticulation, road construction and public transport development. In every area on which the maintenance of a proper quality of life depends in urban areas the expenditure of the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party administration was deficient. That shows through clearly in the current state of all our capital cities major regional centres. I am not one who would advocate or support any section of the Australian community missing out on the advantages which that section of the community requires from the national government and which only the national government can provide. When some honourable members opposite complain- as they do frequently, and most recently this morning- about the withdrawal of support to which they have long been accustomed, I cannot help thinking how they sat mute throughout 23 years while great disadvantaged areas of outer suburbia in this country were growing up. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Will he provide in consolidated form information he has already given or obtained subsequently from the States in reply to my questions Nos 339 of 29 March 1973, 581 of 22 May 1973 and 773 of 8 April 1974. 
-I hope that now that the Trade Practices Act is law the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  will take energetic action to stamp out the fringe operators in the field of radio and television repairs who have been allowed to batten on this community for so very many years. I hope that following the representations I have made to the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop)  the services of the Pink Pages of the telephone directory, which have so often facilitated these firms in the deceptions they practise, will be, if not withdrawn, at least severely modified and made conditional on the observation of basic ethical standards. 
It is common at this time on Thursdays for honourable members to raise problems drawn to their attention by constituents. It is perhaps less common for honourable members to raise the predicaments in which their own families have found themselves from time to time. I take this course today only because I feel that an experience my own family had recently is one which many thousands of Australians have previously suffered and will go on suffering until something is done about firms such as Melbourne's quite notorious Milleradio. The circumstances are these: A few months ago a television set in my home stopped working and my wife looked up the Pink Pages of the telephone directory to find a local repair man. She saw a local telephone number listed against a firm described as 'Prompt TV Repairs', in large display advertising. She telephoned the firm and a serviceman called at my home, looked at the television set briefly and advised her that it would have to be removed to a workshop so that a detailed investigation of the trouble could be made. He said that she would be given a quote for repairs within a few days. 
After some weeks my wife rang Prompt TV Repairs at the number given in the telephone directory and queried the delay in the preparation of the quote. She was then advised that the telephone number given in the directory was simply the number of an answering service, and that the set had been removed to the workshops of Milleradio, more than 20 miles away in Prahran. She then rang the number of Milleradio which she was given and was told first that the repairs to the set would cost $60, secondly that there was a $24 fee for that quotation which she would have to pay regardless of whether the set was repaired or not, and finally, that if she did not go ahead with the repairs she would be obliged to go to Prahran herself and pick up the set. 
The set was old and for a couple of months I thought that we would forget about it and leave it where it was because it was not worth $60 to have it repaired. But a week or so ago I changed my mind and we went and got the set, confirming at the same time the details I have just given. We paid the $24 and took the set away. We then telephoned a bona fide local television service man who came along, told us that his quotation was free and went ahead and repaired the set for $18.40. The set is now functioning satisfactorily. Having had this experience I looked up the reports over the years of the Victorian Consumer Protection Bureau. I found that in all but one of the reports made by the Bureau since it was established in 1968 reference has been made to Milleradio in the most unflattering terms. The 1968 report states: 
In the year under review, 82 complaints were received against the firm Milleradio, and over the past 3 years, 234 complaints have been lodged against this firm. 
The company was quite prepared to give quotes, but in many instances, these quotes were flagrantly disregarded. When consumers queried high quotations and demanded the return of appliances, they received accounts advising that half the quoted price would be charged for preparing the estimate. 
The 1 969 report of the Bureau states: 
In the year under review 337 complaints were registered, and of these, 197 were lodged against the firm Milleradio. Since the Council commenced operations in September, 1965, 431 complaints have been received against this firm. The public has complained about excessive over-charging, sloppy workmanship, extreme delays in the return of appliances, grossly inaccurate quotes and contempt for consideration of grievances. 
The Bureau's 1971 report states: 
Although the Council has many times commented on the activities of the firm Milleradio, this firm continues to take advantage of consumers. The Consumer Protection Bureau has received a number of complaints against the firm and has referred them to the firm in order to obtain redress for aggrieved consumers. But the firm has continued to adopt an unreasonable stance in resolving these complaints. 
The 1972 report states: 
In the year under review 69 complaints for television repairs have been received against the Milleradio group whose registered office is situated at S50 Malvern-road, Prahran. The number of complaints received against all other television repairers throughout the State of Victoria amounted to 71 for the same period. The proportion of 69 complaints against Milleradio as against 71 for all other firms is an indication of the continuing gross disregard by Milleradio of all business ethics. The Council remains convinced that Milleradio is concerned only in extracting every possible dollar from a house-holder and that such service as is provided is only a means to that end. 
The Consumer Protection Bureau in its 1972 report took the trouble to list the various names under which this firm Milleradio is trading. It is a very extensive list indeed, taking up more than half a foolscap page of the report. In the 1973 report, the last report available to us in the Parliament, the comment was this: 
In the case of the Milleradio group whose registered office is situated at S50 Malvern-road, Prahan, the Council continues to receive many complaints and is convinced that Milleradio is continuing to take advantage of consumers on many of the repairs that it undertakes. This situation, as outlined in last year's report, has not changed to any extent with the exception that the PMG Department has included a reference to 'Milleradio' in listings of service companies of the 27 trade names and S company names in the Pink Pages. Consumers will now at least be able to distinguish between this firm and other television repairers. 
Unfortunately the Bureau was clearly too optimistic in this matter. I have looked up the Pink Pages of the telephone directory and have found that in all the very large and no doubt lucrative advertisements that are inserted there by Milleradio, the word 'Milleradio' is there in the smallest possible print. Very few people looking for a television repair service would read all the small print in an advertisement. They are looking for a name and a telephone number which is related by its code to the district in which they live. I have written to the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  about this matter, a matter which as I said at the outset concerns many thousands of Australians, suggesting that action should be taken. Either Milleradio is excluded from the Pink Pages of the telephone directory or its real name appears in type at least as large as the 27 trade names under which it advertises. 
-The Bill that the House is discussing replaces the Book Bounty Act 1 969- 1 973. That Act was introduced, as you will recall,  Mr Speaker,  at a time when the printing industry in Australia, at least in as much as it was geared to the production of books, had reached a state of collapse. If the then Minister for Trade and Industry,  Sir John  McEwen, had not taken the initiative in bringing in the Book Bounty Bill of that day it is quite safe to say that the industry would have passed the point of no return and that the quite considerable body of book publishing which is generated in this countrythe works of Australian authors, the works of authors from overseas for which rights are bought by Australian publishers- would all have gone on outside Australia. As the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  has pointed out to us, the expenditure under the Book Bounty Act has reached very large proportions in recent years. The honourable member for Fisher told us that the sum expended last year was very nearly $3m. 
I involve myself in this debate on a relatively narrow aspect of the legislation. It is true that the major expression of creativity involved in any book is the writing itself; but it is also true that an important subsidiary field of creativity has grown up in recent years in the design of books. This extends not only to the technical layout of the book, to the designation of the type face for the book, to the illustration of the book, but also to the way in which the book is put together. It has been a source of concern to me that the way a book has been defined in section 3a (1) (c), of this legislation, both in its earlier form and in the form which is now before the House, is a restrictive influence on the way in which books are put together in this country. I give the House a particular instance. A constituent of mine who is the proprietor of a firm known as Hanging Lake Books designed a book on mathematics in such a form that the chapters of the book were not sewn or stapled together in the customary manner but were simply put together in a box so that they could be read in any sequence. The publication was refused bounty on the grounds that it was not a book within the meaning of the Act. It seems to me that this was an unnecessarily legalistic and pettifogging interpretation of the legislation which negated the intentions of  Sir John  McEwen. If we are to retain the capacity of Australian printers to publish books, if we are to encourage the ingenuity of Australian designers in thinking up new and more attractive and perhaps more stimulating- if the honourable member for Fisher will forgive the word- ways of presenting books then we can do without interpretations of legislation as narrow as the one that was made in that case. 
I was intrigued by remarks the honourable member for Fisher made about the need to have the names of books on which bounty is to be paid published. Of course, the inhibition to which he referred, the fact that the Department has replied to the Minister that the titles of these books are not required for the administrative implementation of the Act and are therefore not recorded, goes back to the inception of the legislation in 1969 and the administrative procedures that were adopted at the same time. I suspect that they were included for the very good reason, in the eyes of the sponsors of the legislation that the identity of the people who produce material commonly described as pornographic- pornographies perhaps by general consent- in this country is at variance with the normal image of a pornographer as somebody lurking in a grubby shop with a printing machine in the back room. In fact, the material which excites the honourable gentleman from Fisher and the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  to their expressions of indignation - 
No doubt the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  too. That material emanates from some the largest printing concerns in this country. Its production is not a back street activity, it is not a covert activity, but one in which the greatest publishing enterprises in the country are eager to participate. The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  who I may say takes a closer interest in these matters than I do, said by way of interjection while the honourable member for Fisher was speaking that the most significant of these publishers at the present time are in fact Consolidated Press and Rippon Press, the latter of which is a subsidiary of the Adelaide 'Advertiser*. In fact, it is the great pillars of the Establishment in this country whose names would have been put abroad, who would no doubt have been named by the honourable members for Fisher and Boothby if they had been subject to scrutiny under administrative procedures prescribed by this Bill. Over the luncheon break, I must confess, I was so intrigued by the interjection of the honourable member for Phillip that I looked up the board of the Adelaide 'Advertiser', these entrepreneurs in the fields that the honourable members for Fisher and Boothby so righteously deplore. I must say I was intrigued to find that the  Deputy Chairman  of the Board is in fact a Liberal-Country League member of the South Australian Legislative Council. Judging by the decorations appearing after the names of other gentlemen on the board, I think their political persuasion was not dissimilar. 
Looking back on the whole thing, I suspect that the sponsors of the original legislation, the original Book Bounty Act, were acting in the best interests of their supporters when they impressed upon their public servants the need for a measure of reticence in these matters and that the honourable members for Fisher and Boothby will be opening up a Pandora's Box if they press thendemands for the disclosure of the publications which attract bounty and have attracted it from the inception. The Government has brought down this legislation in conformity with the desire, shared by all parties in this House, that the book publishing trade in this country should not die. It has made a realistic adjustment from the original level of 25 per cent to the level of 33 V4 per cent prescribed in the legislation before us today to see that that intention is given effective expression. I believe that this is legislation which is likely to be with us for many years to come and that we should all support it. 

 Mr ADERMANN (Fisher)-Mr  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-People listening to this debate tonight can only have been dismayed by the destructive note on which it commenced. If Australia's economic problems are to be overcome it might be an idea for this House to stop knocking everything that the Government is doing about them and give the country a chance to go about its business without scaring it to death. Before people go on predicting increases in inflation or unemployment they ought to remember how easy it is for predictions of this sort to be self-fulfilling. Anybody who thinks that something is done for public confidence by calling on somebody to restore it had better give some thought to the queues which formed this afternoon outside building societies in Brisbane and Adelaide. Scoring of political points and pushing of party barrows are not activities of which we can be proud at a time when all around us the economies of countries like our own are sliding down into chaos. If we do not wake up to ourselves soon, being the lucky country is an idea we will have to give away. 
In the first 6 months of this year the annual rates of inflation recorded by the monthly Consumer Price Index of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development rose to 7.2 per cent in West Germany, 10.3 per cent in New Zealand, 1 1 per cent in Canada, 13.5 per cent in France, 13.6 per cent in Australia, 15.9 per cent in Britain, 16.1 per cent in Italy, 16.3 per cent in Spain, 18.1 per cent in Finland, 19 per cent in Turkey, 23.2 per cent in Japan, 26.6 per cent in Portugal and 31.9 per cent in Greece. Over the same period the output of the world's 7 largest industrial countries fell at an annual rate of 1 V4 per cent in what the OECD has called 'the most exceptional deceleration of growth ever experienced'. Six million people are going to be out of work in Europe before the end of the year. Five per cent of America's work force is unemployed already and before long that figure may rise to 8 per cent. The risk of the world to which Australia belongs finding itself in a hyper-inflationary slump is confirmed by every reputable economic authority. 
The London 'Economist' pointed out on 27 July: 
Economies have  become too  interdependent for any but governments of the largest countries to be able to control their own destiny, while politically countries remain too independent to be willing to co-operate in controlling the reemerging trade cycle . . . Businesses are cutting their forward investment plans while many governments ar; saying they must follow sterner budgetary policies. If business and government decisions move simultaneously in the same deflationary direction all over the world, the cumulative effect will be a crash. 
The 'Australian Economic Review' noted in its second issue for 1974: 
The forces underlying this deteriorating outlook . . . include the destabilising effects of massive trade deficits for the oil importing countries as a whole (estimated at some S60 billion for the OECD countries); the widespread cost inflationary pressure which intensifies the impact of any credit restrictions and tempts most countries to try deflationary measures; and the deflationary impact of higher oil prices, of continued cost inflation in tight credit conditions and of world wide measures to contain inflation. Although these three problems- the threat of chronic imbalances in international payments with consequent instability in the international financial system, the possibility of accelerating cost inflation and the threat of a world slump- have been evident since the beginning of this year, virtually nothing of a constructive nature has been achieved towards their solution. 
In the same issue the 'Australian Economic Review ' concluded: 
In 1974-75 Australia faces, for the first time in its history, the very real possibility of a developing hyper-inflation. The country faces the most serious economic situation since the Depression days of the 1930s and there is an urgent need for a national consensus in the face of the economic threat. 
We are not going to overcome that threat or obtain the necessary consensus without a measure of commitment on the part of all the interest groups which make up our community. There are at least 4 matters over which we must do better as a community than we have ever done before. Bringing down inflation involves a better appreciation on the part of the community as a whole that if restraint is required it can be achieved only on the basis of equality of sacrifice. Bringing down inflation involves a better understanding of the importance of productivity and better arrangements to stimulate increases in it by rewarding the work force immediately and proportionately in the wages and salaries that are paid. Bringing down inflation involves better standards of job satisfaction which can be achieved only if capital and labour accept one another as equal partners in the process of production. Bringing down inflation involves striking a better balance in the allocation of our resources between immediate personal consumption, investment in the plant and machinery through which our future wealth will be generated and spending on the community facilities and services which determine so overwhelmingly the quality of our lives. 
The demand inflation which was triggered by the 1972 Budget and the 1972 liquidity explosion was brought under control early in 1974 by measures such as revaluation of the Australian dollar, tariff reform and the establishment of the Prices Justification Tribunal. This tapering off of demand inflation characterised by too much money chasing too few goods was signalled by the lower rate of increase in the consumer price index for the March quarter. Unfortunately it was followed immediately by the onset of a vicious cost inflation as income earners of all sorts scrambled to maintain their purchasing power in the face of repeated price increases generated during the demand phase. The Government has been urged by many people to attack this cost inflation by budgeting for a massive surplus and generating unemployment on a massive scale, but it has chosen instead to use this Budget as the foundation for a social contract through which inflation can be brought under control without resort to the brutal alternative of unemployment. The Government has been encouraged in this belief by the overwhelming majority of reputable economic commentators who regard the idea of bringing down inflation through unemployment as ineffectual, inappropriate and unacceptable. 
In these circumstances we have a Budget which is designed to enlist the co-operation of the trade union movement through a reassurance to trade union members that they will not lose out by seeking real rather than illusory increases in wages and salaries and will not be asked to contribute more to the fight against inflation than is expected of other sections of the community. This Budget is designed to draw an equal contribution in the form of tax reductions forgone and the payment of a capital gains tax and a property income surcharge from people whose incomes are derived from high level salaries, professional fees, dividends, rent and interest. If it is too soon to say that this approach has been successful, it can be said at least that the signs are promising. At their meeting 2 weeks ago in Sydney, the unions responded positively to the Budget with a declaration which, I regret, has not been published in full in any newspaper throughout Australia and which therefore I seek permission to have incorporated in Hansard. 
This Conference declares that the two problems of increasing inflation and rising unemployment are not unique to Australia but are apparent throughout the economic system of which we are a part; they are to be found in the other 23 countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. The trade union movement, neither here nor in these other countries can sensibly be blamed for the endemic problems of the capitalist system. This does not mean that we do not have a responsibility to examine the current situation in Australia and to make proposals aimed at securing a more stable efficient and equitable society. 
Conference expresses its general support for the social concepts and economic strategy contained in the Budget in 1974-75. Particularly on the expenditure side we welcome the significantly increased outlays, for instance, upon education, health, welfare and urban and regional development. On the receipts side, we congratulate the Government for certain initiatives towards greater equity, for the first time tax cuts mean more in money terms to low and middle than to high income earners. 
However, Conference, in endorsing these submissions put by the ACTU officers to the Government in pre-Budget discussions, assert that until indexation of taxation is introduced, there could be no adequate protection against the erosive effects of inflation on real after-tax incomes. This effect has continued to be a significant factor in the level of wage and salary demands. 
While we congratulate the Government on its rejection of Treasury budgetary strategy aimed at the early creation of massive unemployment, Conference expresses real concern at the existing level and trend of unemployment. The Government must be prepared to introduce supplementary measures directed towards the restoration of full employment. These measures should include the degree of quantative restrictions on imports necessary to provide assistance to industries, such as clothing, textiles, footwear and 'white' goods, which are currently suffering reductions in activity and employment well beyond that even contemplated in July 1973. Such measures should be supplemented by direct assistance to sections of industries in particular need and consideration should also be given to increased direct Government participation in industry. 
The Government should, at the earliest opportunity, seek to achieve a lowering in rates of interest throughout the community. 
Cuts in indirect tax would also have a stimulatory effect on activity as well as being equitable in terms of relevant income distribution. Such cuts in indirect taxes would also have a direct impact in reducing the price level. As a further direct measure to reduce prices, the Australian Government should consider the introduction of special grants to States to reduce charges in service industries, which enter into the cost of living 
Conference declares that co-existent with action by the Government along the above lines, the objective of the trade union movement to secure wage and salary justice would be pursued in the following manner 
Automatic quarterly adjustment for cost of living changes (indexation) of award wages 
b ) annual ad justment for national productivity changes; and 
within individual awards and determinations, changes in work value and other relevant considerations. 
Contrary to those commentators and sections of the media who have sought to confuse this important issue by deliberate misrepresentations, the implementation of this total package will not constitute 'wage restraint' but will provide a sound basis for real improvements in wage and salary standards. Conference also expresses its concern at the effects of inflation on pensioners and others on fixed incomes and urges the Government to constantly review pension rates and other social service benefits in accordance with ACTU policy. Conference believes that the fundamental prerequisite of the co-operation envisaged in this Resolution is full and continuing consultation between the Government and the trade union movement on all matters affecting the level and direction of economic activity and the social welfare of the community. The trade union movement stands ready to participate in such consultations with Government and, indeed, with other important sections of the Australian community. 
In putting many proposals for action by Government in the past, the trade union movement has repeatedly come up against the assertion of lack of constitutional po wers. Should it appear to Government in consultations with the trade union movement that it is confronted by a lack of appropriate powers which it would wish to exercise to achieve these objectives, the trade union movement will give sympathetic consideration to supporting attempts by the Government to acquire these powers. 
That declaration and the Budget which made it possible are both preliminary statements of positions which can provide a basis for future negotiation. The criticisms that have been made of the Budget and of the declaration, in such form as it was published in the newspapers and publicised by the media, missed the point. These are preliminary statements of the position on which the process of negotiation will continue until a solution- an arrangement acceptable to both sides- can be reached. With goodwill on both sides we are going to be able to establish a social contract which will provide enduring protection against the difficulties caused by greedy and irresponsible economic behaviour in the past. 
Preserving and enhancing still further the prospects of this contract is a task that demands responsibility on the part of not only this Parliament but also all of Australia's media. In normal times, scepticism towards governments on the part of the media serves the best interests of a democratic society. Normally it is fair enough for newsworthiness to determine what the media disseminate and for sensation to be the stuff of which media profits are made. But we are all media consumers now and even the most sceptical of us are influenced in our moods, and attitudes and actions by what the media give us to read and hear and see. The media cannot credibly or consistently go on expressing alarm about an economic situation which they seem to be determined to worsen. If the various sections of the media cannot bring themselves to praise the many good things contained in the Budget, they should at least give the community information about them with a minimum of destructive and dismaying commentary. The media could remain sceptical about the overtures that the Government has made and the response those overtures have drawn from the unions without doing everything in their power to deny to the community the hope on which, after all, confidence depends. The fear which prompted Roosevelt's famous warning was not all a product of direct personal experience on the part of the Americans to whom it was addressed. Much of it was manufactured in the process of the media of the day marketing their news. That is not something that we can afford to allow to happen in this country. 
Over and beyond the problem of reaching the sort of accommodation between interest groups in society of which the social contract is a first expression there looms the problem of a more adequate level of productivity. The Acting Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said correctly enough on Monday- some speakers in this debate have since confirmed it- that the only lasting solution for the inflation by which our society is gripped is for us to produce our way out of it. Australia has barely begun to appreciate the enormous gains that are waiting to be won from the people who contribute labour to industry and the people who contribute capital working together on the basis of an equal partnership. The idea of sharing not only the earnings of an industry but also the decisions which make them possible is one we have as yet barely begun to explore. 
Our failure to achieve reasonable levels of productivity is a failure not so much of vigour as of vision. We have failed so far to see beyond the crudities of piecework and incentive payments to a situation in which the best is given to enterprises which people working in them recognise as their own. It should be a considerable relief to our community that for the first time the attention of management consultants, academics specialising in industrial relations and government departments is being turned towards this approach to the increase of productivity. We were previously in a blind alley. We kept on repeating the same old slogans and getting nowhere. The breakout in this area is being made and it is integral to the whole problem of inflation. There cannot be a lasting solution to inflationsocial contract or not- unless we can come up with arrangements under which industrial relations can be harmonised and productivity can be maximised. That is the goal towards which we should be working, not as separate interest groups but as interest groups with some idea of the things that bind us together as a nation and a community. The day after the Budget the 'Australian Financial Review', in a leading article, concluded: 
The Government has made its own political judgment and decided it can defuse the pressures of cost inflation by demonstrating to the trade unions its intention of restructuring society along lines which will benefit them. It is now up to those  Mr Hawke  represents to declare themselves. It would be a short sighted Australian who did not wish the Budget to succeed at this level. 
Those  Mr Hawke  represents have declared themselves. The declaration has come forward from the meeting of unions that was held in Sydney. The process of bringing inflation under control by negotiation between the trade union movement and the Government, which other nations might envy, is under way. 
The question now is: How many Australians are short sighted, and how many Australians in fact are capable of taking the national view and of discerning where the national interest lies on these crucial matters. The signs, as we have read them in the media and heard them in this debate, are not encouraging. Australians listening tonight would have good reason to be dismayed. For many other countries less fortunate than ours in their resources and less manageable than ours socially, serious economic difficulties may be unavoidable. For Australia this is not the case. The Parliament and the media through which the community learns about the thinking of its government must shoulder heavy responsibilities. If we pull together, the problems which face us are not insuperable. If we go on the way we are going, we are down the drain. 
I ask the Prime Minister the following question: Is it the Government's view that the chances of Australia obtaining a proper return for its mineral resources would be enhanced by a declaration of support for the magnificent policies of the Minister for Minerals and Energy to which all parties subscribed? If so, does he welcome the emphatic and comprehensive declaration of support which was given last Sunday on the television program 'Federal File' by a former Liberal Prime Minister of Australia' Has the Prime Minister received any communication from the Leader of the Opposition, even the remotest flicker of one, or indication that the patriotic views expressed by the right honourable member for Higgins are widely held among members of this House that the right honourable gentleman once led? 
-I sympathise very greatly with the problems which the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  has just been outlining. They occur in his electorate as they do in my electorate and in many other electorates across the country where expanding urban populations and increasing numbers of working mothers are creating the demand for child care centres. But I think the complaints which he raised in the latter part of his speech are a very clear example of the way in which members of the Opposition often want to have things both ways. When the allocation of funds for faculties such as child care centres is determined by Government departments under direct ministerial control, the complaint of the Opposition is always that political patronage is being exercised and will become the basis on which facilities are made available. 
In this instance, as in so many other areas in which the Government is allocating substantial funds for social amenities, we have chosen to set up an independent, expert, investigatory, recommendatory and advisory committee which will ultimately become a commission. In other words, we have made sure that the allocation of funds for child care centres and pre-school centres will be determined on an expert and impartial basis. And the honourable member for Parramatta criticises us on that score. As I said before, this was a very clear instance of members of the Opposition wanting to have it both ways, being prepared to jump on the Government in whichever direction it moves, to say the Government is damned if it does and damned if it does not. 
The foreshadowed establishment of the Children's Commission, the appointment of the interim committee for this Commission, and the initiation of the national pre-school education and child care services program is a momentous step forward in the social history of Australia. It began in the face of a very real demand indeed. Honorable members will be aware that no fewer than 365,000 Australian children under 6 years of age have mothers who are engaged full time in the work force and that there are places available in child care centres at present for no more than 34,500 of those children. What is more, those 34,500 places which are available are very often administered and financed under present conditions by charitable organisations, municipalities and the like which are operating under conditions of great financial stringency. It is no exaggeration to say that if the Australian Government were not stepping in to fill the breach the number of places available, far from increasing, would be very likely to decline. 
On the pre-school education side, the position is almost as bad. While it is most difficult to obtain precise pre-school education statistics for Australia as a whole, it seems certain that the position is still one in which there is a pre-school place available for fewer than one in every four of the children whose parents would wish to take advantage of it if it were there. It is notorious that pre-school education has become available most readily in the areas where the need for it is least acute, that is, it is in predominantly affluent areas where the people are already sufficiently highly educated to appreciate the value of pre-school centres that those centres are being provided. It is those areas of the inner and western suburbs of Melbourne and Sydney and certain rural areas where the overwhelming majority of our low income families or our non-English speaking migrant families are concentrated which lack proper provision for pre-school education. The Government is presently setting out to remedy both of these deficiencies in our social arrangements. It is the aim of the Government to see within half a dozen years that there is a place in a pre-school centre free of charge for every child whose parents want to take advantage of it and that there is a place in a child care facility of one kind or another available for every child whose parents want to take advantage of it, at a charge related to income - 
They must indeed be of a high standard, as the honourable member for Darling Downs interjects. If the honourable member for Darling Downs has read closely the 3 reports that the Government has commissioned on this matter- the report of the Interim Committee for the Pre-school Education Commission, the report of the Social Welfare Commission and the report of the Priorities Review Staff- he will know that the maintenance of standards has been a matter of very great concern to the Government and its advisers and that very properly provision has been made to see that standards are maintained. 
I am always a little surprised to hear members such as the honourable member for Parramatta complain that undertakings such as the child care facility to which he referred a few moments ago will be delayed when, under the government in which the party that he supports last participated, the prospects of such an organisation being financed at all would have been very remote indeed. The honourable member for Parramatta is well aware that it took many years of urging on the part of members who now sit on this side of the Committee before the last 
Government moved in the matter of pre-school education and child care at all and that, indeed, it was only in the last year of office of the former Liberal-Country Party Administration that a child care program was launched. Significantly, it was launched under the administration of the then Minister for Labour and National Service. It was tied very strictly and very exclusively to the idea that more and more women should be encouraged to go back into the work force. It was purely a facility for working mothers. 
The concern of the present Government is a good deal more comprehensive than that. While we recognise on the one hand that there is an enormous number of mothers in this community who are obliged to go out to work by economic circumstances and who have a pressing need for child care centres, equally there is an enormous number of women in the community who would simply welcome an occasional break away from their families. That is why we are emphasising the provision not only of full time day care centres but also of occasional day care centres, of play groups organised on a voluntary basis under expert guidance and supervision, and a variety of other forms of child care. 
I must say that one of the examples which has commended itself most to me is the program being implemented by the City of Knox on a project basis- family day care. Mothers who do not want to go out of their homes to work provide care for the children of mothers who do go out of their homes to work on the basis that the charge is $12 a day for each of the children who are minded and that the sum of $12 a day for each child is paid to the mother providing the care. This is an admirable arrangement under which the needs of both groups of mothers in the community are met and one to which I would hope to see energetic support given under the program which the Government is now sponsoring. I cannot too strongly emphasise that in allocating $7 5 m for the first year of this program the Government is taking very seriously a community deficiency which has given us such problems - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
-It is a source of considerable satisfaction to members on the Government side that so great a sum should have been provided in this Budget for the use of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, but I hope that nobody in this chamber, and indeed nobody in the wider community outside, will suppose that the problems with which our country is confronted in this field of Aboriginal affairs can be solved by the expenditure of money, no matter how great a sum. Money alone will not serve to wash away the blood and the muscle which have been accumulated by successive generations of Australians of European extraction through their treatment of those Australians who are indigenous to this country. 
In discussion of this portfolio of Aboriginal Affairs we are constantly bedevilled by our tendency to think that there is only one problem. There are at least 3 problems which deserve and demand very different solutions. There is the problem of that now very small group of Aborigines still living in something like their traditional tribal life style. There is the problem of those Aboriginal communities, in some cases still proud and independent people, who manage to combine the traditional patterns of the tribal heritage and the authority of the elders with an acquaintance with the forms and skills of European society. There is the problem of those Aborigines, those unhappy people, neither tribalised nor truly urbanised who live in the twilight zone of Australian society. 
It is chiefly to that group I want to address myself in the short time that is available to me. Having recently had the opportunity to visit some of the Aboriginal communities of the Northern Territory, and in particular to spend some time as a guest of the Gurindji people at Wattie Creek, I am encouraged by the prospects in the Northern Territory. I believe that some at least of the people there, given a modicum of assistance and allowed to follow through the policy of selfdetermination which has been the great contribution of this Government to the field of Aboriginal affairs, can indeed build new lives for themselves. I am satisfied that when, as we now know will be the case, the Gurindji people receive the land rights for which they have been waiting at Wattie Creek for the past 6 years they will go ahead and build a viable community, and that they will go ahead and develop a viable cattle enterprise on the land which they take over. No group, having displayed the indomitable courage and determination that they have displayed over years of government delay and inertia in the meeting of their just claims, could come to grief over commercial obstacles alone. 
In other parts of Australia, in particular in east Gippsland in my own State of Victoria, we have Aboriginal people who have none of the advantages of those' in the Northern Territory." We have Aboriginal people who are detribalised who have never gained admission to the conventional Australian society of east Gippsland and who have been robbed not only of their tribal identity but also indeed of their self respect. I think it is to these people that we owe a special concern which lamentably has not been forthcoming from the Victorian Department of Aboriginal Affairs to which so far their welfare has been entrusted. I raise the question of their welfare tonight because the takeover of the affairs of Aborigines in Victoria by the Australian Government is now so imminent. I hope that in taking over responsibility for Aboriginal affairs in Victoria, the Australian Government will see itself as having a special charge to do something about the Aboriginal people of east Gippsland and particularly those unfortunate people in the settlement at Lake Tyers. 
I know exactly what I am talking about. I have visited Lake Tyers frequently. I have in front of me the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Lake Tyers which sat in 1966 and reported in 1966 under Professor Colin Tatz. If the recommendations of that Committee had been put into effect at the time the story in subsequent years might have been very different. 
For many years Lake Tyers was an Aboriginal reserve and operated as such. It operated under a policy which encouraged the most independent and self-sufficient Aboriginal people on the reserve to get off it, to go out and make their own way in the community outside as normal working people and as normal family groups. This policy had a measure of success inasmuch as it led to the depopulation of the settlement. Then the Victorian Government had a change of heart and decided to vest in those people who remained- the least independent people, the least enterprising people, a group of people very heavily in the grip of the disease of alcoholismthe responsibility for turning that beautiful and productive area of land in east Gippsland into a viable farming community. The result has been utterly predictable. Forced before their time and beyond their capacities to stand on their own feet and to create this viable farming community in east Gippsland, the Lake Tyers community has steadily gone downhill till tonight as I speak, having visited Lake Tyers less than a week ago, it is on the verge of total collapse. 
I want to draw the attention of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  to recommendations that were made by the Committee under Professor Colin Tatz 8 years ago. He recommended in the first part of the report that the Lake Tyers reserve be developed: 
1 ) As a rehabilitation centre for those families experiencing difficulty in adjusting to an urban European environment, for others in need of special help and as a home for the aged; 
As a general training centre for unemployed and apparently unemployable men and women in Gippsland; 
A rural, agricultural and forestry training centre for men; 
A re-afforestation scheme; 
A general educational and social centre for the resident and neighbouring populations; and 
A cattle-fattening farm. 
Those are the things that could have been done with Lake Tyers 8 years ago. Those are things which could still be done with Lake Tyers today if the authorities would abandon the approach that they have been taking in recent years and bring about a re-infusion of Aboriginal people who still have the capacity to accept the responsibilities which were thrust on this unfortunate group. A single experienced community development worker with a group such as that could bring about wonders there. 
I have great sympathy with the Ministers who undertook the responsibility for Aboriginal affairs in former governments. I have great sympathy for the Ministers who have that responsibility today. No Minister and no government in our lifetime will completely surmount the problems involved in this area. Acquiring that portfolio will be a sentence of political oblivion, I suspect, for each Minister unfortunate to get it because the expectations and the hopes will always exceed what is realistically possible but our duty to those people demands that we take the responsibility seriously. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I would like to bring the House back from the high nights of fancy to which it has just been treated to some more mundane matters, in particular, to the extraordinary proliferation of rent rackets which are being perpetrated in the name of passing on the surcharge introduced for property income in the recent Budget. By way of illustration I wish to read a couple of letters which have come to my attention. The first one was addressed to a householder, not in my electorate, who rents his property through a firm of managing agents. The letter reads: 
As managing agents for the above property, which you leased as tenant, we advise the following: 
In view of a decision made in the Commonwealth Budget 17 September 1974 whereby income from property had applied to it a surtax of 10 per cent, we regret to advise you that it has become necessary to increase the rental on the premises you occupy by $3 to $26 as from 27 September 1974 or from the expiry of your current lease. 
The second letter, which was received by a tenant in my electorate, reads: 
Dear  Sir, 
Due to the Federal Government's recent decision to impose an additional 10 per cent tax on revenue of this type of property ownership, this company is forced to pass this increase on to you as a return on this type of investment is not in any way profitable. This rise is effective as from Budget day. However, the increase in rent payable by you will be from 14 October 1974. Your rental from this date will be $33 per week. We regret that it is necessary to increase the rental, but should further legislation abolish this type of tax you will be notified of any alteration to the new rates. 
If I might interpolate, the previous rental of the person to whom that letter was addressed was $30 a week. The increase is exactly 10 per cent. I had officers of the Treasury take out some calculations on the basis of the first letter I had read to the House, the letter advising a tenant of an increase in his rental from $23 a week to $26 a week, if I might say so, a particularly mean, unscrupulous and utterly indefensible action. Members of this House- including honourable members opposite- will be well aware that the 10 per cent surcharge applies not to the rent itself but to the tax payable on it after costs such as interest, maintenance, rates and agents fees have been deducted. If the landlord had a taxable income as high as $10,000 and no costs whatsoever to charge against the rent of $23, the increase would not be $3 but 66c. If his income was $20,000, the surcharge would still only amount to 98c. This is less than one-third of the increase being demanded. If costs amounting to half the rent are taken into account, the surcharge reduces to 33c a week for landlords earning $10,000 a year and to 49c for those in receipt of $20,000 a year. Landlords with earnings up to $5,000 a year do not incur any surcharge at all. 
I have risen to draw these letters and the situation that they represent to the attention of the House because I believe that, owing to the way in which the surcharge has been reported and owing to the way in which many people, and in particular honourable members opposite, have gone out of their way to misrepresent it, there will be a great number of tenants in the community who, receiving these letters, suppose their contents to be soundly based. As a result they go ahead and pay the increased rentals without protest. This is a situation which this Parliament should not be prepared to tolerate. I hope that every member of this House who has letters of this type drawn to his attention will lose no time in bringing them to the attention of the Prime Minister, who is responsible for the Prices Justification Tribunal. I believe there is a very sound case indeed for increasing by 10 per cent rents themselves and not the tax paid on net return from them to be put to study by the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
There is no defence whatsoever for the sorts of increases which are demanded in the letters I have quoted. It is utterly unscrupulous for landlords to take advantage of a Government measure to secure a windfall increase in profits which otherwise would not have been available to them or which has been ignored in fact oh quite different grounds. I hope that people listening to the broadcast of the proceedings of this House this morning, who have had increases of this sort drawn to their attention or who are themselves the victims of such increases, will send copies of the letters that they have received to me. I am anxious to build up a complete file on this matter so that the appropriate action can be taken. There is no reason why anybody in this country should sit back and passively accept exploitation in this form. The Parliament enacts measures; the Parliament should act as the defender of the people who are exploited unscrupulously as a result of those measures being misused. 
-Any pretence on the part of the honourable members opposite that they have a serious interest in education would have been totally destroyed by the first 2 contributions from that side to this debate. The Opposition spokesman on education, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  and the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  devoted themselves exclusively to the question of taxation policy, to the utter neglect of all the real issues of education in Australia. Listening to the honourable member for Moreton or the honourable member for Warringah one would not have supposed that there are many thousands of children in Government and parish schools in Australia who have been unable to receive an adequate education because nobody bothered to teach them the language in which education is given in this country. While the honourable member for Warringah was weeping his crocodile tears for the migrant population of Australia, did he for one minute think back on the 23 years during which honourable members opposite were responsible for the scandal of migrant education in Australia, for the lost educational opportunities of the children who were brought to this country from countries where languages other than English are spoken, and who never took up seriously the business of raising a corps of teachers qualified to meet the educational needs of these unfortunate children who year in, year out, had to sit in bafflement and frustration while instruction went on in their classrooms in a language that they did not understand? This is a tragic individual loss to the children concerned and a tragic loss of human resources to this country as a whole. 
Listening to the honourable member for Moreton and the honourable member for Warringah one would not have supposed that some very formidable statistics on the incidence of illiteracy and near-illiteracy in schools have been forthcoming in the last few months. One would not have supposed that it has been established by investigations carried out by the psychology and guidance officers of education departments that in forms 1 and 2 of the secondary system the incidence of children being unable to read, even at a grade 4 level, is 45 per cent and that the incidence of children who for all practical purposes are illiterate is of the order of 25 per cent. The figures I quote are not drawn from the truly deprived areas of the inner and western suburbs of Melbourne and Sydney but from the fortunate eastern suburbs of those cities where, one would presume, the quality of education inside the schools and the stimulus given to students in their own homes would be much greater. 
But the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  were more concerned about taxation policies than the practical nuts and bolts problems of how the children in our schools are to get the sort of instruction that they need. By definition the honourable member for Moreton and the honourable member for Warringah restrict their concerns to a little more than 20 per cent of the school population. It is typical of the debates that we have heard in this place throughout the last 2 years that members of the Parties opposite are always concerned to plead for privilege and never concerned to plead for those whose deprivation has been so amply documented in recent years. The honourable member for Moreton, by the light weight quality of his concern for the great issue with which he has been entrusted, demeans the concern of the national Parliament for the educational systems of this country. 
It would not have been thought from what the honourable member for Moreton and the honourable member for Warringah had to say on this subject tonight that upwards of 20 per cent of the children in our school systems are still being educated in schools which were constructed before the end of the last century, in schools which have been grossly outstripped by the development of educational thinking and which are no longer in any way adequate for the tasks with which they are entrusted. I wonder whether the honourable member for Moreton has taken the trouble to visit any of the inner suburban and western suburban government or parish schools of Sydney or Melbourne. I wonder whether, when he addresses himself to this taxation question which is so close to his heart, he reflects on the fact that in a situation of scarce resources, in a situation in which he and his colleagues regularly urge the Government to reduce Government spending, every $1 devoted to a school which is already superbly housed, staffed and equipped, every $1 devoted to taxation relief for a family which, as I have seen from a survey conducted recently by the Independent Schools Association in Victoria - 
-A school with an income of $14,400 each year. Every $1 siphoned off in this manner from the real needs of education is $ 1 less for one of the deprived schools of this country. It is $ 1 less for making available the remedial teaching services that the children having difficulty with the basic subjects need so desperately. It is $ 1 less for making available the specialist language teaching resources that migrant children need in this country. It would not be thought, listening to the honourable member for Warringah and the honourable member for Moreton in this debate, that there was any sense of priority whatsoever on the part of honourable members opposite because what can we think of honourable members who devote their time in an Estimates debate exclusively to a matter not coming formally within the competence of the Australian Department of Education at all but arising from reports prepared by a task force of the Treasury to the exclusion of the countless real and pressing problems of education. Honourable members opposite will be taken seriously in their concern for education when they begin to talk about education. 
Honourable members on this side of the House support this motion with considerable enthusiasm. Our enthusiasm is in no way reduced by a mild sense of incredulity about the source from which it comes. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in opening his remarks today said that he had been concerned about this problem for very many years. Honourable members on this side of the House have also been concerned about this problem for very many years. Where the difference lies is in the fact that throughout those very many years honourable members on this side of the House hammered away at the Government which was then in office and at the Leader of the Opposition as one of its more prominent members to get something done about the problem, to get some action. We were aware of the nature of this problem, of the distress it inflicts on many families and the very many careers which were being blighted by it at a time when we could get neither interest nor sympathy from honourable members opposite and indeed could not get them to acknowledge that the problem existed at all. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that for 6 or 7 years there had been public awareness of public concern over this problem. I guess he was dating that period back to the establishment of the Specific Learning Difficulties Association, known as the SPELD organisation, to which I pay tribute as a magnificently successful body of spokespeople for a significantly disadvantaged group in our community. But, of course, awareness of and concern for the problem in educational circles went back much further. As early as 1963 the International Reading Association came up with the disclosure that whereas 82 per cent of children with specific learning difficulties who had received assistance in the form of remedial assistance by the end of their second school year were able to overcome their difficulties, only 8 per cent of those who had to wait till their sixth school year were able to overcome those difficulties. 
Of course over the 10 or 1 1 years which have elapsed since those survey results were published the overwhelming majority of children in this sort of need have been obliged to wait until grade 6, and in many instances even longer to receive help. This is very well reflected in the figures that were quoted by the Leader of the Opposition. Surely these are figures which should create a sense of alarm in any modern nation. Surely we should be alarmed that a survey conducted in the affluent eastern suburbs of Melbourne could come up with the revelation that 45 per cent of children in forms 1 and 2 of government secondary schools needed remedial teaching if they were to gain any benefit whatsoever from their secondary education and that 25 per cent- one in every four- of those children were functionally illiterate. There has been a remarkable complacency about these figures, figures which the Leader of the Opposition himself quoted. Does the Leader of the Opposition regard this as a new development? This is a development which has been taking place in the education systems of this country over a great many years. It reflects the total neglect on the part of our national Government, and our State governments of all the special services which are involved in this problem. I have in mind particularly the ludicrously staffed psychology and guidance branches associated with State departments of education; the pitifully understaffed speech therapy branches of State departments of education there are 32 speech therapists in the Victorian speech therapy branch although the committee of inquiry into special education recommended that there should have been 108- the pitiful lack of remedial teachers on the ground in classrooms; and the almost complete absence of higher medical specialties associated with this problem such as psychiatry. 
-And, as the honourable member for Angas very properly says, the need for public awareness. 
Honourable members on this side of the House support the motion not least because of the job of public education which has been carried to a certain point by the SPELD organisation but which now must be taken over by the National Parliament and rivetted onto the consciousness of the people of this country. That is the only way in which effective action will be brought into existence. The House should not suppose that the Government has been unconscious of this problem in the 2 years that it has had to make good the enormous deficiencies of our education system which have accumulated over so many years. The Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission, known as the Karmel Committee, freely acknowledged that it could not do full justice to all the ramifications of the problem of special education in the 5 months it had available for the preparation of its report and recommendations for 1974-75. But it did make a start. All honourable members will be familiar with the proposals that it put forward in its report and the fact that the Government has accepted those proposals. 
I mention only a few of them. The Committee recommended that $1.1 3m should be made available for the conduct of full time in-service teacher education courses mounted by the education departments in the education of handicapped children; $8.25m for the replacement of teachers in government schools engaged in training courses for teachers of the handicapped; $ 10.25m for recurrent expenditure in special schools and classes additional to that provided to the States in general recurrent expenditure for schools; $3.91m to enable State education departments to assume responsibility for the recurrent operations of those non-government schools for handicapped people which elect to become part of State systems and to make increased subsidies available to those which elect to remain outside those systems; and $20m to enable State education departments to provide additional faculties for the education of handicapped children and to replace and upgrade existing facilities. While the parameters of that program are much wider than the specific learning difficulty children alone, they include that 10 to 15 per cent of our school population which falls into the specific learning difficulties category. On the side of research, to which the Leader of the Opposition referred in his motion, I could read out to the House- perhaps if I sought leave to have it incorporated in Hansard this would suit the convenience of the House better- a list of research projects specifically involving the interests of specific learning difficulty children with which the Acting Minister for Education  (Mr Barnard)  has provided me. 
Yes. 
-The Pink Pages of the telephone directory have become one of Australia's most significant avenues for advertising, and in particular for service trades or tertiary industry advertising. The conduct of so significant a channel of advertising imposes heavy responsibility on the Post Office in terms of protection of the consumer interest. I want to express this afternoon some satisfaction over the zeal with which this responsibility is being discharged. On the 3rd of this month I had occasion to draw the attention of the House to the activities of the Melbourne radio and television repair firm Milleradio. which is a heavy consumer of Pink Pages space. This fact, the use that Milleradio makes of the Pink Pages, exemplifies a wider problem with which the Post Office authorities are familiar. I refer to the endeavours that are made by firms registered under a number of proprietary names but at a single address to dominate the Pink Pages with their advertisements. 
The Post Office has an arrangement under which no one advertiser is allowed to have no more than a quarter-page advertisement in the Pink Pages. This arrangement frequently is evaded by firms such as Milleradio through the device of registering themselves under many names at a single address and taking out a quarter-page advertisement under each of those names. When I spoke about this matter earlier this month I drew the attention of the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  to this practice and I expressed concern that many people who wanted television and radio repair services were being inadvertently drawn into the Milleradio net as a result of ringing telephone numbers of firms which were all in fact Milleradio but traded under other names. I reminded the House that Milleradio had been named most unfavourably by the Victorian Consumer Protection Council and that its activities had been discussed in every report of that Council from as far back as 1968. On looking at some of those reports this morning I was struck by the incidents that were described in them. For instance, the 1968 report records the following instance: 
An elderly consumer gave to Milleradio, the chassis of her television set, after being told that the tuner needed repairs. The cost was to have been small. After a considerable delay, the consumer was advised that the cost of repairs would be $80 and that she would have to pay in cash outside her home before the appliance would be reassembled. The consumer, an elderly lady, was advised by us to take legal action, which she did, and the result was most favourable. 
A second instance was described by the Council in the following way: 
Consumer gave to Milleradio his television set for repair, but demanded a firm quote before any repairs were made. He was told that the cost would be small, but to ring for a firm quote. When he contacted the firm, he was advised the cost would be $50; he told the firm he could not afford that much and demanded the return of his appliance, but was advised that he would have to pay $25 before the set would be returned, although no repairs had been effected. 
Those instances described in the 1968 report of the Victorian Consumer Protection Council are very representative of the unsatisfactory transactions which have been described to me in letters I received from people after I last spoke about Milleradio in this place and after I wrote to the Postmaster-General and suggested that something should be done to correct the abuse. 
I was interested to see that in the same week the Victorian Minister of Labor and Industry, and Minister of Consumer Affairs,  Mr Rafferty,  also had something to say about Milleradio in the Victorian Parliament. He named Milleradio as the most significant source of complaints to the Consumer Protection Council. He said that last year of 135 complaints involving radio and television repairs 95 were against Milleradio and that 15 per cent of the claims heard before the Victorian Small Claims Tribunal involved this firm. 
I am pleased to say that the PostmasterGeneral has now taken action so effective that I believe it will do more to stamp out the abuse of the pink pages and to correct the whole unfortunate position in the radio and television service field than all the denunciations that have been uttered over the last half dozen years. The Postmaster-General has sent me mockups of the advertisements which will be required in next year's pink pages telephone directory from all firms registered under a variety of proprietary limited names but at a single address. In future wherever a telephone number is given for such a firm that telephone number will have to be accompanied by the commonly recognised name for the firm concerned. At a conservative estimate, in the present telephone directory Milleradio would have dozens of telephone numbers cited, all of which are merely numbers of answering services for the firm's Prahran workshop. In future beside each one of these telephone numbers there will be the word ' Milleradio ' in type of comparable size. 
I was interested to see that the proprietor of Milleradio was quoted in the Melbourne 'Herald ' on 9 October to this effect: 
Every time I get bad publicity, my business increases. 
Despite everything they say about me, I am stilt doing 1,000 repair jobs a week. 
Old customers keep coming back, and now I 'm getting the second generation- the children of customers whose TVs we repaired in the early days. 
I have great customer loyalty, and they always remember me when I 'm getting knocked by adverse publicity. 
I hope that  Mr Miller  is right. I believe he will need all that second generation customer loyalty. I think he will need all the adverse publicity he can get. I am satisfied that the action that the Postmaster-General has agreed to take over this abuse is the correct action. It indicates a very proper respect for consumer protection and it is indicative of the zeal with which Post Office officials associated with the pink pages discharge their responsibilities. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of the enormous number of would-be railway passengers who are being turned away from Australian railways by the antiquated conditions of passenger rolling-stock? Can he give the would-be passengers any encouragement in the form of a progress report on the development of the Australian passenger train? Can he say when this train is likely to come into service and whether its development has been supported by all State Ministers for Transport? 
-The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  began his speech with a quotation from Talleyrand. Let me match it with another from the same source. The honourable gentleman has learnt nothing and forgotten nothing.  His  speech was rich with allusions to the past. He drew few conclusions from them. The evils he deplored are all around us in the field on which discussion centres today. The misuse of the right to propagandise to which he referred is with us. It is not hypothetical. It is not something which might happen. It is something which is perpetuated every day. Similarly the situation in which a political party might gain a measure of ownership of the media, which he purported to deplore, is in fact with us already. I think Birkenhead said once that in Britain the Anglican Church was the Tory Party at prayer. In Australia the media as we know it is the Liberal Party on the air. 
Honourable members on this side of the House believe there is a touch of the crocodile in the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who began this debate. It may be that the forebears of the honourable gentleman shared his taste for swimming naked in the Condamine and some connection occurred there. When the honourable gentleman addresses the House as he did this morning with tears in his eyes and a catch in his throat about the plight of the weak and innocent television licensee who finds himself confronted with an overbearing broadcasting authority, it is hard to remain unmoved. Unfortunately the honourable gentleman gave us this morning a travesty of the truth. The commerical television interests of this country are not Davids threatened by a Goliath of government creation but offshoots of an oligopolised communications industry which prompted  Senator Kennelly  to say as long ago as 1964-1 quote him because then the development of the television industry was relatively in its infancy: 
One feature of television which has always worried me is the great strength of this medium in forming opinion. Unfortunately the principal television stations in Australia are virtually in the hands of 3 or 4 men who also control the Press and the principal radio stations. Therefore, the media of communication in Australia are in the hands of a very few people. This is bad from a national point of view irrespective of who the people may be. 
If the honourable gentlemen opposite have any doubts on that point I draw their attention to reports published annually by the authority we are discussing today, which set out in some detail the enormous extent to which ownership of the Australian media is concentrated in a very few hands. By and large it is the people who own the great newspapers of this country who also own the television stations and the radio stations. 
Honourable gentlemen who spoke out this morning in praise and in defence of human freedom not only have lived with this situation of the monopolisation of communication in Australia ever since they came to power in 1949; they have actively abetted the process by which consolidation increased. All too often freedom of the media, as honourable gentlemen opposite use the term, means no more- I am indebted to the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  for the phrase- than the freedom of a millionaire to own 10 newspapers and one million people to own none. 
The honourable member for Moreton this morning made great play of the fact that the Broadcasting Control Board has the power available to suspend or revoke a licence. The honourable gentleman knows very well the fallacy of the argument that he put. He knows very well that thermo-nuclear weapons are notoriously ineffective as a means of dealing with brush fire wars. He knows, and indeed the people who sent our forebears to this country knew, that hanging was a very poor deterrent for petty theft. In just that same way, threats to suspend or to revoke licences are a very poor way of dealing with the constant and insidious abuse of standards in which commercial television managements excel. 
The enormity and finality of the power are sufficient to ensure that it will never be invoked. What government authority would contemplate putting out of business the enormous accumulation of capital, putting out of work the very great body of people employed, or depriving the large listening audience associated with a major television station of its entertainment by exercising that sanction in the face of the sort of infringement in which commercial television managements excel? In equipping the Australian Broadcasting Control Board with this ultimate weapon our predecessors in this place simply made the Board weaponless. They created a pitiful giant. 
Adult audiences in Australia, I think it can be fairly argued, should be able to look after themselves. We would expect, and indeed it is the policy of this Government, that adults should have the uttermost freedom of choice in what they see, hear or read. 
But there is one group in this community that is peculiarly defenceless and exploited. I speak of the children of this community for whom the Broadcasting Control Board has laid down specific standards of protection much more widely honoured by commercial managements in the breach than in the observance. 
I draw to the attention of the House some of the guidelines which have been laid down by the Board in this area. Honourable members, including the honourable member for Moreton, will know from their own experience the discrepancy which exists between these standards and what is presented to our children day in day out through their television screens. The Board states: 
It is recommended that there should be regular sessions for children, designed: 
to impart a broader knowledge of Australian history and potentialities, and of current affairs; 
to foster an appreciation of such cultural pursuits as music, paintings, ballet, theatre and literature; 
to encourage interest and active participation in simple scientific investigations such as botanical, geological and other pursuits; 
d ) to cater for children 's propensities for sport, and hobbies such as handicrafts and the care of animals; and 
by the use of the great examples from the Bible, and from history, biography and literature, to impart a real appreciation of the spiritual values and of the qualities of courage, honour and integrity which are essential to the full development of the individual and of national greatness. 
One can cavil at the language which the Board has employed without doubting that the Board's intention is one which should be enshrined at the heart of national television policy. Would any member of this House seriously disagree that our performance in meeting the ideal falls lamentably short? Pity the poor child who is nightly brutalised by the violence, bemused by the banality and corrupted by the commercialism of what passes by a master stroke of cynicism as children's television. Honourable members will recall that the phrase 'the banality of evil' was coined to describe the outlook brought to bear on the processes of genocide by leaders of the Nazi Parry. It is equally applicable to the outlook that not only commercial interests but sometimes our national stations bring to television for children. 
We have a situation in which the bodies of our children are sacrosanct but their minds are at the mercy of anybody who has enough money to finance the preparation of an elaborate submission to back up his application for a licence, enough gall to suggest that his programs will in some way serve the public interest- and enough bullying bravado, the amount of which needed to overawe a Broadcasting Control Board which is in fact impotent, is not very great. We would prosecute with the utmost rigour of the law anybody who inflicted physically on our children the sort of harm they suffer throughout the period of their childhood from their television screens. When the honourable member for Moreton invites us to water down the legislation which is currently before us, he asks us to prefer the exploitation of our children to the regulation of commercial interests which are profiting from what has been described as a community conferred licence to print money. It is this exploitation that the Government has in mind when it brings forward these amendments to the legislation which has now so thoroughly and through so much experience, been proved to be ineffectual in promoting proper standards of television in this country. 
In his speech this morning the honourable member for Moreton challenged members on this side of the House to produce instances in which the authority which he asserted the Australian Broadcasting Control Board possessed had been challenged by commercial broadcasting interests. The honourable gentleman could have satisfied himself on this point by reference to any one of the reports of the Board tabled annually in this Parliament Every year the Board itemised in its report the matters over which difficulty has arisen in the preceding 12 months. But since the honourable gentleman raises the point, I give him some examples. In January 1973, not so long ago, I think, as to tax the honourable gentleman's memory, the Broadcasting Control Board pointed out to the  chairman  of the board of Channel 10 in Sydney that in the period of a week beginning 22 January several gross excesses had been observed in the advertising content televised by the station. In one case the station had telecast 5 minutes more advertising in one hour than allowed by the Board. This was one of a series of examples of breaches of the Board's standards that had been occurring in the television industry for years. Until that breach, no action had been taken by the Board against the offender stations. In the instances to which I referred the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  decided that he would try to see that something was done. In fact, he threatened to invoke the power to revoke the station's licence. 
If the honourable gentleman wants a further instance, I refer him to the so-called editorials that were telecast by Channel 9 in the period of the 1972 general election. They were not Party political telecasts as authorised under the legislation, but a blatant exercise of proprietorial influence. The  Chairman  of the Board drew to the attention of the proprietor concerned the fact that the telecasts were illegal. 
-The gentleman's name was Packer. The station took no remedial action because it knew the Board was in a weak situation. I could go on itemising and elaborating examples of this kind indefinitely, but they are all on the public record in the reports tabled by the Board in this Parliament on a regular basis. The Government, in bringing forward these amendments to the legislation, does not seek to exercise a narrow or constrictive influence on the television industry in this country; on the contrary, nothing could be more narrow or confining than the constraints and conventions the industry imposes on itself. What this Government would hope to see from the Australian television industry is something of a renaissance, a new flowing of creativity in that industry which would match in its flavour the new aspirations flowing in our community as a whole. We do not have to have the public airways prostituted in the manner in which they have been prostituted for as long as most of us can remember. The public airways represent a great national asset. They should be developed as such for the benefit of all Australians. 
-The fact that Australia is overwhelmingly a nation of owner-occupiers should not blind this Parliament or this community as a whole to the increasing incidence of rackets involving landlords who let accommodation and tenants who occupy it. There has been very clear evidence in recent weeks and recent months of people who are obliged to rent accommodation m our community becoming victims of exploitation to a quite extraordinary extent and of the trading associations to which agents belong in this country falling down very badly indeed in the pretence they make of policing the practices carried on by a minority of their members. 
A couple of weeks ago I had occasion to raise at this stage of proceedings instances in which tenants had received requests from landlords and managing agents for quite substantial increases in rents which were attributed to the property income surtax which was introduced by the Government in its recent Budget. I was able to demonstrate through quite specific figures that those increases represented up to 10 times the amount of the surtax for which the landlords would be liable. 
I was interested to see that in the aftermath of that speech the General Secretary of the Real Estate and Stock Institute of Victoria,  Mr Evans,  who surely should be aware of what goes on in the housing sector of the economy and who surely should take some elementary responsiblity for the activities of members of his Institute, claimed that the Institute had no evidence of the practices I had mentioned. I had quoted in the House specific letters from agents bearing out my point, but  Mr Evans  said that there was no evidence of the practices. 
He went on to make the extraordinary statement that members of the Institute were only raising rents to the extent necessary to cover rising costs and that, in any case, rent increases reflected the demand for rental housing arising from the shortage of finance for home purchase. There is only one interpretation possible for that quite contradictory statement, and for the logical inconsistency in  Mr Evans'  remarks which honourable members will have discerned, and that is that landlords are charging the traffic all it will bear. There is an increasing number of people in our community- some from necessity and some from choice- who are seeking rental accommodation, and the cost is being pushed up accordingly. Let us clear our minds of cant. It is not a matter of rising costs; it is a matter of what can be extracted from people who are desperate for accommodation. Until we strip away some of the public relations angles which are trotted out to camouflage the practices which are going on, we are not going to get very far towards overcoming them. 
I want to make the point this morning, that if organisations such as the real estate and stock institutes in the various States will not do something more about self discipline for their members, somebody else is going to have to do it for them. I think it is deplorable that fair rents tribunals and the similar State authorities which have been established seem to be quite impotent in protecting the tenants who appeal to them. I know that my colleague the honourable member for Henry  (Mrs Child)  will be saying something this morning about some of the fringe abuses which have been given publicity in recent weeks. I think that she will say something about the landlords who encourage tenants who do not have leases to carry out costly repairs and renovations to rented accommodation and thereafter take action which forces the tenants out of the houses which have been improved, or alternatively increases the rents on the grounds that the houses have become much more attractive propositions than they were before the renovations were carried out. I think that probably she will be saying something about the pernicious practice of bonding associated with rented accommodation and about all the abuses that arise from it. 
It is very clear that at present there is no effective protection for tenants who are hit by these practices. It is clear that the fair rents tribunals cannot cope with them and that bodies like the Real Estate and Stock Institute will not do so. I say again to those bodies that if they are unable to look after these matters and if they are unable to discipline the people who are their responsibility, surely somebody else must step in. I am glad to see that the Opposition spokesman for social welfare and related matters is at the table because I believe he would agree wholeheartedly with this view. 
In the last 3 weeks, since I spoke on the quite narrow issue of the so-called passing on of the property income surtax to tenants, I have been staggered by the volume of mail which has come into my office from people not in my electorate alone or even in my State alone but throughout Australia bringing to my attention abuses which have occurred mainly in the form of grossly exorbitant rent increases imposed on people of very slender means. Very frequently such increases have been imposed in respect of premises where little or no repair or maintenance work has been undertaken by the landlord for many years; indeed, in one instance, for 37 years. This is a quite extraordinary state of affairs. I should like to give the House the benefit of some of the information that has been passed on to me by these unfortunate people. The first letter from which I quote is from a family in New South Wales. It states: 
With reference to rent rises, our house which we are renting is valued at $ 1 1 ,500 and we have just had a rent rise of $10.70 a week which makes our rent now $23.95. These houses are in bad condition and we have been in this place 37 years and the only repairs they have ever done is a new hot water service. We have put in a new stove, new bath, bath heater, tubs, plus painting and other jobs and have never been allowed one penny against the rent- 
Another letter, in this instance from Victoria, states: 
I am a supportive mother (separated) with 2 young children. I was paying $32 per week- now $38. 1 would not like my name mentioned for fear of reprisal from the landlord. It is very important for me to retain tenancy of this home, but feel this increase which has been imposed is most unfair. 
Another letter, from a suburb of Melbourne, states: 
I am on a widows pension with one child to support. I receive $84 per fortnight plus one son working from whom I receive $20 a week board. My rent increased $8 per week from $27 to $35. 
I could go on in this vein for a considerable time citing letters I have received but the point I make is simple: I appeal to organisations like the RES] to be less sensitive to criticism and more ready to crack down on what is going on in their own backyards. The need for action is urgent. A great body of our fellow Australians are being victimised and they desperately need help. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is vitally important that the people of Australia, the Parliament of Australia, understand what the proposals recently put forward for a reduction in Government spending by 8 per cent mean in practice, as well as in the form in which they are advanced. It is vitally important that we should all understand the consequences in terms of deprivation for individuals who depend on the Australian Government for their well being- 
-And in terms of dislocation of committed works and programs at every level of government in this country and, what is more, for governments of every political complexion in this country. 
We are all indebted- and, I repeat, indebtedto the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  for grasping the nettle and explaining at long last what honourable members opposite mean when they talk about reduction of Government spending. We are all indebted to the honourable gentleman for stating very forcefully on 'Monday Conference' on 28 October 1974 that there should be an 8 per cent reduction in Government spending across the board. Pensioners and other social security beneficiaries now know the exact extent to which their incomes would be reduced in the unlikely event of the Opposition being in a position to give effect to its theories. 
Low and middle income earners who need houses now know by how much the waiting period for welfare housing and co-operative building society loans will be increased. 
-The sick are now in no doubt about the period for which the new hospitals and the better health facilities that they need will be postponed. Parents, teachers and students are clear about the extent to which the educational opportunities of an overwhelming majority of young Australians will have to be curtailed. 
Social security payments, low cost housing, housing loans- 
Health centres, child care centres, pre-school centres, schools and universities 
-They are all products of Government spending. 
All these things would be cut by 8 per cent under the program outlined by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Judging by some of the interjections which have been coming particularly from the Country Party benches over the last few minutes, honourable gentlemen opposite are not familiar with the transcript of the program in which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made his remarks. Let me bring that transcript to their attention. Let me refresh the memories of those opposite who saw the program or who obtained a copy of the transcript for themselves. On page 2 of the transcript of the 'Monday Conference' program, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is quoted as saying:  ... we have said, I believe as a matter of responsibility, that the rate of increase in Government spending this year should be 25 per cent, not the 32.4 per cent which this Government has budgeted for. 
Again, on that same page, he continued: 
That obviously means that there will need to be a cutback on the present increase which this Government has budgeted for and, if necessary, of course that will mean a cutback of 8 per cent across the board . . . 
He was asked by the program's compere,  Mr Robert  Moore: 
What are some of the more obvious areas for a cutback? 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition, as quoted at page 3 of the transcript, replied: 
Well this, of course, is always a very difficult question for any Opposition to meet because we don't have access to the detailed figuring which is, of course, available to the Government, but we're saying, in very clear terms, it means a cutback of 8 percent- 
-This was said by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition on television. He continued:  . . . which is less than this Government has budgeted for and if necessary that will be- and I put this quite precisely- a cutback across the board . . . 
At page 28 of the transcript, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is quoted as saying:  . . . I'm making it perfectly clear that the reductions would be across the board but that there would be major priority in certain areas. 
I said at the outset that we are indebted to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition for at long last bringing some substance to the many Delphic utterances of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  on this matter. But it is unfortunate that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition did not go a little further and make clear the real arithmetic underlying his calculations. (Quorum formed) When the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  made his attempt to cut short the already short time available to me to put these facts to the House by calling for a quorum I was saying that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, in acknowledging that what the Opposition has in mind is an across the board cutback of 8 per cent in Government expenditure, was telling only half of the truth about the extent to which the program the Opposition has foreshadowed would affect public expenditure. 
Let me give the House the arithmetic. The total planned expenditure of the Government for 1974-75 is $16.3 billion, and 8 per cent of that, of course, is $1.3 billion, suggesting, on the surface of things, that the revised Liberal-Country Party coalition expenditure program would be of the order of $15 billion. But that does not take any account whatsoever of the additional expenditure commitments into which the Liberals themselves have entered and which would themselves be a charge against the present expenditure programs of the Australian Government. I mention only a few of those because it is important that people should be aware of them. At one end of the scale, in the field of education, the Liberals are committed to a sum of up to $ 15m for higher grants to category A schools. They are committed to $33m to bring the education tax allowance back from $150 per annum to $400. In the field of health, the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has committed a Liberal-Country Party coalition government to an amount of $200m in its first year for a further face lift of the aging, ailing Liberal health insurance scheme. 
In the field of primary production $70m is proposed to be provided for the perpetuation of the superphosphate bounty. It is proposed to provide $60m to restore subsidies for mining companies and $45m to restore the investment allowance. Indeed, I am not too sure that the $45 m would be adequate for the task, because yesterday the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who is the Liberal spokesman in these matters, was referring not simply to a reinstatement of the investment allowance but to what he referred to as a 'very substantial reinstatement of the investment allowance'. The Leader of the Opposition himself in yesterday's Melbourne 'Sun' was quoted as saying how much more a Liberal-Country Party coalition government would spend on activities under the Tourism and Recreation portfolio than is being spent under the present Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  Of course, above all, there is the question of defence. The honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  in an impassioned contribution to the Estimates debates a few weeks ago, had this to day: 
We are committed - 
That is a Liberal-Country Party coalition government-  quite specifically and without qualification to substantially increased defence expenditure when we come into government. 
That was said by the Opposition spokesman on defence. Of course one links that statement with his earlier remark that defence spending should be at the level of 3.5 per cent of gross national product. In other words, in addition to the $1.3 billion which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has said his Party will cut from Government expenditure across the board, there is another $ 1 ,000m-another $ 1 billion- and more, to come off the present expenditure programs in terms of new commitments, of firm promises, into which Opposition spokesmen have entered. In other words, the amount remaining for existing expenditure programs is of the order not of $ 15,000m as it would seem from the surface of the statement of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, but in fact of $ 1 4,000m. 
Honourable gentlemen should address their minds to the amount that will have to be slashed from the expenditure of each department to meet that colossal reduction in overall government spending. Let the pensioners and social security beneficiaries of this country ask themselves what level of pension could be paid in the face of a reduction of the Estimates by one-eighth. Let the education authorities of Australia, State and Federal, ask themselves to what extent the building and recurrent expenditure programs in education could be maintained in the face of this sort of cutback. How many school building projects would have to be abandoned? How many teachers would have to be dismissed? How many children would be unable to find places in schools at the beginning of a new school year following the implementation of these measuresnot the cut of $ 1 ,000m that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition talked about, but a cut of $2.3 billion in the present expenditure programs of Australia? 
Let the State' Governments, irrespective of their political complexion, ask themselves what would be the impact on their programs of this further reduction in the block grants available to them, cumulative to and many times exceeding the amounts by which their block grant this year fell short of their hopes. Let the State Governments ask themselves, and let honourable gentlemen on both sides of this place ask themselves, what catastrophic consequences on cooperation between the 3 levels of government in our Federal system would follow from reductions in all the programs to which the States have already committed themselves and to which local government has already committed itself to buy goods and services, if not only block grants to the States but the $56m allocated this year for local government through the Grants Commission were cut back. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
Can the Minister confirm the validity of the International Whaling Commission figures which state that 4 undersized sperm whales, 3 female and I male, were taken by the Cheynes Beach Whaling Company of Albany, Western Australia, in 1973. 
Was a penalty, as allowed under the regulations of the Whaling Act I960, setting limits on catch size, imposed on the company. 
If no penalty was imposed on the company, what were the reasons, required under the Act, as to why the whales were killed. 
If fines were levied, to what purpose was revenue gained from the fines put. 
I ask the Minister for the Capital Territory if he is aware that women, including a very distinguished senator, have been refused service by certain Canberra hotels? Will the Minister ensure that in Territories administered by the Australian Government women do not suffer discrimination in this or in any other form? 
-Is the Prime Minister able to give the House further information on the appointment of a senator to fill the current vacancy? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many science laboratory units had been built or will have been built under the States Grants (Science Laboratories) Act in (a) government, (b) Catholic and (c) other non-government schools in each State as at (i) 30 June 1965, (ii) 30 June 1968, (iii) 30 June 1971 and(iv) 30 June 1975. 
I rise this morning to make a request of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  I make the request not on behalf of the Government, not on behalf of the members of this House alone, but on behalf of our country as a whole. I rise to ask the Leader of the Opposition whether even at this late stage he will not make it clear to the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Lewis,  not with the equivocation which he has so far shown on the great issue before us all at the present time, that if the Premier does not retreat from the stand that he has taken on the filling of the current Senate vacancy he, the Leader of the Opposition, the man bound to uphold the traditions of parliamentary democracy in this country, will not appear with  Mr Lewis  on the platform at the public meeting which is to be held at Randwick race course next Sunday. 
Very seldom in the history of our country has parliamentary democracy been tested or challenged as it is being tested and challenged at the present time. This is occurring at a time when democracy is under siege around the globe and when the lights are going out one by one around the world. Those countries in which a true parliamentary democracy can still be said to exist are few and far between. We in this House would all agree that the maintenance of parliamentary democracy depends upon the willingness of the people to be governed. It depends upon the willingness of the people to be convinced that they all have a real and meaningful say in the Government of the country. It depends upon their conviction, in 2-Party democracies such as our own, that when a Party wins an election and comes to office it will be allowed to put its policies into effect and that it will enjoy the protection not only of the letter of the Constitution but also of the great body of convention and tradition which has been accumulated in the parliaments of the English speaking world. I wonder whether the Liberal Party fully appreciates the consequences of compounding last year's refusal of supply in the Senate with the appointment of a senator from its ranks or from the ranks of an associated Party to fill the vacancy left by the departure of  Mr Murphy. 
It is not so long ago that a majority of the members of the Australian Labor Party had to convince important sections of the Austraiian community, including tens of thousands who took part in Vietnam moratorium demonstrations, including hundreds of thousands who supported what were called 'political strikes', that despite 23 years of Liberal-Country Party rule they had not been disfranchised; that it was still possible for Labor Party governments to be elected; that when Labor Party governments were elected they would be given the same opportunities as the Liberal Party governments which preceded them; that they would have the same opportunities to put their policies into effect; that they would have the same protection from the conventions as the governments that preceded them. That assumption is now at stake. Last April the Liberal majority in the Senate shook it to its foundations. What  Mr Lewis  is proposing to do at present threatens to shatter it. 
There has been a great deal of comment in the Press about the harm which is done by the assumption that instead of having 3-year Parliaments we will in future have one-year Parliaments in which the government of the day is constantly in hock to the Senate of the day because it knows that Supply can be withdrawn at 6- monthly intervals and therefore, it is argued, it will not persist with policies which are electoral liabilities. What is far more likely to result from the stand that was taken by the Liberal Senate majority last year, from the stand that the Liberal Premier of New South Wales is taking at present and from the stand that the Liberal Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  constantly foreshadow about the question of Supply in the middle of this year, is not so much that we shall have one-year Parliaments as that we shall have one-party government. What is being demonstrated is that there is one set of rules for Liberal-Country Party coalition governments and a different set of rules when the Labor Party is in power. 
When the Liberal-Country Party coalition was in power the thought was monstrous that the Senate should withhold Supply.  Sir Robert  Menzies denounced it. Everybody recognised that it was wrong. But what is the position when the Labor Party is in power? Out of the window go the conventions. The rule book is torn up. A different set of rules is brought into play. Under the Liberal-Country Party coalition it would have been thought monstrous for a State government to nominate a person from a party other than the one in which the vacancy for the Senate occurred. But what is the position when the Labor Party is in power? Again, the rule book is torn up. The convention goes out the window. There are 2 sets of rules. We are being asked to accept a 2-convention parliamentary systemone set of rules for the Liberal-Country Party coalition when it is in office and a different set of rules when the Labor Party is in office. I can imagine the pieties that honourable members opposite will come up with when these situations occur in future years- I hope long postponedwhen they again occupy the government benches. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! 

Don't be a bloody idiot' by the honourable member for Robertson. I ask him to withdraw that remark totally as it is ill-fitted to this House. 
-We are all overwhelmingly indebted to the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange- the Rae Committee- for creating a situation in which the Opposition can no more oppose regulation of the securities industry than it can oppose motherhood. That, in itself, is a considerable achievement. Unfortunately, where honourable gentlemen opposite dare not oppose openly, they delay instead. There is a remarkable overlap between the effect of the amendment moved by theDeputy Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)that  effect would be to delay the implementation of effective regulation of the securities industryand the pleas that are corning forward from the industry itself. This morning I was disturbed to read in a feature article contributed to the Melbourne 'Age' by the  Chairman  of the Melbourne Stock Exchange the following words: 
Those who have practical experience of the matters which the Bill seeks to control- particularly bodies other than the stock exchanges- should have been given ample opportunity to submit their views and suggestions, at least to ensure . . . that the legislation will be workable - 
I come to the key words-  and not just an emotional overreaction to the abuses - 
I ask honourable members to note the words abuses'-  which resulted from the great rnining boom of 1 969-70. 
Was ever a situation more understated than in that employment of the word 'abuses' to describe deceitful practices, unscrupulous deceptions and frauds which robbed not hundreds, not thousands, perhaps not tens of thousands, but hundreds of thousands of Australians of their life savings? Nothing could demonstrate more clearly how little the Australian stock exchanges learned from the experiences of those years than the words which are now used euphemistically in connection with the Poseidon boom. This legislation that we have before us tonight is long overdue. As the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  pointed out, it is legislation, the need for which was recognised in the United States 40 years ago. We can say with complete assurance that if honourable gentlemen opposite had earlier acted on the pieties about the need for this legislation which they now profess in debate while at the same time seeking to delay it, a small group of Australians would be a good deal poorer than they are today and a great many more Australians would be a good deal richer. 
Tonight the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  referred to the restoration of business confidence, and I have no doubt that when he talked about business confidence he had in mind, at least in part, the deplorable condition in which the stock exchange has found itself until the last two or three months. I say to the honourable member for Curtin that many thousands of Australian investors will not come back into the stock market in any circumstances until legislation of the kind we are debating tonight is in effect. They have had their fingers burnt once and they will not have that experience again. The honourable member for the Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  who is keeping up a mumbled flow of interjections in the background, made a rather clearer and more audible comment at an earlier stage in the debate. The honourable member for Hawker had contrasted with the light flick on the wrist style of punishment meted out to some of the criminals of the Poseidon era the fact that a young lady in his electorate who had stolen a record from a shop was sent to gaol for a month. The honourable member for Riverina interjected and said: 'She meant it'. He implied that the people from the Poseidon era did not mean it. 
I think that it was an extraordinarily revealing interjection because it showed how to the mind of a member of the Country Party the measure of guilt involved in an offence varies inversely with the size of the take. A person who takes a record worth $5 is a major criminal, especially if he or she is caught, but in the eyes of the members of the Country Party, but a person who gets away with $ lm or $2m by an unscrupulous stock market swindle has committed no offence. The larger the loot, the less the larceny. That is what the honourable member for Riverina meant by his interjection. That embodies the attitude of honourable members opposite to the stock market and to this legislation, and it explains why the present last ditch attempt at delay is being made. They hope that if the Bill can be stalled long enough it will go away. They want their friends and associates to have again the open slather of which they took such great advantage in the first years of this decade. 
The inspiration of this legislation is in part the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange- commonly known as the Rae Committee. The honourable member for Curtin tried to appropriate to his Party, when it was in Government, the initiative which led to the establishment of that Committee. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would know that just as the legislation that is before the House tonight is the work of the former Attorney-General, the former  Senator Murphy,  so the initiative for establishing the Rae Committee came from former  Senator Murphy  in his days as Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. He perceived the need, he took the initiative and he drafted the legislation. Would anybody in this chamber tonight or anybody in Australia seriously suggest that any action would have been taken if it had not been for the disclosures made by the Rae Committee as a result of years of meticulous investigation of the matters surrounding the Poseidon boom? I find that the memory of the Rae Committee grows cold; people are forgetting what it was all about and the details that it gave. Lest people think that I am partisan in this matter, I shall refer to the description of the Rae Committee report and its contents which was put forward at the time of its release by an independent commentator,  Mr Creighton  Burns of the Melbourne 'Age'. He wrote: 
That report, in case you have forgotten, catalogued conspiracy, fraud, deception, insider trading, share price rigging and sustained malpractice by some stock brokers and investment companies, during the last mineral boom. It demonstrated that committee members - 
I ask honourable members to note that; not the stock brokers themselves alone, but members of the committees of the exchanges - had been deeply involved in improper practices including the manipulation of share prices, and that the stock exchanges had done virtually nothing to discipline their members or to prevent a recurrence of the abuses. 
That was what  Mr Creighton  Burns wrote in the Melbourne 'Age' of 21 August 1974, at the time of the release of the Rae Committee report and some years after the collapse of the Poseidon boom. He wrote that the stock exchanges had done virtually nothing to discipline their members or, more significantly, to prevent a recurrence of the abuses. It is worth reminding honourable members of some- only a few- of the case histories which are set out in such detail in the Rae report. For instance, I mention again briefly, because it is so pre-eminently the great example thrown up by the Poseidon boom, the matter of Poseidon itself and the great beneficiary of Poseidon,  Mr Norman  Shierlaw. The Committee's concluding remarks in relating to Poseidon and to  Mr Shierlaw  are as follows: 
During the period leading up to the announcement of the discovery of nickel and copper sulphides the consulting geologists and one of the directors used their official and fiduciary positions to buy Poseidon shares for private profit. 

 Mr Shierlaw went further in facilitating what we believe was a persistent abuse of confidential knowledge by executing a substantial part of the geologists' buying orders through his own stockbroking firm. 
Reports and statements by the directors and geologists were evasive, distorted, exaggerated and simply untrue in important respects. 
He  (Mr Shierlaw)  abused his responsibilities both as a member of the stock exchange and as a director. 
There was another gentleman involved in the Poseidon affair. I refer to  Mr Hynam. Mr Hynam  was not simply a run-of-the-mill stockbroker; he was the  Chairman  of the Perth Stock Exchange. The Rae report said of  Mr Hynam: 
The  chairman  of the Perth Stock Exchange  (Mr G. I. Hynam)  resisted requests to carry out investigation into Poseidon and took no steps to refer the complaints to the Registrar of Companies. He was nevertheless prepared to ' support the actions of the Poseidon directors and geologists throughout this period. 
In  Mr Hynam  's case, we have expressed our concern that his immense personal and family gains from investments in Poseidon, and his close association with that company's geologists and with  Mr Shierlaw,  may have led him to subordinate his official obligations. 

 Mr Hynam 's general assertion about the efficiency of the stock exchange 's 'police force ' were, in our view, unjustified. 
That is a masterly understatement. It is one of the many masterly understatements that characterise the Rae report. Where are these people now?  Mr Hynam  may have been among the stockbrokers the Perth Stock Exchange announced last October it had fined severely. We do not know what 'severely' means because the Perth Stock Exchange has never told us the extent of the fines. As of last October the exchange had not taken the Australian people into its confidence. As the honourable member for Hawker has pointed out already, we do know the penalty imposed by the Adelaide Stock Exchange on  Mr Shierlaw.  He was suspended for 3 months and fined $2,100. Compare the gain; contrast the penalties. 
But  Mr Shierlaw  and  Mr Hynam,  while perhaps the best known beneficiaries of the Poseidon boom, were by no means the only beneficiaries. The report literally crawls with them. The House will recall that Patrick Partners made a great deal of money by selling shares in a firm called Barrier Exploration which was owned by an associated company called, curiously enough, Patrick Corporation, and operated at the time as Mining Traders. A  Major Douglas  of the Melbournebased Australian Investment Counsellors Pty Ltd was recruited to start a run on the stock. I will quote a revealing exchange on this matter which took plate during the proceedings of the Rae Committee.  Senator Rae  asked  Major Douglas: 
I just wondered whether there was any coincidence in the fact that at the same time as you were apparently receiving encouraging information from Patricks, Patricks were also dealing in a gigantic way on the market in these shares. 
The transcript of the Committee's proceedings goes on: 

 Major Douglas: I would be very sorry to hear that. 

 Senator Rae: Why is that? 

 Major Douglas: Because I hope that I have never been party to anything of that type in my life. 

 Senator Rae: In that respect do you think it is possible, if you accept from me as a fact that they were dealing in a really massive way in the market, that you were being set up to assist? 

 Major Douglas: I would hope to heaven that I was not. 
Even at this distance in time, how thin and unconvincing those words fall on our ears? Where are these gentlemen? Where are the principals of Patrick Partners? They may or may not have been among the stockbrokers who were fined some $67,000 by the Sydney Stock Exchange. Again the exchange has not seen fit to take the Australian people, the victims, into its confidence. But, of course, we do know one thing about Patrick Partners; we know that if the Liberal Party has its way, one of the members of that firm will be joining us in this House. He has been nominated as the opponent for the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  who is to speak later in this debate. If he were to be elected, we would have the advantage of the inside knowledge of one of the great insider traders of our time. 
It would be possible to go on for some time - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. 
-Can the Minister for Housing and Construction give the House information about increasing levels of demand in the housing industry? Can he say what progress has been made in applying the principles set out in the 
Government's report on industrial housing to meet these rising levels of demand? 
I ask the Attorney-General a question. Is he aware of any developments which might stand in the way of the proper development of the Australian Legal Aid Offices? Can he say which sections of our community would be disadvantaged by any such developments? 
-There was a time when people in this country regarded the democratic system as one under which they were able to choose between two clearly delineated bodies of policy, between two clearly delineated sets of proposals. How sadly they must have been disappointed upon listening to today's debate and realising how little of a positive nature Opposition members are willing to put forward when they bring before the House for discussion the economic situation in this country. How staggeringly bankrupt it is for a senior member of the Opposition, a front bench member of the Opposition, such as the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  to get to his feet and call upon the Government to make cuts in public spending and have no better examples to bring before the House than the overseas travel and gardening of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  As if either of these aspects of expenditure are new to the Australian Budget. As if either of them aggregated would make the remotest contribution to the cause the honourable member for Fisher purports to argue. 
But the bankruptcy of Opposition members in this area of putting forward positive proposals for the economic wellbeing of Australia is not really as depressing as their absolute inability to acknowledge the value-indeed, the indispensability of flexibility in any effective program of economic management. Although the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  argued this afternoon that tariff cuts, revaluation of the Australian dollar and restrictions on capital inflow are not appropriate in today's economic climate, that does not mean that they were necessarily inappropriate when they were implemented in 1973. 
Let me recall to the House, not for the purposes of recrimination but simply so that particular sets of economic proposals can be put in their proper economic and historic perspective, the situation as it existed in 1973 when the measures criticised this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition were introduced. Let me remind the House that in the course of 1972 the money supply in this country underwent the greatest expansion since Federation. That was not a factor which occurred in isolation. At the very same time that honourable members opposite were indulging in the practice for which they now so fiercely criticise the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)-  namely, a rapid increase in the money supply- capital inflow into this country was at an unprecedented level. In the course of a 12 month period there was a capital inflow of $2,000m. Then again, at the same time, we had a currency which was notoriously undervalued, which was itself enabling overseas buyers to snap up our primary products- the products of the farms, the products of the mines- at bargain prices with undervalued Australian dollars. As a result of those 3 factors working one with the other we had the classic demand inflationary situation- too much money chasing too few goods. 
What were the measures that the Government devised to meet that situation to ensure that there were products on the shelves of the shops which people could buy with the money they had in their pockets? We took effective action to step up the supply of goods. The tariff cuts are properly seen in that context. They ensured that at a time when Australian manufacturers were unable to meet the demands of Australian consumers goods from overseas could come into this country at competitive prices. The effect of the revaluation of the Australian dollar, which was much criticised by honourable members opposite, had the same effect in that again goods that Australian manufacturers could not supply to meet the demands of Australian consumers could come in from overseas at competitive prices and in that at the same time it prevented the continuation of the bargain basement sale of Australian products that were needed by the Australian community. Those were the solutions appropriate to a phase in our economic affairs of demand inflation. We are now being criticised by honourable members opposite as if those measures had been implemented at a time of cost inflation, at a time when demand pressures in the community, far from being excessive, were in fact deficient. 
What was the situation that took over? As prices were forced up in the competitive auction for products and people were willing to pay inflated prices in order to get possession of goods which were in short supply, inevitably at the same time employees' organisations were bound to push for higher wages, higher salaries, in order simply to maintain their purchasing power and to ensure that they could buy as much at the end of 1973 as they had been able to buy at the beginning of the year. So it was that as the demand pressures eased off we still had the inflationary situation arising from these cost pressures. Thus there is no inconsistency- this afternoon the Leader of the Opposition argued that there was an inconsistency- between the Treasurer saying at one time that inflationary pressures in this country had been generated by problems of demand and the Prime Minister saying at another stage in our inflationary cycle that those pressures were generated by costs. These are 2 aspects of the same problem, and it seems to me to be enormously regrettable that Opposition members cannot seem to enlarge their perspective to take in that fact and to acknowledge that solutions to economic problems which may be appropriate at a particular point in the trade cycle may be inappropriate at another point in the trade cycle, and vice versa. 
In his speech this afternoon the Leader of the Opposition had something to say about the selfishness and greed which he believed had been encouraged in Australia over the last 2 years. I agree with the Leader of the Opposition to the extent that I agree that selfishness and greed have a great deal to do with our economic problems at the present time. But these are not new features of Australian society. These are not qualities in the human personality which have come to light in the last 2 years or, indeed, which have been greatly stimulated in the last 2 years. The Leader of the Opposition was right this afternoon when he said that our community was a victim of excessive expectations but he was wrong when he blamed those expectations on the Government. It is true that Australians have been led to expect more than the resources of the community can possibly be stretched to provide for them but, overwhelmingly, that process of creating excessive expectations has been carried on within the private sector of the economy by the greatest of all demand producing pressures in our society- the advertising industry. 
It is not too high a quality of school, it is not too high a quality of health care services, it is not too high a quality of public transport, it is not even too much attention to salvaging what is left of our natural heritage which Australians demand, but a house which is finished and furnished too quickly, a car which is replaced too frequently, or literally thousands of products for which no need would ever have been recognised if it had not been invented. I cite my own case. When I was newly married and moved for the first time into a house of my own it was a weatherboard box of 10 squares, bare of furniture, uncarpeted, with no garage- the simplest form of accommodation that one could imagine. Over the years that house was extended to accommodate children, was furnished, acquired a garage and a garden. My children and their friends expect that they will move into the whole shebang instantly. They expect that they shall have a three bedroomed brick veneer fully furnished house with a garage outside and a car in the garage. 
The expectations which have been excited in this country, which outstrip the resources of this country, are overwhelmingly in the private sector. They are expectations fanned and exacerbated by the advertising industry. It is not too good a quality of school, it is not too good a quality of health care, it is not too good a quality of public transport, it is not the environmental concern, it is not those things on which overwhelmingly this country or this Government has spent money in the last 2 years which Australians demand, but a thousand and one frivolities for which demand has been invented or magnified in the most cynical way. 
My question, which is concerned with environmental impact statements on urban freeways, is directed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Is the Minister aware that the environmental impact inquiry being conducted into Victoria's proposed F19 freeway does not allow proper evaluation of the upgrading of the Maroondah Highway, perhaps in conformity with the Olivero approach which the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety has recommended? Is he aware of the serious worry and financial loss that residents of Ringwood will suffer if further studies are made into the studies which have already been conducted on this matter? Will he advise the Victorian Transport Minister that an inquiry which omitted a thorough exploration of the upgrading alternative to the freeway proposal would be incomplete and unacceptable to the Government? Will he ask that the inquiry be pursued with expedition? 
I would like to express concern this evening over the Victorian Minister of Education using Karmel funds to construct some sub-standard primary school libraries for Government schools in Victoria. Honourable members will be aware that the Primary Schools Library Advisory Committee and the Secondary Schools Library Advisory Committee, associated with the Schools Commission, have laid down standards which should be observed in the construction of libraries with Karmel funds. In the case of non-government schools, these standards are mandatory under the States Grants (Schools) Act 1973, but in the case of State Departments of Education it is left to the discretion of individual Ministers for Education to decide whether or not the standards are observed. 
It will be remembered that in the course of the Federal election campaign in May last year there came to light a document which revealed that the Victorian Minister for Education,  Mr Lindsay  Thompson, had decided to construct an overwhelming majority of the primary school libraries in Victoria each a grade lower in size or standard than had been recommended by the Schools Commission committees. This was recommended on advice from the Victorian Education Department itself. At the time the matter generated considerable controversy and  Mr Thompson  retreated. He gave assurances that all libraries built in Victoria with Karmel funds would be built to the full Australian Government specifications. One of the libraries which had been designed for sub-standard construction was at the Croydon North primary school in my own electorate. After the controversy had passed the State member who was responsible for this area was quoted in the local Press as follows: 
I am happy to announce that the Victorian Minister for Education,  Mr Thompson,  has approved the largest appropriate Commonwealth plan for a library of 2714 squares for the Croydon North school. 
This assurance was confirmed by  Mr Lacy  in writing in a letter to the school committee. It was confirmed again by  Mr Thompson  orally- he did not put his thoughts in writing- when he visited the school. But in the last week it has emerged that  Mr Lacy  and  Mr Thompson  have gone back on their word and that this library, together no doubt with many others, is again to be reduced in size. 
You,  Mr Speaker,  would appreciate that this is a very serious departure from the whole principle of the Karmel report which was directed at ensuring that all Australian children get an equal opportunity to develop their capacities and have similar educational facilities at their disposal, irrespective of the sorts of schools they attend, the sorts of incomes their parents receive, the places they go to church, the areas in which they live or any other factor. If this decision on the part of the Victorian Education Minister is carried through it can lead only to a situation where libraries constructed from the same source of funds, from the Australian Government Karmel funds, are of one standard in non-government schools and of an inferior standard in government schools- in size particularly but no doubt in other respects as well. 
It seems that this development springs from 2 factors. On the one hand, there is a desire on the part of the Victorian Government to make the Australian Government bear the full cost of implementing Premier Hamer's election undertaking of 1 973 to build a library in every primary school of significant size. On the other hand, this situation seems to arise from a quite extraordinary incompetence in the spending of Karmel funds on the part of the Victorian school building authorities. This is brought out by some figures that I have obtained in the last week. The Torquay primary school and the Pyramid Hill higher elementary school are building 15 square libraries for $28,000 and $23,000 respectively because they have been able to deal directly with builders of their own choice, but the cost of the 15 square library which is being built at Keilor primary school under the auspices of the Victorian Public Works Department is $64,000. Fawkner North parish school is building its 15 square library for $32,900, but the cost of the Public Works Department's libraries of the same size at Monbulk primary school, Antonio Park primary school and Hamilton primary school is $44,000, $48,700 and $78,000 respectively. It is ' simply not possible to explain away, to brush aside, discrepancies of that order with the explanation that there are differences in the site or structure from school to school. We have a position in which a library built for a primary school in Victoria is costing roughly twice as much when the Public Works Department lets the contract as when the school itself is able independently to choose a builder and make its arrangements with him. 
I think it must be a matter of serious concern to this House, particularly when it leads to the intentions of the States Grants (Schools) Act 1973 being undercut, as they are when smaller, sub-standard libraries, are built in government schools by comparison with the libraries which are being built to mandatory standards in nongovernment schools. When the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1975 comes before this House, I believe it will be necessary to give serious consideration to making building standards and other standards mandatory for State departments of education as they were made mandatory in the 1973 legislation for non-government school authorities. 
It is very much to be regretted that an insufficiency of information in the Australian media has made it possible for some employees of the insurance industry to be worried by stories about this legislation and the intention behind it which have no basis whatsoever in fact. It is very much to be regretted that this opportunity has been used by some people in senior positions in the insurance industry and elsewhere to campaign not in the legitimate interests of the insurance industry, but against the broad program of the elected Australian Government. I hope to have time to say something more about that at a later stage. 
I should not launch into this debate this afternoon without saying at the outset that the Australian Government rejects nationalisation of the insurance industry either directly, which could not be carried through without a referendum, or indirectly, by stealth, as some insurance spokesmen have suggested. The Government is committed to the maintenance of a mixed economy in which private and public enterprises co-exist and compete freely and fairly with one another, as has been the case for many years with TransAustralia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia and with the Commonwealth Bank and the private banks. This Government regards the existence of monopolies in either the private sector or the public sector as against the public interest. It rules out nationalisation of the insurance industry as monopolisation under another name. 
It could not be argued that all was well economically with the Australian insurance industry. The number of cents in every premium dollar which is eaten up by operating costs has been rising steadily throughout recent years. In 1968 it was 22.51c in every dollar, in 1969, 22.91c in every dollar, in 1970 23.29c in every dollar, in 1971 24.5c in every dollar and in 1972 24.52c in every dollar. This means that $1 in every $4 that Australians pay for life assurance is needed simply to keep the colossal administrative structure of this industry on its feet. It is spent, as we now know and as most Australians now know, although they had little inkling until this week, on political campaigns undertaken without the consent of their policy holders or it is taken up with contributions- whether in cash or in kind is immaterial- to political parties such as the National Country Party of Australia. 
If we look at the annual reports of particular companies operating in the insurance industry the position is shown to be even more disturbing. In 1973-74 the Sun Alliance Insurance Co. spent 33c of every premium dollar it was paid on commissions and expenses. The Commercial Union Insurance Co. of Australia spent 36c and the QBE Insurance Co. 38c. The commissions and expenses for State government insurance offices totalled only 6c in the premium dollar for Victoria, 8c for New South Wales and 20c for Queensland. The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee),  who can always be relied upon to make a reasoned contribution to these debates had some reservations about the comparability of those figures. Of course there are difficulties in comparing statistics of this kind but no difficulty in definition of category will account for the enormous discrepancy which is exposed in the figures I have given. 
This Government is concerned about the extent to which the Australian general insurance industry is owned and controlled outside this country. Overseas insurance companies, as the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  was telling us a short time ago, transact 77c in every dollar of this country's reinsurance business. I gather that the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  who is trying to interject, regards that fact with indifference. That is not the case on this side of the House. People on this side regard it as deplorable that a business which so pre-eminently lends itself to conduct within Australia should be so overwhelmingly conducted outside Australia. As I said, overseas companies transact 77c in every dollar of our reinsurance business. Overseas companies receive 77.7 per cent of every dollar paid by Australians on marine insurance, 65.2 per cent of our fire insurance premiums, 52.9 per cent of our personal accident insurance and more than half our household comprehensive insurance. All told, the locally controlled free enterprise general insurance companies- the people who are primarily responsible for the agitation against this Bill- conduct only 34.7 per cent of Australia's general insurance business. That is the amount all these companies have to share among themselves, whereas the 15 largest overseas companies alone take 32. 1 per cent of our business. The share of the 15 largest overseas companies is almost as much as the total share of the Australian companies of the Australian general insurance market. Of course the extent of overseas control would be even greater if overseas companies had not so successfully offloaded on the State government insurance offices so much of the less profitable aspects of insurance business, most notably third party motor insurance. One important reason for establishing the Australian Government Insurance Corporation is this Government's firm belief that the occasion of the introduction of new forms of insurance activity such as crop insurance and natural disaster insurance - 
I ask the Minister for Services and Property a question. In what countries does the electoral legislation provide for the printing of the party affiliation of the political candidates on the ballot paper? In the event of a proposal of this sort being adopted in Australia, what action, if any, could be taken to prevent political organisations from misrepresenting their aims and objectives under, say, a false title? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Labor and Immigration been drawn to a letter issued by an insurance company in which that company threatens employees with loss of employment if they fail to sign petitions opposing the Australian Government Insurance Corporation? Has the attention of the Minister also been drawn to a recent statement by the  chairman  of the Life Offices Association,  Mr 
Renton, that insurance employees who are even lukewarm in their opposition to the Corporation may face discrimination in the form of nonpromotion? 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the statement made yesterday by the  Chairman  of the Australian Mutual Provident Society Ltd,  Sir Vincent  Fairfax, acknowledging that there have been over-reaction and impulsive defensive side swipes by insurers in response to Government proposals for an Australian Government Insurance Corporation? Has his attention also been drawn to  Sir Vincent's  comment that it was time for a truce? Will he confirm for  Sir Vincent  and for the insurance industry as a whole that the door remains open, as it always has been open, for the industry to put constructive proposals to the Government for improvement in the Corporation proposals? Will he reassure industry employees, who have been led to fear without any basis in fact that the Government intends nationalising the industry, that that is not the case? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. Is the Minister aware of the extreme disadvantage which is caused to potato producers, processors and consumers by rapid changes in the level of imports and by fluctuations in price from year to year? Can he tell the House what progress has been made in the Commonwealth Statistician's investigations aimed at forecasting the level of imports rather than reporting them after they have arrived in the country? What progress has been made in establishing a potato industry panel to promote consultation between the industry and the Government? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, it is now more than 10 years since the Martin Committee on the Future of Tertiary Education in Australia laid down the blueprint for tertiary education which is reflected in the Bills under discussion in the House tonight. At the beginning of the 1960s the tertiary sector of Australian education was made up overwhelmingly of the State universities, supplemented with a few dozen tertiary technical institutions. The Martin Committee made the great contribution of looking beyond the universities and the technical institutions, as they were then, to a more diversified arrangement in which the universities took their places beside a new form of tertiary education- the college of advanced education. (Quorum formed) The interest taken in this Parliament in matters of tertiary education is faithfully reflected tonight by the fact that the Government benches are crowded at a time when there are 3- members of the Liberal Party and 4 members of the National Country Party of Australia in the chamber. 
I was saying before I was interrupted- as indeed I have been interrupted on the last 3 occasions on which I have spoken in this House by honourable members opposite calling for a quorum- that we owe it to the Martin Committee of the early 1960s that we now have in this country so diversified a system of tertiary education. We have the universities and the colleges of advanced education, and now the teachers colleges which for the first time are autonomous and free of the control of State departments of education, and the technical colleges which for the first time are the subject of assistance from the national government following on the recommendations in the report of the Technical and Further Education Commission. But in taking satisfaction in the diversity of this arrangement, I think the House can well ask itself whether it is not time for a further inquiry into the structure of Australian tertiary education. There is now a widespread questioning in our community whether and how well the structures established on the recommendation of the Martin Committee suit a very different sort of a society a decade further on in our history. I would very much hope that this year, or at the very latest next year, a further inquiry into tertiary education will be established. I have no doubt that the right man is at hand in Professor Peter Karmel who conducted the inquiry into Australian schools at an earlier time. 
I hope that in laying down the terms of reference for an inquiry into tertiary education we would not require the committee to look simply into the question of structures. The time is now long overdue for us to redefine the goals which are served by tertiary education. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  in his remarks earlier this evening dwelt at some length on the very great outlay of public money which is absorbed every year by tertiary education. He might have gone on to say something about the very great sums of public money which are lost every year at the tertiary level by students failing courses and by students dropping out of courses. We can legitimately ask ourselves how well the courses at our tertiary institutions are tailored to the needs of the students when there is such a significant failure rate and such a significant rate of drop-out in every one of the institutions concerned. The honourable member for Sturt would know that figures have been taken out on the cost to the community of students who fail and students who drop out. 
-The honourable member for Hotham interjects, correctly enough that it is not all waste. Nevertheless, it can be argued that in a situation in which funds for education are necessarily short and in which priorities have to be assigned the best use is not being made of these things in this way. It is for that reason that I urge the view tonight on the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)-  I know that he is receptive to it- that steps should be taken in the very near future to get a further inquiry into tertiary education off the ground. One of the features of the present system, which I suppose is particularly disturbing, is the proliferation in the tertiary sphere of controlling bodies which yet lack any single body for the purposes of co-ordination. We have a Universities Commission; we have an Advanced Education Commission; we have a Technical and Further Education Commission; and we have that curious hybrid body in my own State- the State College of Victoria- which exercises overall responsibility for teacher education, for the autonomous teachers colleges. Again I think the time is long overdue for us to have a single tertiary commission. 
Debate interrupted. 
A single tertiary commission should be established so that the various threads of responsibility in the field could be drawn together, so that the goals could be adequately served, so that admission policies could be co-ordinated and so that greater ordering on a basis of priorities could be brought to bear on the funding process. There is another matter into which I think an inquiry into tertiary education could properly address itself and that is the question as to whether our children, our young people, should be moving directly from high schools, the secondary stage of their education, to the tertiary stage. It has been one of the more healthy developments in the education system in recent years that increasingly our young people choose to take a year off before taking up their university or college of advanced education course. I wonder whether that arrangement should not be fostered rather than discouraged, as is the case at present. I find that the university authorities in particular seem to regard the deferral of a course- that is, where a boy or girl takes up a university place won in the quota battle only after a year away at some other occupation- as the conferring of a favour, and this is rather a pity. The advantage that students would take of their tertiary education would be infinitely greater if this year away from education, this year outside the formal framework of education became the rule rather than the exception as it is at present. 
Many of us can think back to the experience of sevicemen who returned to tertiary education after the Second World War and can recall how infinitely greater was the advantage that those men and women took of their university places at the more mature age at which they were able to take them up. I think it is a pity that we did not learn something from that experience that we could have expressed in our institutional arrangements for tertiary education. One of the many undesirable effects of the quota system at the tertiary level, perhaps the most undesirable effect of all, has been the way it has militated against the mature age student wanting to come back to undertake further education. (Quorum formed) I am not sure what it is - 
That the House do now adjourn. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware that there is widespread concern in New South Wales over increasing municipal and utility rates? Is he aware that die Premier of New South Wales has attributed these increases to Australian Government policies? Will he confirm that this Government is the first national government to give direct assistance both for municipal projects and for utility projects? 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to a statement that the Budget deficit would have been only half as great if it had not been for Medibank? Can he say whether this statement is true and, if so, how the situation has arisen? 
-In his Budget Speech a week ago the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  announced a responsible blueprint for lasting economic recovery. The Treasurer identified clearly the elements for an historic compromise around which all Australians can unite. He buried decisively the issues which have been the source of all our recent divisions. 
The measures that the Treasurer proposed overwhelmingly meet the criteria for sound economic management which have been laid down over many months not only by the Government and its economic advisers but also by Opposition spokesmen, university economists, industry, unions and the media. There has been a consensus that the rate of expansion in Government expenditure should be reduced and the Treasurer has slashed that expansion by half, from 46 per cent to 23 per cent. There has been a consensus that a deficit of between $2, 500m and $3,000m is needed to bring down inflation without precipitating catastrophic unemployment, and the Treasurer has budgeted for a total deficit of $2,798m or a domestic deficit of $2,068m. 
There has been a consensus that either income tax should be indexed or the income tax scale should be reformed in the interests of reducing pressure on the purchasing power of wages and salaries, and the Treasurer has brought down a completely new system of income tax which combines the advantages of tax scale reform and tax indexation. There has been a consensus that benefits should be provided for the private sector of the economy, and the Treasurer has reduced company tax by  2Vi  per cent or $120m and extended and expanded the double depreciation allowance while, as the Melbourne  Age  pointed out in Thursday's leading article: 
The large concessions which  Mr Hayden  has given to the poor under the new tax concessions must help the private sector recovery. These people have virtually no choice but to spend the additions to their incomes through the tax system and most of this additional spending will be on goods produced by the private sector. 
There has been a consensus that confidence is needed as the basis for an expansion of economic activity, and the Treasurer has made available the ingredients for confidence in the form not only of his specific Budget proposals but also of the economic expertise and authority of his Budget Speech. 
Tonight the ball passed from the court of the Treasurer and the Government to the court of the Australian community as a whole. Tonight the success of the Budget strategy, and through it the health of the economy as a whole, rests with the groups the Treasurer addressed last Tuesday when he said: 
With a community appreciation of the need for restraint we can make a real start on getting inflation under control and further raising real standards for everybody. 
The Treasurer has presented a blueprint for overcoming inflation and unemployment which is clearly in conformity with the pre-Budget consensus. It remains to be seen whether the Opposition spokesmen, university economists, the business interests, the unions and the media who all involved themselves in the Budget-making process will now involve themselves equally in the process of making this Budget a success. 
There are times for confrontation and there are times for co-operation. There are times for putting first the party interest and times for putting first public interest. There are times to divide and times to unite. When Neville Chamberlain spoke to the House of Commons after the fall of France, Julian Amery called out to him: 'Speak for England '. There is a responsibility on the part of every member of this Parliament to speak for Australia here in this Budget debate. Last week Britain's Conservative Party Opposition pledged itself not to seek Party advantage from the economic measures Britain's Labour Government is taking to overcome inflation and unemployment. The Acting Opposition Leader,  Mr William  Whitelaw, said: 
We shall stand by  Mr Wilson  if his policy is challenged, and encourage him and his Ministers to stand firm in the battle. 
He said: 
Anyone from any quarter who seeks by any' method to break the Government's counter-inflation policy will receive neither comfort nor encouragement from the Conservative  Party 
Is there any less that Australians should expect from this Parliament? Is there any less that Australians should expect from the universities, industry, the unions or the media? Is there any less that Parliament and all the nation's other opinion makers should wish to give? 
Last week we saw an exhibition of the sort of old-fashioned politics of abuse, exaggeration and assault on public confidence we are simply unable to afford in this new world economic environment. We saw the Budget confidence, which has been recognised overwhelmingly as the key to economic growth and prosperity, attacked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Eraser)  on a basis which the Canberra commentator of the Melbourne  Age  has described as 'facile' and 'evidence that he had not correctly read and understood' the Budget. We saw the Budget itself exposed to a process of quite cynical misrepresentation by sections of the media which had made up their minds in advance to divide the nation against its Government and against itself. In his Budget Speech the Treasurer acknowledged that: 
The course charted has its risks, and the possibility of temporary reverses cannot be ruled out. 
He said: 
If there is an equal commitment in the community to play its part in steering the economy back to a firmer footing we shall be able to overcome any such temporary problems. 
In a free society such as our own there can be no room for a holding back of alternatives to particular policies or courses of action, but equally in the present circumstances there is no room for the sort of self-seeking negative criticism which forestalls economic recovery by destroying the confidence on which recovery feeds. There is room for the Leader of the Opposition to say, as he said tonight, that instead of raising indirect taxes along the lines proposed by the Treasurer he would reduce Government spending by a further $1 billion but there is no room for him to say, as he did a week ago and as he has done again tonight: 
The Budget does not attack the main problems of Australia, the problems of rising prices, high and rising unemployment and increasing costs, and in particular it does not attack the problems of a revival of business confidence. 
There is room for the Leader of the Opposition to say that instead of raising indirect taxes along the lines proposed by the Treasurer, he would either budget for a higher deficit or forgo the Budget reductions in company tax and personal income tax, but there is not room for him to say, inaccurately and destructively, as he did last Thursday, that: 
The Budget will not cure inflation, it will give no real incentive to the business world so that it can invest and provide jobs, and basically the income tax proposals are a fraud. 
Basically comments of the sort that the Leader of the Opposition made on Tuesday, on Thursday and again tonight are designed to be selffulfilling prophecies. They are designed to produce the sort of results that they pretend to deplore. On Thursday- and I remind the House again- the Leader of the Opposition said: 'Basically the income tax proposals are a fraud'. Let us examine the proposals which have drawn so outspoken a criticism from  Mr Fraser.  Let us examine these proposals which the Leader of the Opposition feels he must condemn even if it means bringing down the economy around the ears of the entire Australian community. Under the tax proposals which  Mr Fraser  condemns the number of tax brackets in the tax scale has been reduced from fourteen to seven, and the marginal tax rate for many taxpayers with annual incomes between $5,000 and $10,000 has been reduced from 45c in the dollar to 35c in the dollar. This amounts in practice to effective tax indexation for an overwhelming majority of low and middle income earners, who will be able to accept any foreseeable increase in average weekly earnings without finding themselves lifted into higher tax tables. Under the Budget tax proposals which  Mr Fraser  condemns half a million taxpayers with incomes up to $2,520 in the case of single people and up to $5,229 in the case of the average family, will pay no tax whatsoever. Under the tax proposals which  Mr Fraser  condemns every taxpayer, irrespective of his income, will receive back the first $540 of tax for which he is liable, or the equivalent of $1,350 of allowable rebate at the rate of 40c in the dollar. Under the tax proposals which  Mr Fraser  condemns every taxpayer, irrespective of his income, will receive back a further 40c in the dollar of allowable rebates in excess of $1,350. Under the  tax proposals which  Mr Fraser  condemns 100 000 single parents raising children on thenown will become entitled  to a new $200 solo parent rebate, and the  education  tax  deducation  of $150 will be replaced by an education rebate of $250. I ask permission to incorporate in Hansard tables setting out the implications of the new tax measures for single taxpayers and for taxpayers with families of various sizes. 
I for one have pride in the increased extent to which retired Australians now share the prosperity for which their eftorts laid the foundations. In December 1972, when the previous Government was first elected, the pension for aged, widowed and invalid Australians was $20 a week or 20 per cent of average weekly earnings. Today that pension is $56, or 24 per cent of average weekly earnings. On the first pay day in November it will rise to $38.75, or 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. In December 1972 the pension was subject to the means test. Today the pension is means test free for all Australians 70 years of age and over. From 1 July 1976 the pension will be means test free for all Australians 69 years of age and over. In December 1972 the pensioner medical service allowed pensioners to visit the general practitioner of their choice but not the specialist of their choice. Today Medibank allows pensioners a free choice of both general practitioners and specialists on the same basis as other sections of the community. In December 1972 the pensioner medical services provided pensioners with free public ward hospital care but made no contribution whatsoever towards the cost of their care in private or intermediate wards. Today Medibank provides a choice of free public ward care or an $18 daily contribution towards private or intermediate ward costs. Since December 1972 prices have risen by 41 per cent and average weekly earnings have risen by 52 per cent but the pension has risen by 80 per cent. According to the economics writer of the Bulletin,  Mr Peter  Samuel- no friend of this Government- the purchasing power of pensioners has been lifted by 25 per cent over a period of less than 3 years. 
I have a pride, too, in new educational opportunities opened up for children from isolated areas, children who have physical or mental handicaps, children from homes where if English is spoken at all it is as a second language, Aboriginal children, children with socio-economic disadvantages and just ordinary children whose need for teaching staff, accommodation and equipment has simply never been met by the state or systemic education authorities which are responsible for them. Above all I have a pride in Vincent Lingiari, old man of the Gurindji tribe, receiving a handful of earth from the Prime Minister of Australia 2 weeks ago. The Prime Minister said: 
I want to give back to you formally in Aboriginal and Australian law ownership of the land of your fathers. 
Vincent Lingiari replied at length in his own language and then he said in English: 
We are all right now. We all friendly. We all mates. 
All of us have something to learn from those words spoken as they were with dignity and simplicity at what was arguably the most important ceremony ever conducted jointly by Australians of European origin and Australians of Aboriginal origin. The Budget holds out for us as never before a clear picture of what we can make of ourselves as a nation on the basis of cooperation. Equally, the Budget demonstrates the anarchy into which we can be plunged if major community groups each pursue to the bitter end their separate and sectional interests, irrespective of whether these interests are higher wages, higher profits or public projects where the costs exceed the capacity of the public purse. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Defence. Is he aware of any alternative defence program having been put forward in this country? Can he say whether such proposals involve a substantial increase in defence expenditure? Can he say whether any timetable for implementing such an increase in expenditure has been proposed? If not, can he say whether this represents an appropriate sense of urgency about the matter? 
Questions cannot anticipate discussion upon an order of the day or other matter. 
It would appear to me that the matter raised by the honourable member infringes that standing order. 
It would be inappropriate to let the discussion on these estimates go by without acknowledging the contribution which has been made to the affairs of this nation by the women's section of the Prime Minister's Department. It would be inappropriate to let these Estimates go by without acknowledging the work of the special adviser of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on women's affairs, Elizabeth Reid. Nobody who had the opportunity to attend the recent Women in Politics conference in Canberra and who at the same time followed the coverage of that conference in the Australian media would doubt that women's aspirations face formidable opposition in this country. Nobody who followed the media coverage of that conference would doubt that there are powerful forces prepared and eager to misrepresent those aspirations and needs in every way and at every opportunity. 
I doubt whether any recent event in the affairs of this country has been exposed to quite the pattern of systematic distortion as that conference attracted in the week it was meeting in Canberra. I doubt whether many figures in public life who are not elected representatives have attracted quite the amount of abuse and misrepresentation which has been the lot of Elizabeth Reid ever since she was first appointed to the staff of the Prime Minister- an abuse which some of us noted culminating yesterday in the remarks of the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen. Mr Bjelke-Petersen  accused Elizabeth Reid, in company with  Mrs Whitlam,  of wanting to control Australians' lives through the promotion of pornography and by promoting prostitution, easy divorce and abortion. There we have the authentic voice of the man who so often provides leadership for honourable members opposite. There we have the authentic attitude of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party to the aspirations and the needs of women in this country. It is well known that what Premier BjelkePetersen says today will be said tomorrow by other members of the National Country Party and subsequently by members of the Liberal Party, because it is  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  upon whom we can rely to say those things openly and publicly which members of the Liberal and National Country Parties think but will never voice. 
The work of the women's section of the Prime Minister's Department, which has been fostered and systematised by Elizabeth Reid, has come an enormous distance over the last 3 years. It now seems scarcely believable that as late as 1973 it was still necessary for this Government to introduce equal pay for women in the Australian Public Service. It seems scarcely believable that as late as 1973 it was necessary for this Government to introduce maternity leave for women in the Australian Public Service. It seems scarcely believable that fundamental, basic arrangements in the working hours of the Public Service, such as flexitime, should have had to be introduced so late in order to give women equal employment opportunities in the Public Service. Just those 3 changes- the introduction of equal pay, the introduction of flexitime and the introduction of maternity leave- have created a profound change not only in the opportunities that are open to women but also to the aspirations which they can realistically entertain for themselves. 
This is not all that the Government has done for women. I refer to the work of the Australian Assistance Plan and the work of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission in making sure that women are able to establish for themselves the community faculties which are required to meet their special needs- the women's health centres which are springing up in the various States of Australia under the Hospitals and Health Services Commission program, the halfway houses which have been established in a couple of State capitals under the same auspices and the drop-in social centres which are growing up under the Australian Assistance Plan. Facilities which had never previously appeared on the horizon for women in this country are now realities being used by women day in and day out. These facilities are being duplicated across the land because of the success which the pilot projects have so clearly achieved. 
Nor is this all. There is the work the Government has done to combat discrimination in employment. The work of inquiry, investigation and research which lead up to the establishment of the committees against discrimination in employment represent yet another major step forward in opening up a true equality of opportunity for all the women of this country. Another important single step forward has yet to pay off for the women of our community. I refer, of course, to the establishment of the Royal Commission on Human Relations, which was set up with both supporters and opponents drawn from each side of this House. It is that Royal Commission which is inquiring into the basic social relationships which define and confine, in many cases, the openings which are available to women. 
The important task ahead of the women's section of the Prime Minister's Department is to work in harmony with the Schools Commission on the Schools Commission's recommendations that in the triennium immediately ahead special attention should be given to the education of women. The Schools Commission has recognised that the present arrangements for education in this country confine the vision that women have of the career opportunities which are open to them. It is very necessary that women should be made fully conscious of the wide variety of options which are open to them in a country like Australia. It should be made clear to her that a woman has the option of making motherhood a career in itself, that she has the option of combining motherhood with a career outside the home and that she has the option of making a total commitment to the work force. But that is not the sort of consciousness which she is likely to get at the present time from an overwhelming majority of schools in this country where the material in the textbooks which are used, the social attitudes of the teachers to whom instruction is entrusted and the guidance offered by vocational guidance staff all combine to impose on women a most narrow and confining definition of their role and potential for self development. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Children who are poor, children who are black, children who are female, children from families where English is spoken, if at all, as a second language, children from country areas or children who suffer from mental or physical handicaps, including specific learning difficulties, have been victims of educational deprivation on a massive scale. If in this place debates on education tend to be expressed in terms of money it is because of the massive infusion of funds which has been necessary over the last 3 years to redress the balance to some extent. It will be a slow and painful process, a slow and expensive process making good the years that the locusts ate up- the 23 years when educational expenditure in this country at the Federal level and at the State level was low and misdirected because overwhelmingly it was the children I have catalogued whose schools were the most crowded, the oldest, whose classes were the largest, whose equipment was the most inadequate, who overall received the worst possible deal educationally. For those children who came from homes where education was valued, where achievement was encouraged, for those children what encouragement was available educationally was given but it would be a mistake for these Estimates debates to be concerned exclusively with expenditure. 
It would be a mistake to make too much of the figures which have been set out by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in the paper attached to the Budget Papers and to which the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  referred because it has become very clear, I think, to people professionally involved in the field of education, and it is becoming clear to the community at large, that no amount of money can make good entirely for a lack of stimulus in the home. No amount of expenditure on schools can wholly compensate those children who come from homes where little or no value is placed on education or where the education process is ill understood. 
I want to say something tonight in the context of these estimates about the need for parental education. This is a field to which the United States of America is now devoting a very great deal of attention. It was recognised 10 years ago in the United States that children who had had the advantage of a pre-school education were able to come to grips more rapidly and more thoroughly with the formal education process when they got to primary school; that at every subsequent stage of education they were better off than children who had not been able to find places in pre-school centres. So it was that the American federal government sponsored the head-start program to see that America's most deprived children, the black children, the poor children-  (Quorum formed).  I was saying when I was interrupted by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner),  who called for the quorum and who appears not to take the subject under discussion seriously, that the United States federal government initiated the head-start program so that poor children, black children and children disadvantaged in other ways would be fully equipped to take advantage of a primary school education when it became available to them. But it rapidly became apparent when the results of the head-start program were analysed that not even this step, not even getting the disadvantaged child at the earliest possible stage of his life, was a sufficient response to the disadvantage of which he was a victim. As a result the American government now is spending more in the field of educational research on parental education than on any other area of educational activity. 
Tonight I want simply to register a request with the Minister for Education that we should similarly take this business of parental education seriously. I have been impressed by the antenatal classes which are conducted in many parts of this country for prospective parents. But surely we should recognise the need to carry on these classes after the birth of a child and make the subject of them the problems which every parent encounters in raising a small child. Similarly we must acknowledge that many parents, and among them those most in need of assistance and advice, will never come within the reach of any formal system of classes, instruction or advice. We should recognise the potential for reaching those parents who will not come within that sphere through the television media. 
It is extraordinary how little use we have so far made of television in this country for education in any of its forms, but most particularly for education in the forms which are important to people who cannot otherwise be reached. I would like to see a close co-operation developed between the Children's Commission, the Schools Commission, the Department of Education, the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations so that a concerted effort can be made to bring parents advice on the child raising process. There is no want of experience overseas. There is no want of expenditure on research overseas. We should draw on that body of experience and research to devise programs which will meet the sort of problems which cripple the later education of so many of our children. This is not a task which is beyond the resources of this country, either financially, in terms of educational expertise or in terms of the resources of the television industry. This is an exciting field waiting to be opened educationally. It would have been a pity if the discussion of these estimates had gone by without some reference being made to a major new field- the field of parental education. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Four weeks ago the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  produced in this House a letter which had been stolen from the Department of the Treasury. Four weeks ago the Leader of the Opposition not only quoted from that letter at question time but also incorporated the letter itself in  Hansard.  Crime in this instance has had its appropriate reward because, as a result of that piece of unscrupulousness, in a relatively unimportant but nevertheless revealing matter we have become aware of the dinner which took place on 30 October last year. We have become aware that a full 1 2 months ago the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  had already carefully and cynically laid plans both for the removal of the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  and for overcoming the resistance of those principled members of the Liberal Party, and perhaps of the National Country Party of Australia, who they foresaw would object to a rejection of the Budget at this stage of 1975. We have become aware of these things because a person present at the time who, in his own words, disapproved of eavesdropping but could not avoid overhearing what he overheard, felt his inhibitions to be released by the actions of the Leader of the Opposition in bringing into the House this letter stolen from the Treasury, in quoting from this stolen document, and in incorporating in  Hansard  this stolen document. 
The dinner which I have mentioned and which is described in some detail elsewhere took place on 30 October last year, and at it, as I have said, plans were discussed in detail for the removal of the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  from the position of Leader of the Opposition- a removal, a deed, which did not take place, did not eventuate, until 27 November. At least, this move was not begun publicly until 27 November and was not consummated until 2 1 March this year. 
-Let me remind honourable members, including the honourable member for Riverina, who objects, that on 27 November when the first attempt was made to remove  Mr Snedden  the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said: 
I took no part in what occurred this morning in the Party room. I asked no one for support, nor would I do so. 
Yet that is in direct contradiction with the report of which we have all become aware this week. Similarly, although on 30 October last year the present Leader of the Opposition was concerting his plans with the honourable member for Corangamite for disposing of the then Leader of the Opposition, on 8 February this year he was prepared to say: 
Bill Snedden has my full support. I repeat, as I have said on numerous occasions, that I supported the Party room decision of last November and that I support the elected leader of the Liberal Party. 
I bring up this matter and ask the House how much credence can then be put in the statement made by the honourable member on 21 March after he had assumed the leadership. He said: 
I generally believe that if a government is elected to power in the Lower House and has the numbers and can maintain the numbers in the Lower House it is entitled to expect that it will govern for the 3-year term unless quite extraordinary events intervene. 
There is a great deal of explanation due in the light of the information which has become available for the first time this week. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs a question arising from public concern over the use of animals for the development and testing of commercial products. Will he take action to see that the use of animals for this purpose is kept to the minimum compatible with avoiding the use of human beings in testing programs? Will he draw up a code of requirements with a view to seeing that suffering is kept to a minimum? 
-Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of concern over the investigatory techniques used by police in the Northern Territory? Can he say what measures the Government has in mind to overcome the difficulties? Is he in favour of a royal commission to look into the subject? 
-This Bill marks the coming of age of the Department of Urban and Regional Development. It marks a point at which the Department has been able to take over the work of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority which, as we have been told, was established in the dying days of the McMahon Government, and reconstituted as the Cities Commission by the Whitlam Government. The Cities Commission represented an affirmation by the Whitlam Government of its commitment not only to the magnificent dream of a decentralised Australia but also to the proposition that it is not possible for Australians to enjoy acceptable standards of urban life without decentralisation. As the Cities Commission pointed out in its first report: 
If the cities of Australia continue to grow in their present way, the opportunity for the economic and social advancement of an increasing number of Australians will be severely curtailed. 
It is already apparent that sub-standard neighbourhoods are growing around the central cores of the major capital cities with many people living in conditions of poverty, poor housing, and a lack of social and recreational opportunities. 
Without positive Government intervention this urban decay will spread. 
Some of the developments taking place on the fringes of our cities provide, in certain respects, an environment that can be equally depressing and restricted. 
It is not only deprived minorities who are suffering from the problems and inadequacies of our cities. 
An increasing proportion of the middle and higher income earners are finding that as the metropolitan area expands, their economic and social opportunities are curtailed and the quality of their life and environmental surrounds is diminishing. 
It is an authentic tragedy that the House should be discussing this Bill when, for the first time since Federation, the whole idea of decentralisation and the whole notion of growth centre development are under challenge. Former leaders of the Liberal Party and former leaders of the Country Party always gave at least lip service to the idea of decentralisation even if over the 23 years of Liberal hegemony in this House nothing practical was ever done to give concrete form to decentralisation. The present Leader of the Liberal Party,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, said in his reply to the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  that a Liberal government would suspend the growth centre program through which this Government has been bringing new vitality to communities such as Albury- Wodonga and Orange-Bathurst.  (Quorum formed). 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  who is attempting to cut short the time available to me for this speech like me represents an urban electorate but unlike me he is apparently unable to appreciate the importance of decentralisation as a way of relieving all the pressures which are operating on our existing capital and regional centres. When I was interrupted by the honourable member for Griffith I was referring to the fact that the Leader of the Opposition- the Leader of the Liberal Partyacting without protest of any kind from the National Country Party has declared that a Liberal-National Country Party Government would suspend the growth centre program. I wonder how much careful consideration and planning was given to that proposal before it was inserted as a makeweight in the Leader's attempt to itemise his $ 1,000m further cut in Government spending. I wonder how much consideration was given to the impact that the suspension of the program will have upon contractors already operating in the Albury- Wodonga area. I wonder how much consideration was given to the impact it will have upon the planning staffs which are slowly, painfully and meticulously being built up in the Albury- Wodonga area. I wonder how much consideration was given to the fragile pattern of Federal-State co-operation on the Albury- Wodonga program. I wonder how much consideration was given to the aspirations of the Albury- Wodonga people themselves or at least the overwhelming majority of AlburyWodonga people who have welcomed the development of their city as a growth centre. 
It is not particularly to the obstructionism of the Leader of the Opposition in this matter that I want to address myself today, it is not to the regression that the Liberal and National Country Party is showing in recreating the patterns of behaviour and the attitudes that it took to urban and regional development prior to the late part of 1972 when it had its death bed repentance and established the National Urban and Regional Development Authority, but it is to the way that the Victorian Liberal Premier and the Victorian Government, are working in harmony with this running down of the growth centre program and with this sabotaging of decentralisation as a concept in this country. It is to the way in which the Liberal Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  has scrapped plans for a growth centre development in the Geelong area. Planning for Geelong was one of the great accomplishments fostered by the National Urban and Regional Development Authority and by the Cities Commission. It was a project which this Government was prepared to back and underwrite to the hilt. It was a project for which this Government earmarked very substantial funds in the last 2 Budgets. Yet it is a program for which legislation was introduced into the Victorian Parliament and never passed. It is a program for which the Victorian Premier has now thrown in the towel in the face of opposition from vested interests in the Geelong area. There can be no doubt, surveying the record, that what the Victorian Liberal Government has done in the matter of Geelong is to cave in to interests of a purely sectional character. There can be no doubt that what the Hamer Government has done is sell out the concept of growth centres which alone can give the idea of decentralisation practical form. 
Let me review the history of this aborted growth centre program as the National Urban and Regional Development Authority and subsequently the Cities Commission were involved in it. In 1967, in its report on disperse development, the Victorian Government recognised that Geelong had all the attributes of a growth area, so much so that in the report it was suggested that there was no need for the Victorian Government to take special action to ensure that the acceleration process took place. Three other centres in Victoria were singled out by the Victorian Government because Geelong was all ready to go- In 1969, the Geelong Regional Planning Authority was established to implement unified, integrated urban planning for the 9 Geelong municipalities. In 1972, the National Urban and Regional Development Authority singled out Geelong for an accelerated growth program. In 1973, meetings between the Victorian Government and the Australian Government led to an agreed plan for large scale urban growth in the Geelong area. Up to $lm has been committed to the Geelong planning process. In Geelong alone up to 20 major studies have been carried out in fields such as water supply, air pollution, transport and drainage. 
The Melbourne planning firm of Loder and Bayly has completed a comprehensive report on strategies which will bring Geelong a population of half a million people by the year 2000.  Major areas  of land have been frozen as a means of dampening down speculation and preventing premature, unco-ordinated development. All these great initiatives, taken at a cost of up to $3m in Australian money are now thrown into doubt by the about-face which has been executed by the Victorian Government. All these preparations seem likely to go for nothing because  Mr Hamer  and his Ministers are unable or unwilling to stand up to powerful landholding and land developing interests within the Liberal Party. All the Australians who have dreamed for years about a really effective decentralisation policy are to be let down because all that the Liberals are interested in contributing to decentralisation and to growth centre development is lip service. 
In the 1974-75 Budget, $20m was set aside for the Geelong growth centre. In October 1974, the Australian Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  the Victorian Minister for Planning,  Mr Hunt,  and the Victorian Minister for State Development,  Mr Byrne,  announced a joint Federal-State development program. Late last month, that announcement was repudiated publicly by  Mr Byrne. Mr Byrne  announced that the Geelong growth centre had been abandoned as the result of the Victorian Cabinet decision. 
It is no secret that this disastrously retrograde decision has been accepted by the Liberal Party at the instigation of a handful of powerful people, among its members. It is no secret that the ideal of decentralisation has been sold out in the interests of wealthy landholders and land developers. We know the names of the men concerned because they were all named in the Melbourne  Age of 21  September in an article headed appropriately enough: 'A victory for the manipulators- Hamer Government gives in to lobby groups'. Let me instance from the Melbourne  Age  representatives of 3 of the groups who have been involved. The Melbourne  Age  reports: 
One of these landowners is  Mr Robert  Wood Pettit, the current  president  of Barrabool Shire Council. He has extensive holdings in the Geelong area which would be affected by the growth centre plan. 

 Mr Pettit has a 273 acre family farm near Torquay which . . . would be declared a rural zone, with a minimum 200-acre subdivision limit. 
More importantly, Waurnvale Development Pry Ltd- a company of which  Mr Pettit  is a director and shareholderhas acquired areas of development land in the area which would be affected by the scheme. 
One of the areas is 226 acres of prime development land on the Prince's Highway west of Geelong which the company bought about 2 years ago for $ 1 .4 million. 
About half this land is 'frozen' because it is in a 'development area' and could be acquired if the Government went ahead with the growth-centre scheme. 

 Mr Pettit has been a leading opponent of the growthcentre scheme, although of course he makes it clear that his opposition is based on real objections rather than selfinterest. For example, last December he moved this motion at Barrabool Council: 
This council objects strongly to the proposed legislation whereby a large area of Western District land is to be acquired, thus depriving its owners of their livelihood and family inheritance, when the acquisition figure appears to be a figure which would not enable those ratepayers to continue, as primary producers, to produce much-needed foodstuffs. 
Let me give another example. The Melbourne Age reported: 
Down the road from the McCanns is a somewhat smaller area of land- IS acres- owned by a company called Ceres Lookout Estate Pry Ltd. 
Latest Corporate Affairs Commission records show that the Liberal (MLA) for Beliarine  (Mr Aurel Smith)  and his family have a substantial interest in the company. 
The land was bought for $26,000 in 1964, and is in the Wandana Heights area where residents have been seeking residential rezoning for several years. A rough calculation shows that if the Ceres Lookout Estate was subdivided, the land could be worth $ 1 20,000 after paying for servicing. 
However, the land is currently zoned rural, and if the Loder and Bayly strategy plan was adopted it would be part of a buffer zone: either acquired for parkland, or having its rural zoning frozen. 
I do not want to go through the whole of this article. The article is exhaustive. It makes clear the influences which were brought to bear in order to bring the Geelong centre to nothing. 
This abortion of the Geelong growth centre program is but one of a long series of instances in which there has been collaboration between Victorian Government authorities and landdeveloping interests. It goes back over a period of years. I refer to instances like the Rowville land development scandal and the Little Desert project in Victoria. Again and again the pattern of co-operation between land-developing interests and Victorian Government authorities taken either in the interests of repaying substantial profits for the interests concerned or in the interests of holding back progress, as has happened over the Geelong growth centre, re-occurs again and again. This is the other side of the coin from the value that we all recognise as flowing from local participation, local involvement in the planning process, and local decision-making. This is what occurs when there is an inadequate assertion of the national interest and an inadequate assertion of the State interest in the process of urban and regional development. 
We should not close our eyes to the costs which are incurred both nationally and at a State level when urban and regional development is allowed to go by default as was the case in the 23 years between the return of the Liberal Party to power at the end of 1949 and its fall from power at the end of 1972. We would not now be faced with such massive bills for the installation of services as basic as sewerage, for the upgrading of the water supply in a city such as Adelaide and for catching up on the backlog of urban roads and urban public transport. We would not be faced with these massive backlogs if we had earlier recognised the unavoidable costs that are incurred as a community when urban and regional development is allowed to go by default to men of the stamp of those whose records I have quoted from the Melbourne  Age  this afternoon. When we allow these aspects to go by default, when we let handsome profits be reaped by private individuals involved in the development process, the whole community bears the cost and ultimately that cost is sheeted home to the taxpayer. 
This Government came to office in 1972 committed to the proposition that for the first time since 1949 the interests of urban and regional development should be given a high priority at the national level- that the work which was begun by the Department of Post-war Reconstruction under  Mr John  Dedman, the work of regionalisation that was begun prior to 1949, should again be taken up. Very much indeed has been achieved in these past 3 years. 
As I said at the outset of my remarks this Bill, the Cities Commission (Repeal) Bill, marks in a very real way the coming of age of the Department of Urban and Regional Development. It marks the point in the development of that Department where it has been able to take on the functions which were pioneered to its credit by the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. This is not a duplication. This is a rationalisation- an incorporation in one body- of the services, the visions, the plans and the personnel needed to make urban and regional development in this country an ongoing process systematized by planning and informed by vision. 
-The question which I endeavoured to ask the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  while he was addressing the Committee was what  Senator Greenwood  meant by his remarks. We have just heard from the honourable member a very elaborate defence of the Opposition's intentions in regard to this Bill and an argument purporting to establish that the Opposition is sincere in its attempt to have a committee established to investigate all the implications of the Bill. It would be easier for the Committee to take this suggestion on the part of the honourable member seriously if  Senator Greenwood,  the principal Opposition spokesman on these matters, and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  himself, were not so firmly on the record as expressing adamant opposition not only to the Bill itself but to the whole concept of legal aid at the Federal level. 
So I rise at this point simply to press my question on the honourable gentleman and to ask him whether before the vote is taken on this clause he will not explain to the Committee what was the meaning of  Senator Greenwood's  comments which have figured so prominently in the debate already. 
-The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  made the point that the greatest enemy of social security benefits is inflation. I think it is necessary to view that statement with which every member of this House would concur in the context of the improvements in social security benefits which have been achieved over the last 3 years and which are being taken further in the legislation now before the House. It is necessary to recall that in December 1972 when this Government came to office the pension for aged, widowed, invalid and unemployed Australians was $20 a week for the first 3 categories, and even less in the case of the unemployed, and that at that stage a pension of $20 a week was the equivalent of 20 per cent of average weekly earnings. Today we have a situation in which the pension is $36 or 24 per cent of average weekly earnings, and when the legislation currently before the House is passed, if indeed it is passed in these uncertain times, the pension will be $38.75 or 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. So despite all the pressures which have been operating on this Government, this Government has achieved within 3 years the objective which it set out to achieve and which it announced in the Prime Minister's policy speech in December 1 972. 
It is necessary to go on a bit further than that. In December 1972 when the present Government came to office social security benefits, the age pension most notably, were subject to a very rigorous means test indeed. Today the age pension is means test free for all Australians 70 years of age and over and before very long it will be means test free for all Australians 69 years of age and over, but that is not by any means the limit of what has been achieved in the interests of Australians who through no fault of their own find themselves incapacitated or their way of earning curtailed or who are living in retirement. 
Medibank too has been a very significant contribution to the well-being of these people. In December 1972 under the previous health insurance scheme pensioners were entitled to attend the general practitioner of their choice for medical consultation but if they needed specialist attention, as inevitably is most frequently the case among pensioners in comparison with other sections of the community, they were obliged to go to a public hospital to get that attention and they were obliged to accept the services of the specialist they found working in that public hospital. Today of course a pensioner enjoys the same rights as far as medical treatment is concerned as do other sections of the community. That is, he can still go to the general practitioner of his choice as was the case under the old arrangements. That freedom of choice has been enlarged to allow him to choose his own specialist medical adviser and to receive the services of that specialist medical adviser in his own consulting rooms. The situation in which pensioners living in the outer suburbs of the various State capital cities, and even more so the pensioners who found themselves living in rural districts, found themselves totally transformed by these new arrangements. 
Secondly, as far as Medibank is concerned, in December 1972 and in all the years preceding it pensioners were limited in their entitlement to hospital care to the public wards of public hospitals and when for any reason they were obliged to receive hospital care in intermediate or private accommodation the Government made no contribution whatsoever towards the cost of that care. Now, of course, under Medibank pensioners have the same entitlement to hospital care- that is, they receive the same hospital benefit irrespective of whether they have standard ward care, intermediate ward care or private ward care- as other sections of the community. If they want to insure themselves - 
-The tirade of criticism of Government economic policy which we heard a few moments ago from the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  would have been a good deal more credible if it has not been delivered in the week of presentation of the report of the Committee to Advise on Policies for Manufacturing, chaired by  Mr Jackson,  because that report sets out meticulously for this Parliament and for this country the real background against which the current decline in activity in manufacturing industry has taken place. I can do no better than quote from the second page of the report the following words: 
The stagnation of fixed investment in constant prices is not new; it  is  of ten years standing. Manufacturing has tried to maintain earnings by running down its capital stock. Much of the equipment in factories, consequently is old, inefficient and overdue for replacement; desirable technical innovations have been delayed; and physical conditions for the work force leave much to be desired. For ten years the rate of growth in labour productivity of Australian manufacturing has been far below that achieved in Japan, France and Germany, and marginally below Britain and Canada. 
Who would have thought, listening to the remarks of the honourable member for Berowra that that was the situation described less than a week ago by an expert committee on manufacturing industry set up under the auspices of this Government. 
The honourable member for Berowra went through a number of aspects of current and recently past economic management which he said should be a source of concern to the Parliament, and so they should. But it was extraordinary that the honourable member made no reference in his speech to the great economic question which is exercising the minds of all Australians, and that is the effect of the delaying of the passage of the Budget on the economic life of this country. Most people who have looked at this question have concluded with considerable alarm that the effects of the delay in the passage of the Budget will be large-scale and enduring. Already many sectors of industry are becoming aware of the impact, and this, of course, is nowhere more apparent than in the construction industry. Let me quote the figures of arrears as they will accumulate week by week in the period immediately ahead of us. By the week ending 7 November, the current week, the accumulated arrears will be $1.5m; by 14 November, $3m; by 21 November, $4. 75m; by 28 November, Slim; by 5 December, $15m; by 12 December, $ 19m; by 19 December, $25m; by 26 December, $30m; by 2 January, $32m; and by 9 January, $35m. These are the dimensions of the interruption of cash flow in the construction industry on the part of major contractors which are following in the wake of the delay of passage of the Budget. To get a true perspective of what is going on, to take account of the impact not only on major contractors but also on sub-contractors, it is necessary to double those figures. Of course it is not primary economic impact alone that we are obliged to take into account; it is the impact on all the suppliers who work in conjunction with the construction industry, and it is the diminished purchasing power of the labour force of that industry. So, as ripples in a pool after a stone has been thrown in, that effect is spreading day by day, week by week and ultimately month by month to cover the whole gamut of economic activity in the country. It is this economic problem overwhelmingly which is preoccupying Australians at present. 
I wanted to say something in the course of this debate about the prospect that the Jackson report holds out for Australia. There are no more remarkable debates in this House than those in which we hear the arch-protectionist from Berowra followed closely by the arch-free-trader from Wakefield. It is a great pity that on this occasion the honourable member for Wakefield's own provocations deprived the House of the opportunity to get the full benefit of the contrast between his remarks and those we had already heard from the honourable member for Berowra. The Jackson Committee report steers a path between those 2 extremes. The Committee has rightly recognised in its report that Australian industry cannot carry on indefinitely with the current high levels of protection which it enjoys, historically justified though those levels of protection may have been. Equally the Committee has recognised that we cannot have too sudden shifts in the level of protection which industry enjoys if we are to have a healthy industrial climate in which, as the report points out, existing industries become the building blocks for the industries of the future. 
The report rightly makes the point that we are not going to get proper acceptance of necessary changes in the structure of protection in Australia unless better methods of consultation and cooperation are devised. That is, it is simply not good enough for us to persist as we have in the past with the blunt, overnight, and even dramatic implementation of recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission reached, as they have been, simply on the basis of a hearing process. The establishment of the Industries Assistance Commission- the consolidation of the old Tariff Board and the extension of its activities to take in primary industry as well as secondary industry- has been a very great step forward indeed. Equally the practice pursued by this Government - and by none of its predecessors- of tabling in this Parliament or otherwise publishing abroad reports of the Industries Assistance Commission in their entirety is another step forward; a significant contribution towards the rationality of tariff debate in this country. 
It is now time though for us to take another step forward and see that the principal parties whose interests are involved in the tariff question all get an opportunity of making their voices heard on a constructive, consultative basis. I believe that it is in that respect that the Jackson Committee report takes us further along the road to a sensible set of economic arrangements. The Jackson Committee is meticulous in the recommendations it makes for better consultative procedures in which the trade union movement as well as manufacturers themselves, governments and the consumer interest can all have a proper say. It would be very much my hope, as I believe it would be the hope of other honourable members on this side of the House, to see those proposals in particular pass very rapidly from the Green Paper stage to the White Paper stage so that we can see them embodied in legislation and put into practice at an early date. It would be unthinkable if the work which the Jackson Committee has put into this subject over the last 12 months should be lost to the country in the same way that the work done on an earlier occasion by the Vernon Committee was lost. How much better off we would now be if  Sir Robert  Menzies had not been so determined to pigeon-hole all the magnificent recommendations of the Vernon Committee. How much better off we would be economically, how many of the tribulations of the recent past would we have avoided if effect had been given to at least some of the recommendations of the Vernon Committee? The Australian experience over the Vernon Committee on economic matters should be a warning to us in the approach that we take to the work done by the Jackson Committee on this occasion. 
It is not to the question of tariffs alone or of consultation alone to which the Jackson Committee has addressed itself. The Jackson Committee has also had some very important things to say about the weaknesses of middle management in Australia. Of course, it has related that question of the weakness of middle management in Australia to the equally pressing matter of the quality of union leadership in Australia. The Committee rightly recognises the work that was done by the former Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, in establishing the trade union training college. For many years in this country we have had people who were prepared to throw up their hands and bemoan the quality of union leadership. But  Mr Clyde  Cameron was the first Minister for Labor and Immigration that this country has had who was prepared to take the practical step of setting up the trade union training college. 
-The honourable member for Riverina, who is noted for the negativism of his views in this House, is amused by the existence of the trade union training college. The honourable member has been an ornament of a number of military training institutions in the course of his career and he of all the members of this House should be able to recognise the importance of training on a rather wider basis than the square-bashing which one sometimes feels has impaired the honourable member's intellect. But the then Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, took an important step when he set up the trade union training college. 
We should ask ourselves now, in connection with training for management, why it is that at the senior level this training has been taken, in the business schools of the United States. Why is it that so few of the top management people in Australia, much less the middle management people in Australia, have found it satisfactory to avail themselves of the schools of business studies at universities such as the University of Melbourne? There is an important question to be resolved here as to why the prestige of the American schools of business studies is so much greater than the prestige of the Australian schools of business studies, and has uniformly exercised its strong attraction for the future managers of Australian industry. There is a question to be asked about how much the importing into this country of American philosophies of management and, more important still, of American social and cultural assumptions has distorted the pattern of development of management in Australia. The Jackson Committee rightly brings that subject to the fore. 
If we can resolve for ourselves the question of how to provide suitable training for trade union leaders in this country it should not be beyond our minds to do as much for management. It cannot be said that this is something properly to be left to the universities in isolation. It is a matter on which there should be a national policy. It is a matter towards which some Ministers in the previous Liberal-Country Party Government, to their credit, were groping their way in the last months of office of that Government. It is a matter on which initiatives from the present government are now long overdue. Again, this House should want to see the proposals put forward for training on both the employer and employee sides by the Jackson Committee carried quickly beyond the Green Paper stage to the White Paper stage and then into legislation. 
The legislation before this House at the present time deals with a matter fundamental to the Australian economic structure. The question of the tariff is one which has bedevilled economic discussion in this country for a great number of years. It has spawned ideological divisions and differences which cut across the normal lines of party debate and controversy in this country as is regularly exemplified by the contributions made to debate by the honourable member for Berowra and the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  (  Quorum formed)  I was making the point, when I was interrupted by the honourable member for Wakefield who seems to have lost his concern for the discussion that the tariff debate in Australia has been one of peculiar sterility and that it has led us at last into a notable blind alley. I believe it is the great contribution of the Jackson committee to have pointed the way out of that blind alley. I believe that in years to come we will see this report as a seminal contribution to economic debate in this country and will thank the members of that Committee for the work they have done. 
-It does the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  no credit that he should single out this small group of disadvantaged Aboriginal Australians for his patronising remarks in this debate. The honourable member for Griffith is well aware that the need to which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  responded when he put up the very modest sums for the purchase of the property to which the honourable member for Griffith has referred was the need of homeless people. It is true that 16 of those homeless people now have a roof over their heads as a result of the action that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs was able to take. It is equally true that many Aboriginal people in the city of Brisbane, as in other communities throughout Australia, are still unhoused or illhoused. 
The elaborate argument that the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  spun out in the House this afternoon would have been a good deal more credible if honourable members had not been vividly aware of the time which has elapsed since the question of land rights was first raised. The honourable member elaborated his argument at extraordinary length, but honourable members all recalled while he was speaking the stonewall resistance put up over a period of years to the land rights claims of the Gurindji by successive Country Party Ministers. Most honourable members would have been aware that behind the honourable member's request for time to study this legislation- allegedly in the interests of securing better Bills- was a plea for time to reconcile the differences which have arisen over this question of land rights between the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. 
Liberals, not to their credit but less to their discredit than might be the case, are not themselves very interested in this question of Aboriginal affairs. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who is sleeping on the front bench, has been an honourable exception to that rule, but he is uncharacteristic of the Party from which he springs. On the contrary though National Country Party members have always taken a very lively interest in Aboriginal affairs and especially in the land rights issue. Of course the National Country Party speaks in this place precisely for those groups in our society who see themselves as threatened by land rights becoming available to Aborigines. This has been brought out time and time again. The long fight of the Gurindji at Wave Hill was overwhelmingly a fight against Country Party resistance, a fight against Country Party intransigence, and that battle still goes on. 
This legislation is being delayed. We are witnessing this last ditch attempt on the part of the honourable member for Wentworth to have the whole affair referred to yet another committee because the Country Party lives in hope that the matter of land rights for Aborigines, like the matter of electoral reform and one vote one value, can be staved off in the hope of an electoral miracle which will somehow make these issues dead letters. These are not matters of controversy. These are not matters of dispute. They are matters that have entered into the wisdom of the community. They are matters generally known to people who take an interest in Aboriginal affairs. Why otherwise could it have been that 8 long years had to go by before a small group of Aborigines, possessed of a fierce pride and an unusual measure of determination, could achieve title to their land at Wave Hill, title to land which was traditionally associated with the Gurindji tribe? Was this coincidence? Was this fortuitous? Was this because of unusual legal complexities? No. It was because of the determination of the land holders in the area whose interests are spoken for in this place by the Country Party to see that the issue of land rights was killed stone dead at its inception. 
Unlike the honourable member for Kennedy who interjects I have been to Wave Hill and talked to the people there. I know the attitude taken by both sides to the controversy. I have heard the views put by the people at Wave Hill and I have heard the views put by their persecutors with whom the honourable member for Kennedy identifies. 
-The honourable member for the Northern Territory interjects and asks an extraordinary question. He asks why the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory have a record of voting for Country Party candidates in the Northern Territory. This opens up a very interesting area of speculation indeed. It is one to which I think the House could fruitfully address itself. It is undoubtedly true that Aborigines show a unanimity in their voting behaviour in some settlements and on some missions which cannot be accounted for by any of the conventional rules of political science. I suggest that in the stillness of the night the honourable member for the Northern Territory should examine his own conscience in this matter and ask how those votes are rolled up, ask . under what conditions ballot papers are filled in on many of the missions and settlements which give the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  his majority. He should ask himself under what sort of tutelage the franchise is exercised in many of these places. He should ask himself what is the character of many of the people who preside over the ballot boxes in his constituency.' If the honourable member for the Northern Territory will answer those questions honestly he will acknowledge the deep deficiency of democracy in the Northern Territory up to this point and the very great need for reform of the electoral procedures of the Northern Territory if the real aspirations of the Aboriginal people are ever to achieve proper political expression. The honourable member for the Northern Territory knows that what I have said is true. 
When the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  and the honourable member for the Northern Territory interrupted me, I was addressing myself to this question of land rights. I was anxious to make the point that it is important to distinguish in this question of land rights between those Aboriginal communities which have retained a sense of identity, which have retained a sense of purpose and which have forward looking aspirations of their own as is the case preeminently with the Gurindji, and those Aboriginal communities, such as the people of Lake Tyers in my own State, who have none of these attributes. The debate about land rights is overwhelming- debate about the restoration of the sense of identity, about the restoration of a sense of self-respect to the Aboriginal people. If it is to be effective, there must be some sensitive monitoring of the circumstances in which transfer of land rights is encompassed. 
We have had a most unfortunate experience in my own State where, I believe, the Victorian Government would not have behaved differently in the matter of Lake Tyers if it had been the Government's intention to discredit the whole notion of land rights from the outset. At Lake Tyers, a valuable property hitherto previously used as an Aboriginal reserve, was handed over to a group of Aborigines, broken in health, broken in spirit and deprived of self-respect, who were unable to take advantage of what had been given to them. More than having this great asset, this property turned over to them overnight, as it were, these people were left purposely to sink or swim from resources which in fact they did not possess. These were the circumstances in which the first transfer of land rights took place in Australia. We should all be prepared to learn lessons from what has followed in the case of Lake Tyers where the property has gone steadily downhill, where the quality of the community has undergone a steady deterioration and where the people themselves have become increasingly discouraged and demoralised. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
When the debate on the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill, the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill and the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill was interrupted yesterday I was making the point to the House that the proposal from the Opposition for a delay in the passage of these Bills should not be countenanced. I want to develop that theme further this morning. The time already taken in investigation of these proposals and particularly in investigation of the proposal of land rights for Aborigines has been  very great, and there can be no question that the inquiry into land rights carried out by  Mr Justice  Woodward was one of the most thorough and searching inquiries which has been seen in this country in recent years, yet the Opposition is anxious to see this legislation referred for yet another inquiry. It is transparently clear that the motivation behind the suggestion for a referral to the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs is the disagreement which has developed between the Liberal Party and the National Country Party of Australia on the issue. As I said yesterday, the Liberal Party itself has very little interest in the subject of Aboriginal affairs. As long as Aboriginal advancement does not represent any very large expenditure on the part of the Treasury, as long as the needs of the Aboriginal people do not become a very substantial burden on the corporations which are principally represented by Liberal members in this House, the Liberal Party is quite prepared to see the cause of reform creep forward. In this it is very different from its Opposition partner, the National Country Party, which is determined at all costs to stand in the way of progress of the Aboriginal people and to maintain the Aboriginal people of Australia in the state of serfdom which has so long benefited the pastoralists that the Country Party represents in this House. That is the motivation of the suggestion which is put forward by the Opposition for a referral of this legislation for yet further inquiry. 
We in this House well know that the Aboriginal people of Australia have one of the most appalling rates of infant mortality in the world. Who is very largely responsible for that fact? It is the pastoralists on whose properties the overwhelming number of Aborigines have lived, the pastoralists who have so overwhelmingly ignored the proper provision of medical care on their properties. We know that the Aboriginal people of Australia have one of the most appalling rates of malnutrition in the world. Where does the responsibility for that fact lie? It lies with the diet that has been provided by the pastoralists of the Northern Territory. 
We know that the Aboriginal people of Australia have been one of the most appalling ill-housed people in the world. I wonder whether the honourable member for Riverina, who interjects and who is red faced at what I say, has ever inspected the state of housing at places like Wave Hill. 
