I have a question that I think I should ask you,  Mr President.  Is it a fact that in the staff refreshment rooms yesterday a number of female employees from the Hansard staff were refused service because the only vacant tables had signs upon them stating Reserved for Attendants'? Is it true that these tables remained vacant for a lengthy period while the Hansard employees waited to have their lunch? Did the Hansard employees in fact end up having no lunch at all because these tables were reserved? Can immediate action be taken to prevent a recurrence of this unfair situation? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Have there been any recent deaths of naval ratings while confined in Her Majesty's naval training establishment 'Leeuwin' in Western Australia or any other similar establishment in Western Australia. 
If there have been any deaths, were they suicides. 
If the answer to question (1) is in the affirmative, what was the age of the ratings, and was there any inquiry into the deaths by way of court of inquiry. 
Will the Minister make any transcripts and findings of any inquiries available to the Senate. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. When can we expect a Government statement from the Minister condemning the wholesale massacres of innocent men, women and children by the Americans in Vietnam, reports of which have been published in the Press over the last 6 months? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the Government make a statement condemning wholesale massacres of innocent men, women and children in Vietnam by the Americans, as alleged in newspaper reports over the last six months; if so, when. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. Last week we were discussing in this chamber a law and order Bill. During the course of the discussion of that Bill I listened to  Senator McManus  when he made his contribution to the debate. On Friday morning, although I was not here, I heard over the radio the statement that  Senator McManus  made. He said that he had been misrepresented, and it is about that matter that I wish to make my personal explanation today. I take this opportunity to set the record straight. 
It is true that last Wednesday I said to my colleague,  Senator Cavanagh,  in the course of the discussion on the law and order Bill, which  Senator McManus  supported, as I mentioned before, that some people changed their minds on various subjects and I told  Senator Cavanagh  of the trouble in Melbourne in 1919 when the Melbourne City Council refused the organisers of the St Patrick's Day procession the right to do as they had done for many years, that is, to march up Bourke Street on the Saturday closest to March 17th. No doubt, as  Senator McManus  has stated, the trouble in Ireland had something to do with the refusal of the Melbourne City Council to grant permission for this march. I and many others thought the banning of the march was a grave injustice. At that time I was in a different position to  Senator McManus.  He stated in his explanation that he was in short pants. I was in a very different position. I had not long returned to Australia after spending 3 years with the Australian Imperial Force in Egypt and France fighting for the right to demonstrate peacefully - I stress peacefully - against any suppression of our democratic way of life. 
Everyone was accustomed to the St Patrick's Day march which was always carried out in an orderly fashion. Along with other returned soldiers, some Catholics, some Protestants and others with no religion, I was invited to march in the procession, and we decided, whether or not the city council granted permission, that we would march in protest against a vicious secretarian local government by-law which would have victimised a large number of people and forever destroyed the St Patrick's Day procession. I was just as proud then to demonstrate against a bad law as I was to march in last year's moratorium peaceful demonstration against another bad law. 
It was quite peaceful. I do not believe in anything that is not peaceful. 
People like the honourable senator probably caused what happened in Adelaide. The St Patrick's Day Procession Committee applied to the Melbourne City Council for permission to hold a march on the Saturday afternoon nearest to St Patrick's Day in 1919. The application was refused. The council subsequently advised the committee a few days before the march was to take place that permission would be granted on condition that the Union Jack must be carried at the head of the procession. This condition was accepted by the committee. I think I might mention here that the organisers of the procession had decided to have the march even if the city council had persisted with its refusal. I wonder what attitude  Senator McManus  would have adopted had permission not been granted. It was not easy to comply with the condition laid down by the Melbourne City Council and to get a flag carrier to carry the flag. It was not until the march was about to commence that a poor old derelict who had been hired lo carry the Union Jack took his place at the head of the procession. Before the march had proceeded more than a dozen yards this derelict was assaulted by 2 young Irishmen who were subsequently arrested and fined, but not before they had dragged the Union Jack to the ground, poured petrol or kerosene on it and set it alight. The march was resumed and proceeded up Bourke Street without the Union Jack, and that made it an unlawful procession. The Irish Pipe Band led the march, and after the band came the open motor car in which  Dr Mannix  and other church dignitaries travelled. Large numbers of people, probably thousands, marched in that illegal procession. One of them was  Senator McManus.  Many of the marchers roared with laughter when they were told of the scuffle and the burning of the Union Jack. I wonder whether it could be possible that  Senator McManus,  the great anti-Labor and law and order man today, also roared with laughter when the Union Jack was burned. 
He was in it, but so was I. To complete the story, the Melbourne City Council prosecuted the organisers of the procession because they had failed to honour their obligation to see that the Union Jack was carried respectfully from the start of the march to the finish. The City Council lost the case.  Dr Mannix  again headed the procession the next year, but this time with an escort of 14 Victoria Cross winners on white horses, while 10,000 World War I veterans of all religions marched behind the car in which he travelled. The 2 young Irishmen who burned the flag were James Butler and Patrick Riordan. Butler is dead and Riordan is probably dead. Most of their relatives today could be strong supporters of the law and order party, the bitter reactionary Australian Democratic Labor Party. I would like to have it recorded in Hansard that I am just as proud today as 1 was in 1919 that I took part in that march. 
