I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: What is the quantity of wool at present stockpiled by the Australian Wool Commission? What percentage of the Australian wool clip sold since Nos-ember 1970 does this represent? What procedure does the Commission intend to adopt to sell this accumulated stock? In what bale quantities will it be sold? Will sales be guaranteed as to type and quality by the Commission? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, lt concerns the proposed amalgamation of the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society and the Sheet Metal Workers  Union.  ls the Government fully informed as to the purpose of the amalgamation of these 3 unions? What will be the total membership of the amalgamated union? What will be the total income? What will be the total amount of the political fund? How many members of the Communist Party or parties belong to the national staffs of these 3 unions, including the Federal office and the State offices, and what are their names? What percentage of membership of the 3 unions voted in the recent ballot dealing with amalgamation? Who counted the ballot? Was the ballot counted by persons actually supporting one side or by persons representing both sides? 
 I move: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until tomorrow at 10.55 a.m., unless otherwise ordered. 
I do so for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency, namely. 
The grave deterioration as a result of inflation in the economic position of senior citizens dependent on income from superannuation schemes or from the investment of savings accumulated by thrift and sacrifice during their working lives, and the need for urgent appropriate action to relieve their financial situation. 
The urgent need for an immediate adjustment of superannuation payments to former Commonwealth employees in accordance with the 'Notional Salary Adjustment Scheme' and for incorporation in the Superannuation Act of provision for regular review of the level of payments. 
I feel that the Senate will agree that there is an urgent need for appropriate action to relieve the present financial situation of senior citizens who sought in earlier years to ensure their future by wise investment, insurance and thrift. I believe also that the Senate will agree that there is need for action to relieve the financial situation of those who have been deprived by inflation of the benefit of superannuation for which they have paid as Government employees. Inflation is a major source of our current social and economic problems. At present it bears hardest on those Australians who are dependent on social services, pensions and savings which have been invested in fixed income securities. Inflation is a cause of industrial unrest. Wage and salary earners of all classes and self-employed people also make strong claims for extra income to compensate for inflation. In the process they put in bids to anticipate future inflation, all of which aggravates the problem. Companies too are not to be left behind. The people who tend to get left behind are the people with least political strength. These are pensioners and people living on past savings which have not been invested in an inflation proof manner. 
One of the objectives of this urgency motion is to impress upon the Government the need for a thorough survey of the whole complex area of private superannuation and retirement funds. The Government adheres to the view that the private schemes must remain and that social services provided from general revenues must not bear the whole burden of providing for income in retirement. Yet the workings of this complex private system have never been the subject of a thorough survey or critical examination. Let me briefly outline the facts as far as they can be ascertained from obsolete and incomplete statistics. Almost 1 million superannuation policies ure held by life insurance companies. If private pension funds are to be included, these policies earn about $500m a year and have an outgoing of more than $200m a year. 
Various government instrumentalities provide private schemes for their employees, and the number of these is almost as large as those in the private sector. They comprise 600,000 contributors, 120,000 pensioners, with an income of $3 50m a year and outgoings of some $170m a year. There is also an immense number of life assurance policies, many of which are used as retirement funds. They are being cashed in after retirement or when savings are needed. This huge private social service system is even bigger than the public or government run social service system of the Commonwealth. Yet it is extremely difficult to obtain detailed data on this system since it is composed of a multiplicity of small funds and countless policies which are differently administered. What we do know is that the system has never been the subject of a thorough review. lt is possible to state some general defects. The contributors to these funds have great difficulty in obtaining full protection against inflation. Many funds invest in real property such as office buildings or houses which appreciate in value with inflation. Equity shares have been a major object of investment of contributors funds. 
But two constraints on the funds hamper the efforts of management to make them inflation proof. The first is the myth which, from the point of view of the Government is highly desirable, that there is something solid about fixed interest debentures or loan investments. This creates some psychological pressure on the investors to put money into fixed interest securities, the value of which is seriously eroded by inflation. 
The second constraint is even more serious. 1 refer to the legislation known as the 30-20 legislation which provides that all private insurance funds must hold at least 30 per cent of their funds in public authority securities and 20 per cent in government securities. The measure was introduced in something of a panic in the boom of 1960. It is legislation of a most dubious nature. After some pressure was applied it evidently was changed from a system of complete compulsion to a' system of taxation penalties for non-compliance with these percentage provisions. But the effect is virtually the same as compulsion. The 30-20 provision ensures that the value of superannuation and retirement funds is eroded because government securities naturally erode in value. They are all investments of the fixed interest loan type. This measure prevents fund managers from investing in inflationary-proof investments such as houses, properties or equities, lt means that at least ;i portion of the superannuation and pension funds must be lost to inflation. 
I turn my attention now to one of the areas of Australian economic life which is in the greatest need of scrutiny and attention. Perhaps as a hangover from the days of Marxist analyses, many people still think of our community as divided between workers and capitalists or between wage earners and profit earners, to use less ideological but otherwise similar terms. If is we and they. Our problems are problems of social services, wages and prices. The affairs of companies, of banking and of the stock exchange are their problems. This is a dangerously unreal distinction. The efficiency and able management of Australian business affect every Australian. Profits of companies these days are no longer going to some tiny rich minority, as the latter day Marxists and trade union opportunists would have us believe. Fifty per cent of all profits go to the Commonwealth Treasury, as company taxation, foi a start. Therefore, profits of Australian companies provide a major source of the revenues needed to finance social services, defence, rural reconstruction, education and health services. A reduction in the profitability of Australian business is therefore directly reflected in the reduction of the finance available to Australian governments for their various public service activities. 
The biggest receivers of dividends in Australia are various life assurance and superannuation funds. No individual or groups of individuals come near the small superannuation funds as recipients of company dividends. The real proprietors of the superannuation funds and life assurance companies are hundreds of thousands of Australians of moderate and modest means, including many government public servants, who are saving. Some are saving to build a house, others for their family, most for their old age and retirement. If inflation cuts into company profits, if industrial strife disrupts commercial life, if companies are managed badly or if their funds are used incompetently or corruptly and if the stock market is in chaos, it is these hundreds of thousands of people who suffer, not some undeserving collection of highly wealthy people. Inflation distorts the direction in which small people's savings go. Inflation erodes the value of money and makes investment on fixed interest loans progressively more ruinous. The sum of S 1,000 invested now is reduced in value to $500 return on investment in 10 years if inflation continues at present rates. This is not investment at all but a sure way of losing money. 
So the saving is directed away from prudent investment towards areas of risk and speculation - land, housing and shares. Noone should tell the Australian small shareholder of any security attaching to socalled blue chip stocks such as BHP, Mount Isa, Coles, CRA, Broken Hill South, Western Mining Corporation and Woolworths. All these stocks have plummeted in recent months to a fraction of their former value and their investment yields are pretty low. Inflation makes complete nonsense of any inclination the small investor may have to put his money into gilt edged government or semi-government securities. They are gilt-edged guarantees of real capital loss.  La  addition, the Government, by operating a variable interest rate policy, can cause the holders of the so-called gilt-edged securities to suffer considerable capital loss. For instance, over the past 2 years the Commonwealth increased the interest yield of securities from  6  per cent to  8  per cent. This effectively deprived holders of bonds of 25 per cent of the value of their investment if, for various reasons, they were forced to realise their investment on the market. In a similar matter the small savers and investors are badly hit when the stock exchanges are manipulated and misused for the benefit of a few big brokers and wealthy investors. The Senate, to its credit, is taking quite a leading role in examining this problem. I hope that this will be followed by appropriate action. 
It is obvious that at present intolerable rackets are going on which must be ended. Federal and State governments for far too long have put off the business of implementing effective company law arid exercising the proper supervision' of stock exchanges which must be institutions operated for the benefit of the many, not manipulated as private clubs to be turned on and off at the whim of the few. To call for appropriate action to combat the effects of inflation on persons dependent on superannuation and on investment of savings invites the question: What action would be appropriate? As I see it. action to compensate those on fixed incomes for the increasing cost of living can be taken at 2 levels, either  (1)  benefits can be adjusted regularly, preferably automatically in line with -the movements in the cost of living, shown per medium of a consumer price index. This would ensure that the purchasing power, that is, the real value of benefits, did not decline over time, or (2), benefits can be tied to the average weekly earnings. This represents a more generous alternative. It would ensure that the purchasing power of benefits did not fall relative to incomes currently earned. Such a system implies that retired pensioners share in the benefits of increasing productivity. 
The action necessary to compensate for inflation is clear cut. But how to finance the action is a more difficult problem. It is most unlikely that the problem can be overcome by reliance on private superannuation or savings schemes. The Democratic Labor Party holds that the most satisfactory solution is to be found in a national superannuation scheme whereby the majority currently employed ensure the welfare of those in retirement. There are several difficulties associated with private schemes. Firstly, any investment for retirement must be secure, that is, almost riskless, and therefore the interest paid will be relatively low. Secondly, most people do not have sufficient expertise to manage their own investments, so they must rely on institutions such as insurance companies. Thirdly, an ideal investment to hedge against inflation is real estate, but most people do not have sufficient capital or expertise to seek such opportunities. 
Now let me turn to the urgent need for the immediate adjustment of the superannuation pensions of former Commonwealth employees. In 1961 the Government declared a policy and applied a formula for the adjustment of Commonwealth superannuation pensions. This is known as the 'Notional Salary Adjustment Scheme'. This scheme operates to keep the retired Commonwealth employees' pensions in line with movements in the Commonwealth Public Service salaries. But the last adjustment was made in 1967 and this 4-year delay has resulted in a drastic erosion in the purchasing power of these pensions. The truth is that by December 1970 the real value of pensions had declined by 1 1 per cent since the 1967 adjustment. The notional salary formula should be applied to Commonwealth superannuitants immediately and the Commonwealth Superannuation Act should be amended to provide for an annual adjustment on the basis of that formula. As we of the Democratic Labor Party see it, the Commonwealth Government is the largest employer in the land. It has a responsibility, therefore, not only to its own retired employees but also to set an example as a good employer. 
In conclusion, let me repeat what I said at the outset. There is an urgent need for appropriate action to relieve the present financial situation of senior citizens who sought in earlier years to ensure their future by wise investment, insurance and thrift. There is also need for action to relieve the financial situation of those who are being deprived by inflation of the benefit of superannuation for which they paid as government employees. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What quantity of wool is presently stockpiled by the Australian Wool Commission and what percentage of the Australian wool clip sold since November 1970 does this represent. 
What procedure does the Commission intend to adopt in selling this accumulated stock, in what bale quantities will it be sold and will sales be guanteed as by the Commission to type and quality. 
by leave - I do not propose to make a lengthy speech on this Bill. I rise merely to say that the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill, which seeks the approval of the Parliament for the ratification by Australia of the International Tin Agreement. My colleagues and I will vote accordingly. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. 1 . Is it a fact that a  large  tonnage of liquefied petroleum gas was recently shipped by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to South America and that the price of this gas was about $15 to $16 per ton? 2. Is it also a fact that the current price of this type of gas from Australian refineries is in excess of $30 a ton? 3. Can the Minister inform the Senate why the Department of Customs and Excise grants export licences instead of the gas being used inside Australia and thus assisting to reduce the cost of living and the cost of manufacture? 4. Is it a fact that on long term contracts for liquefied gas for Japan the Esso-BHP price is of the order of $16 to $17 a ton? 5. Is it also a fact that the total committed for export by Esso-BHP is approximately 1 million tons a year? Can the Minister inform the Senate why this liquefied petroleum gas is not available from Esso-BHP to consumers in Australia at less than $32 a ton? 
 The Democratic Labor Party will not oppose the Bill. Indeed, it will vote for it. There are a couple of areas in which we are concerned. I propose to deal with one. My colleague,  Senator Little,  will deal with the other. The matter, with which we are concerned and with which I propose to deal relates to the granting of customs export licences for the export of liquefied petroleum gas. The effect of the granting of such licences is that the gas is sold overseas at about half the price that the Australian consumer is paying for it. I direct the attention of , the Senate to the most unsatisfactory situation pertaining to the liquefied petroleum gas industry . in Australia. I want to. speak briefly about what happened following, the introduction of Australian crude oil to local refineries, coupled with the policy of the suppliers of Bass Strait crude oil in relation to the marketing of liquefied petroleum gas, which policy is costing our economy millions of dollars a year, principally in those areas where we can least afford it, namely, rural activities and decentralised industries. 
Liquefied petroleum gas was used in a minor way in Australia until 15 years ago when it became available, commercially from refineries here. As a result a number of companies and government utilities subsequently spent tens df millions of dollars on equipment and- installations and they have built up a large market for this product in Australia. This' has brought tremendous benefit to people both economically and socially. One of the valuable properties of this gas is its ability to-be converted to the liquid state under- reasonable pressures. This is transported in steel containers throughout this country. Its use falls into three categories. Firstly, as a replacement for coal gas. it has enabled many country gas works to convert to the use of this fuel as replacement for carbonisation of coal and undoubtedly has averted the closedown of many such country gas undertakings, particularly in New South Wales and Victoria. In western Victoria I understand, with the exception of larger towns such as Ballarat and Warrnambool, almost- every country town with a gas undertaking uses liquefied petroleum gas as a fuel. Much the same situation applies in New South Wales where many councils with gas undertakings use liquefied petroleum gas as a substitute for coal gas and, in addition, they sell liquefied petroleum gas in cylinders to consumers. In Canberra, thousands of homes use liquefied petroleum gas, particularly for winter heating. 
A second large area of utilisation is for industrial use, particularly in those locations where natural gas is not available, for liquefied petroleum gas is much cleaner than town gas and is preferred by many industries. Further, decentralised industries use this gas as a fuel and were it not available the industries may well have had to locate in capital cities where town gas is available. The third and most important area of use is in the country areas where town gas is not available and even more so where electricity is not available to country housewives who have to rely on the use of liquefied petroleum gas for cooking, water heating, space heating and, in warmer parts of the country, for refrigeration. Before liquefied petroleum gas was available the country housewife used wood, coke or kerosene as fuel. Liquefied petroleum gas has made a tremendous impact on the standard of living. Most country hospital schools and homes cook with liquefied petroleum gas. Likewise, many people whose daily task necessitates living under difficult conditions - people such as railway fettlers, road builders and fishermen - have had their living standards tremendously improved by use of this gas. Its use in caravans, boats and camping is well known. Sales growth and acceptance of this product can readily be appreciated by studying figures provided by the Department of National Development. 
I believe that I have amply indicated the valuable properties of this gas and the part it plays in the Australian economy, but what is the position today? Liquefied petroleum gas is obtained from natural gas as prepared for distribution from crude oil refineries. Huge quantities of liquefied petroleum gas extracted from our Bass Strait natural gas are being sold overseas for export and are not available for the Australian market. Also the maximum amount of liquefied petroleum gas is being extracted from Australian crude oil by the suppliers of the product before being delivered to refineries. This together with liquefied petroleum gas extracted from natural gas is sold for export at very low prices - about $15 to $17 a ton f.o.b. - or less than half the usual Australian exrefinery price. On the other hand, the fact that Australian crude oil now contains substantially less liquefied petroleum gas means that production of liquefied petroleum gas from Australian refineries, particularly in New South Wales and Queensland, has been reduced, particularly in respect to propane. This in turn has led to higher prices. It is known that in the Sydney area as well as in Canberra liquefied petroleum gas prices have risen in the last few months. 
The normal price for liquefied petroleum gas from Australian refineries is $32 to $40 a ton and the ridiculous situation now pertaining is that Australian industry and domestic consumers, particularly those in country areas, are paying a far higher price for this product while large quantities are being exported to ..places such as Argentina at about half the price or less than half the price at. which the product is made available to Australian distributors. Let us consider the effect pf this. If the Australian market absorbs a quarter of a million tons a year then I suggest that the present policy is placing on Australian industry and domestic consumers a surcharge of close to $5m a year. This surcharge is hitting those consumers who can least afford it; that is, those in decentralised industries and the rural community. 
In Australia last winter we had a situation in which gas was rationed in many country areas and cities, and after requests by State authorities the Esso company and the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd agreed to release some gas from Westernport and alleviate gas rationing in Victorian country towns and the city of Brisbane. I submit that we should not be in a situation in which this lew cost, high grade fuel is made available to the Australian community only in an emergency, whereas our Japanese and Argentinian friends are purchasing huge quantities at bedrock prices. It is particularly galling when Argentina is an active competitor of our farmers in the European Common Market and Japan is the most active competitor of our secondary industries in the South East Asian market. We give these people the benefit of bur natural gas at bargain basement prices which, in turn, enables them to reduce costs and to give our rural and secondary industries stronger competition. 
We have a natural resource on the ocean shelf of Australia. This resource should be of benefit to Australia. However, in fact, since its discovery the price has not been reduced but has risen while huge quantities have been sold overseas at low prices. Whilst city dwellers in Victoria may have obtained benefits from natural gas discovered in Bass Strait, those benefits have not flowed on to country consumers of gas in Victoria or elsewhere. So, we urge the Government to ensure that this valuable product does not come to be exported overseas at low prices while we in Australia are forced to pay much more as a result of an arrangement by which oil companies maintain an ex-refinery price in Australia about. twice the export. price and Esso-BHP co-operate by denying this natural resource to. Australia. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the Bill and it will oppose and vote against the amendment moved by  Senator Wilkinson  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. I give notice that at the appropriate stage I shall move the following amendment: 
At the end of motion add -  , but the Senate ls of the opinion that there should be constituted an expert Commission ot Inquiry into the whole structure of the Rural Economy which would examine its importance, its role and its function in the Australian economy, and in particular examine the following subjects: 
Expected export demand for Australian rural products, taking into account: 
the policies of the European Economic Community; 
the possibility of Australian associate membership of EEC; 
reciprocal trading agreements on the basis of securing constant markets for rural production by tariff concessions to consumer countries exporting secondary products to Australia (Japan in particular); 
the possibility of a South East Asian Community; 
Rural producers' costs, taking into account: 
the Australian tariff; 
government policies and other factors tending to raise costs in Australia; 
incidence of railway freights on rural producers (in comparison with urban charges); 
road transport; 
the wage structure of the rural economy; 
Finance 
Financial structure required to support necessary changes and the service and finance for such purpose. 
Policy, taking into account: 
whether there is a case for permanent or temporary subsidies from the urban to the rural sector; 
whether any aggregation or reorganisation of present rural holdings is necessary, and if so, whether it should be achieved by independent action by rural producers, or through governmentassisted  schemes; 
expected future rural labour force required; 
rural education including re-training for any fanners facing displacement; 
establishment of decentralised industrial towns which would offer employment within that region.' 
A great deal of information concerning rural industries is already available in the various State agriculture departments and in the Commonwealth Bureau of Agricultural Economics. But all of this information ought to be pooled with that obtained by the committee of inquiry which we propose in order to formulate future policies. There can be no doubt about the urgency of this matter nor about our reasons for opposing the Labor Party's amendment. I draw the attention of the Senate to some of the matters raised by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  in his second reading speech. He said: 
The industry is. in a critical position and a particularly critical situation in the immediate short term. 
I suggest to  Senator Wilkinson,  who moved the Labor Party's amendment, that he should consider the effect that the carrying of the amendment would have, having regard to the critical situation in which the industry is at present. It would mean the withdrawal of this Bill and the immediate cessation of any assistance to those in the industry. 
 I am reminding you that that is one of the reasons for our refusal to support the proposed amendment. There can be no doubt that the Australian farming community is in a state of acute and chronic crisis. Bold policies are needed. Bold policies must be devised to cope with this problem, which is a major one for the nation as a whole. The present situation is not so much a problem for the national economy as it is a social catastrophe. There are approximately 500,000 people working in agriculture and perhaps as many again dependent for their livelihood on the purchases made by agricultural producers. They are mainly people in country towns who provide the farming areas with the multitude of services that farmers require to carry on their businesses. Virtually one million Australians are in trouble. 
The main problem is fairly clear. It seems that the market for most of Australian primary products is steadily collapsing. In the case of wool, to which the Minister referred in his second reading speech, its competitive position has been eroded by synthetic fibres, and high advertising expenditure plus takeovers of textile firms have switched large segments of the world's fibre market to synthetics. Another factor is that in Europe and the United States of America lighter fibres have become more fashionable. Perhaps this is because of the introduction of central heating on a wide scale in advanced countries and because of the substitution of motor cars for public transport. 
That could be one factor. There also is a lesser need for heavy clothing. What is more, by improved methods and with larger manufacturing plants scientists have been able to continue reducing the prices of synthetic fibres each year. The inevitable result has been the gradual and occasional sensational collapse in the demand for wool and in wool prices. In the case of wheat, technology is the villain again. India and Pakistan used to import large quantities of wheat each year to meet their food needs. In some years those countries imported from North America more than 4 times the total Australian production, but agricultural scientists developed new strains of wheat and rice which yielded far greater quantities of grain. After about 3 years, the so-called green revolution has go those countries close to self sufficiency in food production, and has eliminated a major market for export grains. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
General Business taking precedence over Government Business after 8 p.m. 
 When the sitting was suspended for dinner I was outlining the Democratic Labor Party's attitude to this Bill and to the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition by  Senator Wilkinson.  I gave notice of my intention to move an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. In that amendment we will call for an inquiry by a commission of experts into the whole structure of the rural economy. The inquiry would examine the rural economy's importance, its role and its function in the Australian economy. 
Whatever time it might take, I believe that it is absolutely essential. If my friend  Senator Webster  will bear with me, I think I will be able to convince him in a very short space of time of the necessity for such an inquiry. 
I appreciate the comment made by  Senator Cavanagh.  We propose an immediate means of dealing with the existing crisis. I ask  Senator Cavanagh  to be patient. I think he will be satisfied when he hears what I have to say. The commission of inquiry would have to be prepared to examine the role of every rural industry, present and future. It would have to examine the complex economic, social and personal implications of any restructuring of the rural sector. It would have to accept the fact of a rapidly changing national economy in its relation to a changing world economy and new and changing patterns of consumer demand throughout the world, particularly in the developing countries. That does not exhaust the area of inquiry; it merely lists some of the matters for inquiry. Obviously the investigation that we propose can be entrusted only to a body which, in terms of personnel, time, technical knowledge and administrative assistance, is equipped to carry out this immense and vital task. Need I say that we are not proposing an inquiry or a commission of inquiry consisting of parliamentarians. 
Before dinner I dealt with wool and wheat. The markets for sugar and cotton also have been saturated by enlarged production overseas. The reality is that the poor countries are striving to increase their export earnings and are promoting the production of large quantities of these and other products. The truth is that the world's farmers are in trouble because of overproduction. Man's scientific skills ensure that he has enough to eat. Indeed, they ensure that he produces too much. The great human problem is how to keep production in line with demand and how to cope with the depressing effect of this surplus production on prices and incomes. The West Europeans, for instance, with their peasant farming in the midst of modern manufacturing industry, can afford to give lavish subsidies and provide huge tariff barriers to protect their farmers from foreign competition. To a lesser extent, the Japanese protect their farmers in the same way. In Europe the process of nurturing high cost farmers with subsidies has gone so far that an area which was once a major importer of foodstuffs is now exporting as much as it once imported. Of course, it cannot export on an economic basis because of costs; it dumps its surpluses on the world market for whatever price they will fetch, and the European taxpayers pay the bill. This is another acutely depressing factor in the consideration of the future of Australia's rural economy which at present is heavily dependent upon markets overseas, especially for wool. 
The third bearish factor is that the world demand for most agricultural produce is growing very slowly, if at all. This is because the products of agriculture are rather basic necessities and, as the standard of living rises, spending shifts to the more sophisticated products. Contrary to the illinformed chatter of so many do-gooders, most of the world's population is now adequately fed and clothed. The truth is that when people get more money they want to spend it on housing, television sets, cars and the like. The cold reality is that the staples - wool, wheat, sugar, butter and cotton - have a very dismal future. Of course there may be temporary booms in the market. There may be a drought in a major grain producing country or there may be a plant disease. 
Australia has to devise policies for the rural community based on a cold, pragmatic assessment of the likely future, where the trends are for increasing difficulties in selling and declining prices or growing surpluses. It will do no good to rant at middle men. Certainly selling methods can be improved, but this will not work miracles and affect the fundamental problems. Similarly, it is of no good blaming the textile producers who buy the wool for paying insufficient for it. With the prices for synthetics so low, they must switch to using synthetics if they are forced to pay very much more for wool. The customers will pay for wool products a certain margin over the price of synthetic goods, but woollen goods will not sell if the margin is expanded significantly. As we see it, the 
Government's policies in the past have failed, mainly because they have been directed at supporting particular rural industries. This is an economic approach. 
The social approach which is needed looks not at the problems of industries which are largely insoluble but at the problems of the rural people as such. It poses these questions: What are their debts? What are their current incomes? What future do they have if they continue to produce their present products? What, if anything, could be done to make this produce a reasonable income on current trends of prices and costs? What range of alternatives is open for the family? It is for these reasons that we urge the adoption of our proposal for a commission to inquire into the whole rural economy. Earlier in the debate an honourable senator interjected and asked what would happen to the farmer meanwhile. We appreciate that not only must there be a long term approach to the problem but also that there must be a short term approach. 
As we are debating the 2 Bills together I take it that I will be in order at this stage in outlining an amendment which I propose to move to the motion for the second reading of the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Bill. I give notice now that I intend to move an amendment to the motion for the second reading of that Bill in these terms: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate is of the opinion: 
that the most rapid and the most effective emergency relief to the primary producers would be achieved by the Commonwealth establishing a national rural finance corporation outside the banking system; such corporation to be financed by the Commonwealth to fund and re-finance rural debts, making provision for interest free non-redemption periods of the debts so funded; 
that such corporation should bc especially structured to the cyclical nature of rural production and should provide outgoing finance by way of low interest loans over a repayment period up to 25 years; 
I think the Government might do well to pay attention to such an expression of opinion. 
I disagree. I remind the honourable senator of the urgency motion that we moved not so long ago in relation to pensions. I think this amendment is worthy of consideration and that if the honourable senator, thinks about it he will be inclined to support our proposal. . 
It is true that we did convey to the Prime Minister the proposals contained in our urgency motions, and I am hopeful that those proposals will be effective. I am hopeful - indeed I am sure - that if the Senate supports the proposal we put forward tonight the Government will pay heed to it. 
 Senator Cavanagh  will have plenty of time later to take my proposition to pieces. I suggest that he might leave it until then and that, if he has not a better alternative to offer, he might support this proposal. Finally, 1 should like to draw attention to the third part of the proposed amendment. I do not propose to speak on it at length as my colleagues will develop this matter later. In this part of the amendment I propose: 
that the Commonwealth Government should retire from the field of estate duties thus granting relief from the dual incidence of succession duties imposed by both the Commonwealth and State governments. 
There is no reason for the Commonwealth to be in the field of estate duty - It ought to vacate that field forthwith. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! Is the amendment seconded? 
For the sake of emphasis I should like to restate shortly the proposition concerning the rural commission of inquiry that we will submit in the amendment. Among, the things that we would want to be examined by this commission would be the expected export demand for Australian rural products, taking into account the policies of the European Economic Community, the possibility of Australian associate membership of the European Economic Community, and reciprocal trading agreements on the basis of securing constant markets for rural production by tariff concessions for consumer countries exporting secondary products to Australia - Japan in particular - and the possibility of a South East Asian Community. 
I hope that  Senator Kennelly  will have a better proposition to put forward. 
We may hear from the honourable senator subsequently. 
If the honourable senator will keep quiet for 5 minutes he can then rise and tell us all he knows. It will only take about a minute and a half. The commission of inquiry will examine rural producers' cost, taking into account the Australian tariff; government policies and other factors tending to raise costs in Australia; the incidence of railway freights on rural producers in comparison with urban charges; road transport; and the wage structure of the rural economy. The inquiry will also consider finance, and investigate the financial structure required to support necessary changes, and the service and finance for such purposes. It will take into account whether there is a case for permanent or temporary subsidies from the urban to the rural sector; whether any aggregation or reorganisation of present rural holdings is necessary and, if so, whether it should be achieved by independent action by rural producers, or through government-assisted schemes; the expected future rural labour force required; rural education, including re-training for any farmers facing displacement; and the establishment of decentralised industrial towns which would offer employment within the region. I shall conclude on that note, and I hope that my detractor on the other side will have something better to offer. 
As I indicated last week, it is my intention to move an amendment. I gave notice of it last week and I now formally move: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate is of the opinion: 
that the most rapid and the most effective emergency relief to the primary producers would be achieved by the Commonwealth establishing a national rural finance corporation outside the banking system; such corporation to be financed by the Commonwealth to fund and re-finance rural debts, making provision for interest free non-redemption periods of the debts so funded; 
that such corporation should be especially structured to the cyclical nature of rural production and should provide outgoing finance by way of low interest loans over a repayment period up to 25 years; and 
that the Commonwealth Government should retire from the field of estate duties thus granting relief from the dual incidence of succession duties imposed by both the Commonwealth and State governments.' 
I wish to speak briefly to the amendment.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  as we point out in the early part of the debate on the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill the present disastrous position in our rural industries will soon reach a stage of national crisis unless urgent remedial steps are taken. 
That is probably true. This is why we propose the immediate establishment of a national rural finance corporation which will be adequately financed and structured so to provide low interest bearing loans. This corporation should immediately begin to fund and refinance rural debts, making provision for interest free and non-redemption periods of the debts so funded. The position as we see it - I think it is generally accepted - is that agriculture is nation wide and most of the States can produce the majority of agricultural products which are common to all States. With improved and widespread fast transport facilities serving the exigencies of capital and main city needs flexibility is essential. Only a national agricultural bank - if I may use that term, because it is in fact what the proposed rural finance corporation would be - could cover the needs of such a varied and diversified range of products and circumstances. Agricultural products are not in any way comparable with trade and industry, due to the nature and the length of the operations involved, to the rate of yield, to the variable conditions such as weather, disease and so on, to demand, to investment in land, the equipment and to the available transport facilities. 
It is not mere conversion or processing of the raw materials. There are many variables including weather patterns, disease, markets and so on. A man is largely powerless alone in the face of such conditions. There is also the factor that agricultural products are perishable. Compared with general industry agricultural systems are cumbersome and once commenced it is difficult to adapt production quickly or easily to new economic conditions. For example, work once started cannot be stopped, production cannot be diminished nor can it be redirected. No organisation has been successful in effectively regulating output or choice of crops. The sugar industry has been most successful in terms of actually agreed upon interna) organisation but even that industry must contend with hitherto unmanageable world supply and demand. 
There is a very great variety and diversification of agricultural undertakings in a state of constant change and activity. Therefore credit which is available to the agricultural industry must be different in scope and approach from that which is available to manufacturers and traders. Agricultural operations cover greater periods of time than other processes. Even short term credits should extend over, say 9 to 12 months. Yield on capital invested is low. The farmer does not fix prices, so profits are limited by circumstances he cannot control. It is for these reasons that we feel that an entirely new approach to the financing of agricultural industries is needed. As regards the present crisis, it seems that farmers with good financial prospects are able to get the finance they require, but this rural finance corporation is designed primarily to help the many thousands of farmers whose farms will not produce a decent income at present prices. These farmers need special consideration. A decent income is needed for them to service interest charges and repayments on loans. 
The attitude of the DLP is that the emphasis should be on people and not on properties; on the men and women of the rural industries and not on the industries themselves. Very many farmers do not want to leave their farms, and every effort should be made, we say, to ensure that their income is a decent one by providing them with financial arrangements that the rural finance corporation could provide. Sometimes it will be possible to ensure this on the existing farm by switching crops, by using new techniques and by using more efficient equipment. Sometimes it will require property enlargement so that the farm can operate on a larger scale. Some farmers will be willing to shift to more productive employment if given a chance to do so. The rural finance corporation proposed by the amendment we have moved could make grants and loans for the re-establishment of men wanting to leave their farms. They should be able to get generous compensation - at an average valuation over a run of past years - for their farms which would enable them to invest in some business or other undertaking should they desire to do so. 
It is most essential, as we see it, that the farmers' debts be funded as is proposed by the amendment and that farmers be granted a moratorium, so to speak. I hate to use that term since it is so offensive in another context, but we mean that there should be an interest free and non-repayment period in respect of the loan so funded. I do not propose to say more than that. The third proposition that we are submitting concerns the Commonwealth Government vacating the field of death duties, and I understand that  Senator Byrne  will deal with that aspect. I commend the amendment to honourable senators. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the  President  of the Senate and members of the Parliament assembled. 
We, the undersigned Councillors of the Shire of Shoalhaven in New South Wales, wish to bring the following matter to your attention. 
The Council of the Shire of Shoalhaven recently called tenders for the supply of commercial propane, and despite advertisements in the Sydney Morning Herald and the forwarding of specifications for supply to all companies who had submitted tenders in 1968, two tenders only were received, one for $59.75 per ton (for periods of either one or two years) and the other for $57.50 per lon (for one year) and $56.50 per ton (for two years). The propane is to be delivered to the plant al Nowra. 
The lowest tender of $56.50 per ton wa: accepted, and represents an increase of $9.28  De.  ton above the previous price. This large increase seriously affects the economics of the Gas Trading Undertaking. 
We are aware of the increases in wages and other associated costs with the supply and delivery of propane, and acknowledge that these factors have some bearing on the increase in cost. However, it is understood that the main cause for the high cost is the artificial shortage of liquefied Petroleum Gas created by Esso-B.H.P. exporting large tonnages of liquefied gas to Japan on long term contract, at prices in the order of $16 to $17 per ton, and more recently to South America at a similar price. Meanwhile, the current price of this type of gas from Australian Refineries is in excess of $30 per ton. 
When Council converted its coal gas carbonising plant to tempered liquefied petroleum, it was given an assurance by the Gas Department of the Local Government Department and other authorities conversant with the industry, that this byproduct from oil discovered in Australia would be plentiful and that its 'price should decrease, certainly not increase to the extent of over $9.00 per ton. Local Government Councils, their ratepayers and consumers have invested millions of dollars in the Gas Industry 
We. the Councillors of the Shire of Shoalhaven are of the strong opinion that Councils, which are dependent upon supply of liquefied Petroleum Gas, should be entitled to supplies of gas at prices similar to those applicable at present in the export of this gas to Japan and South America The home market should be granted preference over the sale of liquefied petroleum gas to overseas countries. 
 We respectively request that this petition be referred to the Standing Committee for Primary and Secondary Industryand Trade for investigation 
We, your humble servants, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Motion (by  Senator Kane)  agreed to: 
That the petition be referred to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral been drawn to an article which appeared in the Melbourne 'Observer' on 1st August 1971 alleging, firstly, that secret terror groups at Melbourne's Monash and La Trobe Universities are directed by a highly paid officer of the Australian Broadcasting Commission; secondly, that the ABC man is employed as a special projects officer in the luxurious third floor offices of the ABC in Melbourne, and thirdly, that (he man works for the ABC under the name of Jon Cassidy? Has the Minister investigated these allegations? If not. will he do so and, in any event, report urgently to the Parliament on this matter? Who recruited Jon Cassidy as an ABC employee? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is the Government fully informed as to the purposes of the amalgamation of the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society of Australia and the Sheet Metal Workers' Union of Australia? 
What will be the total membership of the amalgamated union, its total income and the total amount of the political fund? 
How many members of the Communist Party or parties belong to the national staffs of the three unions, including the Federal office and State offices; and what are their names? 
What percentage of the membership of the. three unions voted in the recent ballot dealing with amalgamation, who counted the ballot, and was the ballot counted by persons actively supporting one side, or persons representing both sides? 
I move: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until tomorrow at 10.55 a.m. 
I do so for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency, namely: 
The developing practice of using industrial Trade Union organisations  to  effect purposes of a political character, not designed to or having the effect of improvingthe industrial conditions of the members of these organisations and not directly and immediately related to industrial issues but for the purpose of affecting political decisions, properly resting within the Constitutional power of the Commonwealth through its elected Parliament and its instrumentalities and thus usurping the functions of Government. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. What limits will be fixed by the Wool Commission for the 1971-72 season when it opens, having in mind the fixed average price for growers of 36c per lb? Having regard to the Minister's statement that 10 per cent of the clip would not benefit, what types are included in that 10 per cent? 
 My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. Although the Government has tried to enforce a higher degree of competition in industry, firstly by the Trade Practices Act and then by the Resale Price Maintenance Act, it is patent that administrative action in government is cutting across these objectives, particularly in the oil industry. I ask the Minister: Is it not a fact that both last year and this year the Minister for Customs and Excise refused to prevent the importation of petrol which is being sold by small independent operators who can and do sell to the motorist more cheaply than do major oil companies, but that to conform with Government requirements these importers are required to buy Australian crude oil based on the amount of petrol they sell? Is it not a fact that by the administrative action of the Department of Customs and Excise these 'importersindependents' who have no refinery capacity, are prevented from disposing of their Australian crude oil to their best advantage, either by selling it abroad, where it is well regarded for low sulphur content, or by selling in Australia to the highest bidder? Is it not a fact that the independent importers can be driven out of business by a combination of being unable to dispose of the crude oil they are forced to buy and by deliberate price wars by major oil groups in areas in which they operate? 
Does the Minister not agree that the independents, because of their low overheads and the way in which they operate, can and do sell from 3c to 4c a gallon cheaper than do the established petrol selling companies? Is it not true to say that on the 1969-70 consumption of motor spirit in Australia, each cent per gallon saving to the consumer is worth over $20m? Does the Minister not consider that when the independent importer of petroleum is required to buy a quota of Australian crude oil it then belongs to him and he should be free to do with it what he chooses within the law? Does the Minister not agree that at the same time the Government should take all steps within the framework of its own laws to ensure that the competitive force within the oil industry is not choked off by deliberate destruction of the businesses which already have benefited the consumer by millions of dollars? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Why is the bulk of advertising by the Commonwealth Government and its instrumentalities handled by agencies which are 100 per cent foreign owned when in Australia there are more Australian owned agencies than there are foreign owned agencies? Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Advertising Council - a body set up to handle Commonwealth advertising - is monopolised by members who head 100 per cent foreign owned agencies? Could not the Australian owned agencies handle, for example, the advertising for Trans- Australia Airlines, which is handled by Hansen Rubensohn-McCann Erickson Pty Ltd, which is 100 per cent foreign owned; for Qantas Airways Ltd, whose advertising is handled by Jackson Wain and Co. Pty Ltd- 
I ask: Why is the bulk of the Commonwealth Government's advertising and that of the government instrumentalities handled by agencies which are 100 per cent foreign owned when there are more Australian owned agencies than foreign owned agencies in the Commonwealth? Is it a. fact that the Commonwealth Advertising Council - a body set up to handle Commonwealth advertising - is monopolised by members who head 100 per cent foreign owned agencies? 
I am not aware of the points raised by the honourable senator in his question. I do know that the advertising of certain organisations is handled through certain firms. But, as to the implications of the question in respect of foreign ownership vis-a-vis Australian ownership and participation, I would need to obtain some information about that. When I do, I will make it available to the honourable senator and the Senate. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise aware of allegations made in the Darwin Press by  Mr Shigeo  Kitano, the master of the Japanese vessel 'Akitsushima', that on 27th August 1971 a customs clearance was given at Darwin by the Department against the master's wishes and this enabled the vessel to clear the port? Is he aware of the master's claim that such removal of the vessel amounted to a theft which was aided and abetted by certain officers of the Department? Is he further aware that as a result of this action the vessel took to sea without a qualified master or crew and is subsequently reported to have gone ashore at Ambon in Indonesia? Should these allegations prove to be so, will the Minister indicate what steps the Department proposes to take to ensure that the vessel is returned to its rightful owner? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral by stating that it concerns an employee of the Australian Broadcasting Commission named Jon Cassidy about whom I asked a question on 18th August, the reply to that question not having been received yet. Has the Minister's attention been directed to an article contained in the 
Maxwell Newton publication 'Melbourne Observer' of 12th September which alleges, firstly, that one of the main speakers at a Workers Student Alliance conference held at the University of Melbourne on the previous weekend was  Mr Jon  'Darce' Cassidy, special projects officer in the Australian Broadcasting Commission; secondly, that 120 delegates to the Workers Student Alliance conference- 
On behalf of the Opposition  Senator Murphy  said that the Opposition cannot support our amendment because it is innocuous. The truth is that the amendment moved by the Opposition was innocuous.  Senator Murphy's  remarks seemed to be more concerned about the Government being in office only because of the support of the Democratic Labor Party. He said that if the DLP means what it says in the amendment moved by my colleague  Senator Little  it should be doing all it can to throw the Government out of office. The alternative would be so immeasurably worse than the present Government that under no circumstances would we in any way assist the Australian Labor Party in its present condition to become the Government. If  Senator Murphy  really meant what he said, surely he would support the amendment moved by  Senator Little,  particularly in respect of the matter of pensions. I think it is true to say that in the other place an amendment in relation to the Budget made reference to the necessity for an independent tribunal to deal with pensions. Here is the opportunity for the Party to which  Senator Murphy  belongs to support such a proposition, if it wishes to do so. That opportunity is certainly in this amendment. 1 think it was mentioned also in another place during the debate that what was needed more than anything else was long term low interest loans for the rural industries. Again this is to be found in the amendment moved by my colleague  Senator Little.  In short, if the Opposition is genuine in what it claims to stand for, it would have no alternative but to vote for the amendment. But as it has done in the past, it will vote against the amendment. We can well expect that it will do so again. On no occasion has the ALP judged matters on their merits. It has always played party politics and judged matters on the source from which they emanated. 
I am sorry that I am upsetting our friends. The simple truth, whether one likes it or not, is that the ALP is out of government today because of its own doing. 
 I am prepared to accept that. If the ALP stands for what we claim it stands for, perhaps the most positive thing that we have done in the last 15 years is to keep ALP members on the Opposition benches. 
ls the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science aware of a statement by Professor J. Auchmuty, Chairman of the Australian Vice-Chancellors' Committee, reported in yesterday's Press, that a significant amount pf student union fees collected by universities is being used for semi-political and non-university purposes? Are Commonwealth moneys paid to such student unions on behalf of the holders of Commonwealth scholarships? If so, will the Minister take steps to have the Joint Committee of Public Accounts investigate the use of public moneys for such non-academic purposes? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Did the Minister, both last year and this year, permit the importation of petrol for sale by small independent operators, who sell petrol more cheaply than the major oil companies. . 
Do Government requirements oblige such importers to buy Australian crude oil, based on the amount of petrol they sell; if so, should they not be free to legally dispose of this oil. 
Are these independent importers, who have no refining capacity, prevented by the Department of Customs and Excise from disposing of their Australian crude oil either abroad or on the Australian market. 
Can these independentimporters be driven out of business by a combination of being unable to dispose of their Australian crude oil, and by price wars waged by the major oil companies. 
Can the independent operators sell petrol at three to four cents per gallon less than the major oil companies. 
Is the saving to consumers, based on the consumption of motor spirit in Australia in 1969- 70, more than $20m for each cent per gallon reduction in the price of petrol. 
Will the Government take action to ensurethat the competitive force within the oil industry, represented by the independent importers, is not choked off by the destruction of these businesses. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy. I refer to a recent statement by the Minister for the Navy that certain unions were demanding the right to put persons in positions of employment in our naval dockyards without the management having the right of scrutiny or to say who is to be employed. I ask the Minister: What are the unions concerned? Are any of the officers of these unions members of the Communist parties? Will the Minister inform the Parliament of the steps that will be taken to ensure that the 6 light destroyers planned for the Royal Australian Navy are built expeditiously in Australian shipyards? 
 Mr Deputy President,  I rise at this time as I did not obtain the call, because of my slowness in rising to my feet, at the second reading stage. I wished at that time to indicate that my Party supports the Bill. Our support is clear now that the Bill has progressed to this point. On behalf of my colleagues, I commend the Government for its action on this matter. Honourable senators will recall that on 7th April of this year on behalf of my Party I proposed for discussion a matter of public importance. That matter referred inter alia to the urgent need for an immediate adjustment of superannuation payments to former Commonwealth employees in accordance with the 'Notional Salary 
Adjustment Scheme' and for incorporation in the Superannuation Act of provision for regular review of the level of payments. I do not think that I need add any more than that. We are happy that the Government has taken note of our proposition and, indeed, of the decision of the Senate in this matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
My question to the Minister representing, the Minister for Primary Industry relates to the guaranteed price of wool of 36c per lb. How is the difference calculated between the actual price received by the grower and the guaranteed price being paid to him? What types of wool have been excluded from participation in the guaranteed price scheme, and on what grounds? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Did the Department of Customs and Excise give a clearance to the Japanese vessel 'Akitsushima' on 27th August 1971 against the wishes of the vessel's master, which enabled the vessel to clear the port of Darwin; if so, did the removal of the vessel constitute its theft. 
Did the vessel go to sea without a qualified master or crew, and didit subsequently go ashore at Ambon in Indonesia. 
Will the Department of Customs and Excise take steps to restore the vessel to its rightful owner. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Was a motion tabled in the British House of Commons on 22nd April 1971, which seeks action by the British Government to have the United Nations Organisation inquire into the responsibility for the mass murders of 15,000 Polish prisoners of war and intellectuals in the summer of 1940, of whom the remains of 4,500 were uncovered at Katyn in the 'Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in April 1943? 
Were the signatures of 186 members of the British House of Commons obtained in support of this request, and was the support of twelve peers also given following a 2-hours debate in the House of Lords on 17th June 1971? 
Was similar action to enlist support for this move taken on 1st July 1971 by  Mr R.  Pulinski, a member of the United States of America House of Representatives? 
Will the Minister instruct the Australian delegation to the forthcoming General Assembly of the United Nations Organisation to support the move to initiate an inquiry into this matter? 
I ask the Minister  representing the Minister for Education and Science whether he is aware of the pornographic content of the New South Wales University student journal Tharunka', particularly the 'Family Issue' dated 28th July 1971? Is the taxpayers' money being used in the production of Tharunka' and associated publications such as the notorious 'Sex Manual'? 
-I ask the Minister rep  resenting the Postmaster-General: Is Tharunka', the student journal of the University of New South Wales, registered at the General Post Office for transmission by post as a periodical? Is the Postmaster-General aware of the pornographic content of this periodical, particularly the issue dated 28th July 1971? If so, does he propose to withdraw permission for transmission by post of this periodical under category B? 
I have been wondering what the learned discourse we heard from  Senator Cavanagh  on the wrongful prescription of dangerous drugs by certain doctors has to do with the matter before the Committee. However it did remind me of something I read during the dinner break. The saying was German in origin and was this: 'If you cannot be a king then be a doctor'. At least I am indebted to  Senator Cavanagh  for reminding me of that remark. 
The Democratic Labor Party does not agree with the Opposition's attitude to these clauses. The Government's proposal is to increase the contributions from 50c to $1. The 50c contribution came into operation in 1960. Having regard to costs and prices since then and the deterioration of the value of the $1 the proposition seems to us to be fair enough. What is more, if the Opposition's proposal were successful it would result in an additional cost of something like $24.6m. That reminds me to repeat what I said in my speech earlier, that if we adopt the Labor Party's attitude of benefits for everybody it would mean the destruction of the economy of this country. I merely repeat what I said at the beginning: My party will vote for the clauses as they stand. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. I ask: Does the cancellation of the plan for the building of a new local post office at Haberfield, the removal of the teleprinter there and the downgrading of the unit by the removal of at least 2 staff members mean that the Government is committed to the ultimate closure of this post office? Is the Department committed to a policy of centralisation with Leichhardt as the regional centre of the district? Is it not true that the acquisition of land at a considerable price would be required for such a project at Leichhardt? Does the Department own a large area of land suitable for a new Haberfield Post Office at Haberfield? 
I rise to indicate the attitude of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to the National Health Bill 1971 (No. 2) and to the amendment moved by the Opposition. At the outset I say that the view of my Party is that the Government is to be commended for its decision to withdraw the National Health Bill 1971 and to introduce the Bill which we are now considering in lieu of the withdrawn Bill. It is said - and I think well said - that one of the besetting sins of politicians in power is the sin of pride. It is rare that we find people in power who have the humility to admit that first decisions are not always right ones and who are prepared to make necessary changes. 
The decision of the Government in having a second look at this legislation and in doing what it has done is worthy of commendation. I think that, in no mean measure, this action can be attributed to the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  I put on record that that is the attitude of my Party towards this Bill. Naturally, as would be expected, we were quite elated to find that the Government looked again at this question of the proposals on the friendly societies and the fact that the withdrawn Bill provided that friendly societies would not be permitted to rebate more than 50c of pharmaceutical benefits items supplied. The Bill before us alters that concept entirely. The Government has decided to allow friendly society dispensaries to rebate the proposed $1 patient contribution in whole or in part to those members who joined a friendly society prior to 24th April 1964. 
We see also that the Government has decided to reverse its previous decision on the matter of nursing home care and to increase the payment per day from $2, which was the figure set in 1952, to $3.50, an increase of $1.50. We do not believe by any means that that is all that is required. But we are impressed with the Government's argument that the Bill is in effect an interim measure. This goes at least some of the way towards meeting the additional costs involved in the operation of these institutions. These additional costs I understand are brought about primarily by increased wages, having regard to the 48 per cent wage increase claim by nurses. 
In my State of New South Wales, there are 600 private hospitals and nursing homes of the type dealt with in the Bill. They provide accommodation for some 21,000 patients, approximately half the total number of patients catered for in that State. Many of the patients in these nursing homes are the parents or relatives of wage earners who are incapable of paying more than the $10 a week that they are paying already. As I say, the increase in this Bill goes at least some way towards meeting the situation. 
We will not support the whole amendment proposed by the Opposition although we will support part of it. We shall ask that the propositions contained in the amendment submitted by the Opposition be voted on seriatim. We support the first part of the amendment which asks the Senate to express the opinion that:  the Commonwealth nursing home policy is unsatisfactory because of: 
its costliness to patients and their families, and 
an inadequate provision of alternative forms of accommodation and domiciliary services 
We do not agree with and will not support the remainder of the Opposition's amendment as we see it. To do so would negate the whole position of the Opposition which in the final analysis is to support the Bill, not to oppose it. The third proposition submitted in the Labor Party's amendment is one that we in no circumstances could support. That is the one that seeks to provide pharmaceutical benefits at no cost to the patient. I understand that the cost to the Commonwealth of adopting this proposal would be $24m. This amount would have been taken into account as part of the Budget, but when the Opposition moved its amendments during the debate on the Budget at no stage did it indicate that it intended to move a motion of this kind. As I see it, to move the amendment now is an act of irresponsibility. I suggest that even our enemies would have to admit that whatever the Democratic Labor Party might do, it will always act responsibly. We intend to do so on this occasion. 
The provision of free pharmaceutical benefits is in line with general socialist thinking, which is to provide free benefits for everybody. On this subject I feel that it is well to look at the remarks of  Dr Colin  Clark, a very renowned economist, who in writing an article 'Financing Social Services' for the 'Institute of Public Affairs Review' gave a message which it would be well for us all to consider.  Dr Clark  states: 
Every family with young children has some kind of a Christmas ceremony. The whole idea is that there should be presents for everybody. 
This idea has its attractions in politics too. Nobody shoots Father Christmas' has become a favourite slogan. 
But what would the family think if, shortly after the distribution of Christmas presents, the head of the family went around to assess each of them for their share of the cost of the presents, plus a substantial remuneration for himself as administrator? For this is exactly what Father Christmas politicians do. To say that such a man would be regarded with contempt is too mild a word. And this is the sentiment which the ordinary man, who has to pay taxes, is coming to feel for both political parties, who promise 'something for everyone', with the object of winning the next election. 

 Dr Clark continues, and I agree with what he says: 
There can be no compromise on this question. The 'something for everyone' principle in politics must be discredited and abandoned, completely and without qualification, before it reduces the country to economic ruin and, as it well may, degrades and destroys the whole principle of democratic government. 
To say that governments have money to spend surely is utter nonsense. Governments spend the taxpayers' money. If we were to give social service benefits to everybody, as has been said it would involve a taxation structure that would destroy the economy of the nation. 
As I said earlier, we agree with the decision of the Government in respect of pharmaceutical benefits. We agree that the Government has gone part of the way towards meeting the needs with regard to nursing homes. For those reasons, and because the Bill is an interim measure, we are prepared to support it. We reject the Opposition's amendment, except for the first proposition, on the grounds I have outlined. We ask, therefore, that the proposals contained in the amendment be voted on seriatim and in the order that I have suggested. Having said that, I commend to the Senate the passing of the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
What unions have demanded the right to place persons in employment in naval dockyards without management having an.y right of decision in such matters? 
Are any officials of these unions members of the Communist Parlies of Australia? 
What will be done to ensure the expeditious building in Australian shipyards of the six light destroyers planned for the Royal Australian Navy? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he is aware of allegations published in the Melbourne paper 'News Weekly' of 20th October 1971 that the Soviet Ambassador to Australia,  Mr Nicolai  Mesiatsev, has personally tried- 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs any knowledge of the allegation that on 17th February 1971,  Mr V.  E. Tulayev, the second secretary of the consular section of the Soviet Embassy in Canberra, personally led a party of men to a home in Auburn, Sydney, and sought by great psychological pressure to persuade  Dr Soloviev,  a defector, to return to the Soviet Union? Is it true that Soviet diplomatic personnel need the Government's permission to travel outside a 40-mile radius of Canberra? Did  Mr Tulayev  seek such permission to travel to Sydney in February this year? If so, what reason did he give for his visit, the purpose of which, if this allegation is true, would appear to have no connection whatsoever with normal diplomatic business? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs detail the occasions on which the Cambodian Government has made requests to Australia for assistance in the development of its army, including assistance with training? fs it not true to say that these requests preceded America's interest in the subject? 
I wish to move the amendment foreshadowed by my colleague.  Senator Little.  Accordingly, I move: 
At end of motion add ', but the Senate is of the opinion that emergent and on-going financial assistance to woolgrowers and other primary producers adversely affected by the grave recession in the rural industries should be made available through a special finance authority providing finance on long-term and at discounted interest rates with interest and  redemption-free  periods thus providing moratorium like protection to existing borrowers, such authority to be appropriately structured in capital and lo be created to operate immediately'. 
I do not propose to speak at length. 1 understand that it is desired to dispose of this Bill before the suspension of the sitting for dinner. This afternoon I was quite interested to hear the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  talk about the Government's proposal for a rural insurance finance corporation. This reminds me that that proposal was submitted by the former Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  during the Senate election campaign last year. This is the first we have heard of that corporation since that time. It is our attitude that there is insufficient private finance available to meet the needs of industry. We proposed during the Senate election campaign and we reiterate now that the only body capable of providing the finance to meet the needs of the rural people today is the Commonwealth Government. I think honourable senators will recall that towards the closing days of the last session 1 moved an amendment to a Bil] to provide for the establishment of a rural finance corporation which would make available long term low interest loans to rural people. This corporation would be structured to provide for an interest free non-redemption period foi loans which it would fund. In other words the corporation would fund existing rural debts and refinance them with this moratorium like period. 
At that time some honourable senators seemed to be of the opinion that had we not used certain words in that amendment perhaps they could have supported it. We hope that the amendment now before the Senate will do 2 things: We hope that it will meet the needs of those honourable senators who have some objection to the words used in the previous amendment and that it will establish the principle of what might be termed a 'new agricultural bank' to meet the needs of rural industries today. I commend the amendment to the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is Tharunka, the student journal of the University of New South Wales, registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a periodical? 
Is the Postmaster-General aware of the pornographic content of this periodical, particularly the issue of 28th July 1971; if so, does he propose to withdraw permission for transmission of this journal by post under category B? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
How many escort vessels are presently available for service in the Royal Australian Navy? 
What is the anticipated Royal Australian Navy escort vessel strength for each yearto 1985, making due allowance for refitting and obsolescence of presently available ships? 
 I refer to my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science on 13th October 1971 which concerned the New South Wales University student journal Tharunka' and associated publications such as the notorious 'Sex Manual'. 1 ask whether the Minister has yet ascertained whether any University moneys helped to pay for these publications. Can the Minister inform the Senate on the matter? 
 No, it is not on notice. 
I rise to indicate my Party's attitude to this Bill. As we see the position, the Government had 2 alternatives. One was to continue the bounty until 1974, as  Senator Cant  has suggested on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. The other was to do as the Government has done, namely, to opt for the payment of compensation in a lump sum. I note that the current Tariff Board report refers to the fact that in 1965 it was of the opinion that the bounty legislation ought not to be continued. As I see the position, the Board was asked by the Government to make recommendations on how the Government could fulfil its obligations. The report states: 
The Board therefore considers that the Government could fulfil its . outstanding obligations by continuing the present bounty arrangement until 1974. 
The alternative, which the Board has recommended, is for the Government to discharge its obligations by making  a  lump sum payment of compensation.  Senator Cant  says that the industry expected to receive protection until 1974. If that was so, we would have expected some representations to have been made on this matter by the industry. As they have not been made, it seems to me that the industry is quite happy with what the Government proposes. I indicate that the members of the Democratic Labor Party will vote for the Bill as it stands. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry why 8,000 bales of wool were offered for sale by tender in the week ending 12th 
November 1971. Why were they not offered for sale by public auction? Why were not these offerings guaranteed by the Australian Wool Commission as to type and micron? What quantity was sold and by whom? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. I ask: Firstly, will he name the Australian Broadcasting Commission employee who is claimed to be a former fellow student of draft resister Matteson and who issued the invitation for the latter to appear on an ABC television programme on Tuesday, 16th November? Secondly, who in turn authorised this employee to invite Matteson, for wham the Commonwealth Police have an arrest warrant, to make this television appearance? Thirdly, when can I expect an answer to my question of 18th August and 15th September concerning the alleged activities of  Mr Jon  (Darce) Cassidy, a special projects officer with the ABC, with the WorkerStudent Alliance? 
In stating the altitude of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to the Bills before the Senate I say firstly that I listened very carefully to  Senator Bishop,  who led for the Opposition in this debate. I find that we are in complete agreement with many things that he said about the Billsbut that we do not agree with other things that he said. We find that we have nothing in common with what  Senator Georges  said.  Senator Bishop  dealt in some detail with petrol tax. As wesee it,histax is perhaps one of the most unfortunate aspects of the present Budget. Its effect on food prices could be disastrous. The truth is that transport is at the root of the economy and petrol tax - a transport tax - is in fact a growthtax in reverse. By the lime that an item of food reaches the consumer it might have passed through a dozen processes, all of which involve transport.It is conceivable, therefore, that bythe end of this year we might find that the humble loaf of bread has risen in price by about 3c. The effect of this tax on housing could be amazing. 
I refer now to the real point at issue, that is, what my Party will do about this Bill. The Opposition has said that for it's members this is a fundamental issue and that they propose to vote against it. Whilst we agree with many of the things that Opposition senators have said on many aspects relating to the economy and the Government's approach to this important question, our view is that although mistakes in economic matters may be uncomfortable they certainly can be remedied, whereas mistakes in matters of defence and foreign policy involve the life or death of a nation. Because of that and because of the altitude of the Opposition to the matters of defence and foreign affairs we are not prepared to use the measures now before the Senate as a means of defeating the Government. 
The time may come when the attitudes of the Government and the Opposition in thematter of foreign affairs are indistinguishable. If and when that day comes our attitude will have to change. But at present, while the Opposition maintains its present attitude on defence and foreign affairs, and while it devotes, as it does, so much of its time to trying to devise ways and means of bringing about the legalisation of abortion and homosexuality, we will not be prepared to defeat the Government. This is the attitude of the Democratic Labor Party to these Bills. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Does cancellation of plans for the building of a new post office at Haberfield New South Wales, the removal of the teleprinter there, and the downgrading of the office by removing at least 2 staff, mean that the Government is committed to its ultimate closing. 
Is the Postmaster-General's Department committed  to a  policy of centralisation with Leichhardt  as  the District's Regional Centre. 
Does the Department own a large area of land suitable  for a  new post office at Haberfield,  and  would the building of a regional centre  at  Leichhardt require the acquisition of land at  a  considerable price. 
My question also is addressed to the Leader of the Government. Is the Government giving consideration to the establishment of a rural finance corporation to provide long term, low interest rural loans, as the Australian Democratic Labor Party has repeatedly proposed and the Government has consistently opposed in this place? Is it a fact that the Government is giving consideration also to having the Commonwealth vacate the field of estate duty, as proposed repeatedly but to date unsuccessfully by the Democratic Labor Party in this place? 
 I rise to indicate the altitude of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Wilkinson.  I want to say at the outset that the introduction of an acquisition scheme in the wool industry is the policy of my Party. As it is the policy of my Party, my colleagues and I are committed to supporting the Opposition's amendment, which is what we will do. However, I am sorry that the amendment does not go further. What I would have liked to have seen, and T would seek to bring it about by a further amendment except it would only complicate things at this stage - is for the amendment to urge the Commonwealth to establish a national rural finance corporation, so structured as to provide long term, low interest rural loans and to fund and re-finance rural debts. 1 do not think there is anything more important for rural people today than the establishment of such a national rural finance corporation. I remind the Senate that on 2 occasions this year the Democratic Labor Party has moved in this chamber for the establishment of such a corporation but, to the amazement of my Party, the Country Party of Australia, whose platform contains such a proposition, has on each occasions found reasons why it ought to vote against it. I do sot propose to say any more except that 1 am sorry that the amendment moved by the Opposition does not contain a proposal of the nature of the one I have just outlined. 
The other thing I would like to mention - I think it is a tragedy that no reference has been made to it in the Labor amendment - is that the Commonwealth Government vacate entirely the field of probate duty. I do not propose to canvass that aspect any further. The Democratic Labor Party has argued this proposition on at least 4 occasions in this chamber. Nothing more could be said now than was said by my Party on those occasions. I regret that the amendment does not contain those propositions. Nevertheless, since my Party is committed to the policy of the introduction of a wool acquisition scheme, it will be voting for the amendment proposed by  Senator Wilkinson. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is the Minister considering proposals for changes to the 
Navigation Act? Do some of these proposed changes relate to discipline on ships and the handling of disputes between crew and master? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Why is the bulk of Commonwealth advertising in Australia, and that of Government instrumentalities, handled by advertising agencies which are wholly foreign-owned, when there are more Australian-owned resident agencies than foreign-owned. 
Is membership of the Commonwealth Advertising Council monopolised by persons who are heads of wholly foreign-owned agencies. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts has furnished the following reply: 
The Commonwealth Advertising Council has advised that, during the year ended 30th June 1971, approximately 72 per cent of disbursements to agencies in respect of advertising placed by Commonwealth departments through the Council organisation went to wholly Australian-owned agencies. 
A high proportion of the advertising released in Australia by statutory authorities of the Commonwealth is not placed through the Council organisation and there is no central record of disbursements to advertising agencies which provide services for such authorities. 
No. See answer to Question 1209. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice:  (!) Is the Minister aware of the statement by Professor J. Auchmuty, Chairman of the Australian Vice-Chancellors' Committee, reported in the press of 28th September 1971, that a significant amount of student union fees collected by universities are being used for semi-political, non-university purposes. 
Are Commonwealth funds paid to university student unions on behalf of the holders of Commonwealth scholarships; if so, will the Minister take steps to have the Joint Committee of Public Accounts investigate the use of public moneys for such non-academic purposes. 

 Senator WRIGHT - The Minister for Education and Science has provided the following answer to tthe honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
The benefits paid under the Commonwealth University Scholarship Scheme include all compulsory fees, comprising tuition fees and other statutory fees levied by the universities. These fees include student union fees and are paid direct to the universities on behalf of each student who holds a Commonwealth University Scholarship. 
Student union fees are collected by the universities from all students, not only those who hold scholarships. They are made available through the normal administrative processes of the universities to the student associations. If conditions are to be (imposed on the use of these funds, then it is a matter for the universites to determine what the conditions should be. 
The Joint Committee on Public Accounts is empowered to investigate matters referred to it by either House. It is for the Committee to decide whether the issues raised should be the subject of an inquiry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister any knowledge of an allegation that on 17th February 1971  Mr V.  E. Tulayev, Second Secretary of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics Embassy in Canberra, led a party of men to a home in Auburn, Sydney, and sought, by great psychological pressure, to persuade a defector,  Dr Soloviev,  to return to the Soviet Union. 
Do Soviet diplomatic personnel require Government permission to travel beyond a 40 mile radius of Canberra. 
Did  Mr Tulayev  seek permission to travel to Sydney in February this year; if so, what reason was given for this visit. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
On which occasions did the Cambodian Government make requests to Australia for assistance in the development of its army, including assistance with training. 
Is it correct to say that these requests preceded the United States interest on the subject. 

 Senator WRIGHT - The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
The Cambodian Government made its first request for international military aid in a broadcast appeal by the Cambodian Prime Minister on 14th April 1970. This general request was followed up 2 days later by a specific request to Australia through the Australian Ambassador in Phnom Penh. Since that time there have been al least 6 further occasions in 1970 and 1971 on which the Cambodian Government has made known to Australia its interest in receiving particular forms of military assistance, including assistance with training. 
The initial request by Cambodia to Australia preceded the first United States approach to us on the question of training assistance for Cambodian forces. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Are 88.5 per cent of Australians now living in cities, and is Australia now the world's most urbanised society. 
Has the Government ever considered the advisability of providing a taxation incentive to encourage industries to decentralise. 

 Senator COTTON - The Minister for National Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Preliminary data based upon the 1971 census indicate that 60.1 per cent of Australians live in Darwin and Canberra and the State's Capital cities. It is only when the number of people living in all urban areas, down to a size of approximately 1.000 persons, are included, that the figure of population concentration approaches 88.5 per cent. 
It is not known whether Australia is the world's most urbanised society,, but there is little doubt that it must rank high amongst the countries of the world. 
Taxation concessions have been considered on many occasions by the Commonwealth and. in fact, have been provided to assist non-urban industries. 1 refer to those provided to the primary producing, mining and forestry industries. The zone allowances available to individuals in remote areas of Australia also assist industries in recruiting and retaining employees. 
I must point out however, that decentralisation is primarily the responsibility of the State Governments, but the Commonwealth Government has taken an active interest in the subject'. One example is the formation of the Commonwealth/States Committee of officers which has been working on decentralisation matters for some time. The possible provision of taxation concessions is one of the many items which has been considered by the Committee. 
The report of this Committee is nearing completion and in due course will be considered by the governments concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is the Minister currently prepared to report on Australian Defence needs over the next 10 years with particular regard for the need to have a credible naval force for service in the Indian Ocean in that period. 
Is it a fact that naval experts have submitted a plan for such a naval force, the estimated cost of which is $l,200m over 10 years. 
Did the Government reject this plan on the grounds that an increase in current annual defence expenditure of $ 1,400m by a further $l20m would not be within Australia's economic capacity. 
Was $2,000m spent in Australia in 1970-71 on gambling and alcohol, that is, more than the additional amount proposed to be spenton defence over the next 10 years. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: (1), (2) and (3) As the Minister for Defence stated in the House of Representatives on 7th December 1971 it is expected that it will be possible to bring forward a White Paper on defence this session and this would discuss, amongst other things, requirements of the Royal Australian Navy. In this regard also  1  would refer the honourable senator to the statement made by the Prime Minister on 27th January 1972 about the Government's consideration of the replacement of Royal Australian Navy destroyers. 
No decision has been made on the amount of defence expenditure over the next 10 years. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. I refer to my question No. 1300 of 22nd February 1972 and state that the Minister in his reply misinterpreted the purport of what I asked. I now ask: (1) Is the placement of the bulk of Commonwealth advertising made through 3 placing agencies? (2) Does the Commonwealth Advertising Council in turn delegate the actual creation of the advertising to a number of other agencies and pass on to these latter agencies a proportion of the profits earned from the replacement of advertisements? (3) Will the Minister name the agencies that participated during the last fiscal year in the disbursement of these profits and what were the profits received by each individual agency? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. Is it a fact that a publication known as the 'Little Red School Book', the admitted aim of which is to promote the overthrow of the present system and to enlist and train the children in doing so, has been released by the Department of Customs and Excise? Is it a fact that the 'Little Red School Book' asa first step in preparing the child for enlistment in revolutionary activities sets out to undermine respect for every form of traditional and accepted authority - the authority of those who wield power in politics, industry and education; the authority of parents and teachers; the authority of the inherited Christian norms of western civilisation? Is it true that in a section on sex in which all restraint is abandoned and the crudest language used the child reader is told that pornography is a harmless pleasure? Is it a fact that the publication has been outlawed in both Britain and France? Is it also a fact that already one students' representative council in Australia plans to publish and distribute the booklet? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether it is a fact that on a television programme on 28th March 1972 on Channel 10, Sydney, called 'High Society' a person who was identified as a drug pusher was interviewed with his back to the camera. If this is so, will the Minister endeavour to ascertain the identity of this gentleman so that he may be apprehended and charged? 
My question is directed to the Acting Postmaster-General. It is supplementary to a question asked earlier by  Senator Gair  about 'The Great Debate on Education'. Was the director of 'The Great Debate on Education' a  Mr Tom  Manefield from the British Broadcasting Corporation? Is the Australian Broadcasting Commission paying the BBC $10,000 for the loan of  Mr Manefield? 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  President,  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department, Central Administration Board's Policy of recentralising and concentrating certain staffs, under what is called the Area Management Project, to the great detriment of the economics of the towns and related rural areas, and to the detriment of the overall morale, efficiency and independence of the Australian Post Office is against the public interest and should be made the subject of special investigation by the Senate's Social Environment Committee and by the Senate's Finance and Government Operations Standing Committee. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to refer the above matters to the two committees of the Senate referred to, and in the meantime will order that: 
There will be no transfers of persons, areas of authority or operations under the Area Management Project; and, 
No further appointments to positions under Area Managers or above them in the State Administrations or Central Administration of the Australian Post Office until the two committees of the Senate have investigated the matters and reported to the Senate and the Government. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Similar petitions were presented by  Senator McManus  and  Senator Little. 
Petitions severally received. 
T address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, ls the Minister aware that at the February 1972 council meeting of the Australian Union of Students, its  president Mr K.  Newcombe stated that an organisation called the Radical Action Movement controlled the copyright of 'The Little Red Schoolbook'? ls it true that the Radical Action Movement, when originally founded, was known as the Students for a Democratic Society got off further true that the meeting at which the Students for a Democratic Society got off the ground was held at 6.30 p.m. on Sunday, 23rd November 1969, at the Newport Victoria, home of  Mr L.  Carmichael of the National Committee of the Communist Party of Australia? ls it a fact that the only so-called protest group which is specifically recommended by name to Victorian schoolchildren in 'The Little Red Schoolbook' is a body called the Radical Action Movement of 57 Palmerston Street, Carlton, Victoria? Would the Minister agree that, if these facts are true, they prove beyond doubt official Communist associations with The Little Red Schoolbook'? 
I move: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until tomorrow at 2.55 p.m. 
I do so for the purpose of enabling a debate on a matter of urgency, namely: 
The need to initiate immediately such legislative and administrative measures, either alone or in co-operation with the States, as will impede, delay or prevent the transfer of the beneficial ownership of shares in Australian public companies to non-Australian ownership, until the report of the Senate select committee appointed to enquire into foreign ownership and control of Australian commerce, industries, land and resources, has been presented, or, alternately, until the Government has announced the terms on which and the conditions under which equity in Australian public companies may be acquired by non-Australian interests. 
The purpose of the motion is clear. Firstly, it seeks Government action to secure an interim freeze on all company takeovers involving foreign capital until either the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control presents its report or the Government has announced the terms on which, and the condition under which, equity in Australian public companies may be acquired by non-Australian interests. The public concern about the whole question of takeovers, including foreign ones, has been stirred, firstly, by the recent Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd bid to take over Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and, secondly, by the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation's bid to take over certain Australian food industries. As the Australian Democratic Labor Party sees it there is a real danger that, unless a freeze is imposed pending Government action, foreign firms and corporations will endeavour to achieve substantial holdings in Australia before action is taken to prevent them doing so. In other words, by the time the stable door is closed the horse could well have bolted. 
If I may, I wish to refer to the Canadian experience, lt will be recalled that Canada first became interested in the inroads of foreign investment back in 1957, as a result of a royal commission on Canada's economic prospects. Over the next 15 years little if anything happened. Finally a report known as the Grey Report was given to the Canadian Government. I wish to quote briefly from that report. Firstly, in its opening lines the report states: 
The high and growing degree of foreign, and particularly US, control of Canadian business activities has led to a Canadian industrial structure which largely reflects the growth priorities of foreign corporations. 
It goes on to state: 
These developments have made it more difficult for the Government to control the domestic national economic environment. They have also influenced the development of the social, cultural and political environment in Canada. 
The interests through which international business exercises its power are known as the multi-national enterprises or the MNE. An example of this is the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation's actions of recent fame. It will be recalled that at a recent Senate inquiry in the United States it was revealed that this giant conglomerate first of all set out to try to prevent the election of the Allende Government in Chile. Let me say here and now that neither I nor any of my colleagues has any brief for the Allende Government - it is a Marxist Government. 
That is right. But let me say also that we have an even lesser brief for foreign companies which attempt to use their economic power to destroy governments. It seems to me that if the ITT were permitted to develop its bridgeheads here in Australia to dangerous proportions, which it could well do, there would be no guarantee that it would not attempt to do in Australia what it attempted to do in Chile. Let me remind honourable senators that, first of all, ITT attempted to prevent the election of the Allende Government - although we do not like that type of government, nevertheless it was democratically elected - and, having failed to prevent that Government's election ITT set out then to destroy the Chilean economy as a means of destroying that Government. So I say that the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation is a company with which Australia ought to be well concerned. 
Let me now .turn briefly to a further section of the Gray report, which reads as follows: 
The book value of US foreign direct investment increased from approximately $7.5 billion in 1929 to S70.8 billion in 1969. Sixty-two of the top 100 US corporations have production facilities in at least six foreign countries and 71 of the top 126 industrial corporations for which information is available are reported to have one-third of their employment abroad, lt is estimated that about 80 per cent of all US foreign direct investment is accounted for by some 200 firms (e.g. General Motors, Chrysler, Ford, Singer, Esso, ITT etc.). About 100 non-US firms comprise the major  MNEs  of the rest of the world (e.g. Nestle, Shell, Lever Brothers etc.) 
The report further states: 
Even on the basis of very conservative estimates it  seems  clear that  MNEs  will continue to grow and become increasingly powerful institutions. It is estimated by one observer that the annual value of output in foreign markets by  MNEs  will rise from the present level of about $300 billion to over $2,000 billion by 1990 and account for half the free world GNP, compared with some 15 per cent in 1969. The worlds economy will be dominated by 300 or 400 super  MNEs.  It will not be unusual for an  MNE  to have one million employees. 
Finally, I think the following is worth quoting from the report: 
There is another point worth noting in this connection. If  MNEs  were to develop to the point where they become the major organisers of production in the world, they would undoubtedly be  a  major power. But power responsible to whom? At the moment this power is wielded largely by national governments responsible to their electorates. In  a  world dominated by large and powerful  MNEs  to whom would non-elected boards and management of multi-national enterprises be responsible? 
It is for these reasons that we urge the adoption of the motion before the Senate. As I said earlier, unless the stable door is closed we feel that the horse may well have bolted by the time the Government does come down with its decision on this matter. 
I would like to refer very briefly to the Concrete Industries (Monier) Ltd $ 18.6m takeover offer only last week for Rocla Concrete Pipes Ltd. As honourable senators will know, Rocla Ltd manufactures concrete pipes. Concrete Industries (Monier) Ltd is 49.9 per cent owned by Redland Holdings of the United Kingdom. If successful this bid will result in Redland Holdings of the United Kingdom owning 41 per cent of the new company. This is more than sufficient to maintain a controlling interest. At present Rocla is 97.5 per cent Australian owned and has interests in Britain and South Africa. This company is in the forefront of technology in the concrete pipe industry. Rocla processes are used under licence in more than 20 countries, including Canada, France, Holland, Italy, Japan, West Germany, the United States and Hungary. There appear to be 2 reasons for the proposed takeover; firstly, to gain access to Rocla's pipemaking technology, and secondly, to circumvent possible tougher legislation on restricted trade practices which is now under review by the Government. 
It seems to me that in the case of the threatened takeover by ITT of Australian Frozen Food Industries Ltd, the Government could assist Australian Frozen Food Industries by means of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. As I understand the position the AIDC was established to help maintain Australian equity in Australian enterprises. The only departure from existing AIDC policy would be that the Corporation would be assisting an industry already developed instead of one being developed. As I see it, the AIDC has been largely inactive since its inception in October 1970. I understand that it currently holds S3 3m of the taxpayers' money for purposes of fostering and developing ownership in Australian industry. I think that the AIDC could well be invoked to assist Australian Frozen Food Industries at this time. 
I commend my proposal to the Senate. I believe it is appropriate at this time to take legislative action, as suggested in my proposal, either alone or in co-operation with the States so as to impede, delay or prevent the transfer of the beneficial ownership of shares in Australian public companies to non-Australian ownership until the report of the Senate Committee has been presented, or alternatively until such time as the Government lays down conditions under which equity in Australian public companies may be acquired by nonAustralian interests. For those reasons I commend the proposal to the Senate. 
I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General: ls it a fact that a news item concerning the. death of a youth who jumped into a bear pit at South Perth Zoo was telecast by TVW7 Perth on 24th April 1972 and that a still shot was shown of the bears actually savaging the head of the victim? Apart from offending against good taste, could the presentation of this item be justified in view of the attending sorrow which must have been imposed on relatives and friends of this unfortunate young man? Has any action been taken by the PostmasterGeneral to ensure that viewers will not be subject to such telecasts in future? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. Did a Melbourne businessman,  Mr Strecho  Rover, recently have his passport seized in Canada on instructions from the Department of Immigration? If so, can the Minister give the reasons for such action? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether  Mr Andrew  Farran, a former private secretary to the Minister for Foreign Affairs when  Mr Freeth  held that portfolio, is the author of an article entitled 'The Freeth Experiment' published in the 'Australian Outlook', the journal of the Australian Institute of International Affairs. Did  Mr Farran  have any part in drafting the Freeth statement, often referred to as the soft-on-Russia statement of August 1969? Is his defence of the Freeth statement an essay in selfjustification? Finally, is the supply of arms by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to North Vietnam, without which the invasion of South Vietnam could not have taken place, a good example of the benefits we could hope to enjoy as a result of our association with the Soviet Union? 
I am sorry. In referring to the metal trades federation I should have said $3m. In the case of the 3 groups which I repeat - the metal trades, the building trades and the maritime unions - they would have a membership of about 367,000 and an annual income of over $8m. 
.1 have a copy of that motion in my office, f will tell  Senator Bishop  what  Mr Maynes  moved. Now if the Labor Party had an alternative proposal to offer on the matter of industrial relations we could look at it. 
r  have not seen it. 
Since  Senator Murphy  has dealt at some length with what he refers to as the rights of unionists, maybe it is appropriate that in stating my part of the case of the Australian Democratic Labor Party I should outline the principles upon which we would judge this legislation. We recall that after the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  had announced, in a ministerial statement, his proposals in regard to amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act the DLP fairly widely circulated a document containing those principles. It seems appropriate that 1 begin by recalling those principles. They are as follows: Firstly, the system of conciliation and arbitration cannot practically be replaced as the characteristic Australian method of industrial organisation. The system involves the existence of sanctions as a weapon of the last resort. Secondly, union organisation, as such, should not be weakened by legislation not merely because it is an expression of the basic rights of wage earners but because it is the necessary foundation of the conciliation and arbitration system. Thirdly, the legitimacy of authority within the trade union necessarily requires voting procedures which safeguard the democratic rights and proprietary interests of individual members in their unions. Fourthly, monopoly power within the unions should be resisted, as it should be in every other aspect of national life, especially when it is sought and used for subversive purposes. 
As we see the position, the Bill can be divided into 4 fields: Firstly, matters related to the constitutional position of unions concerning questions which could, in the case of a number of unions, go to their very existence; secondly, the rights of rank and file unionists within the unions; thirdly, amendments to the structure and procedure of the conciliation and arbitration system; fourthly, the question of sanctions and the responsibility of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
In applying the criteria of the Democratic Labor Party to the Bill it will be seen that the DLP is not enamoured of a number of the Bill's proposals. However, to the extent that the Bill does promote measures to assist in preserving unions from the constitutional challenges of the Moore v. Doyle case, and to the extent that the Bill gives effect to a number of our views in preserving and promoting the rights of union members within their institutions, we consider that it should not be rejected. The DLP will vote for the Bill. As we see it, the measures referred to go a certain way along the road towards preserving and promoting the Australian arbitration system which for almost 7 decades has assisted the Australian wage earner and the Australian trade union movement. Indeed, the Australian arbitration system has been the envy of the Western world. The DLP shares the following view expressed by the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in his 1 97 1 report to the Parliament:  1 feel it is my duty to report my strong opinion, based on my experience as a Judge of the old Court and as President of this Commission for its first IS years, that in the long term a reduction in strikes can only be brought about by an improvement in industrial relationships, and that m is is far more likely to arise from changed altitudes of the organised employers on the one hand and the organised trade union movement on the other hand than from mere changes in Acts of Parliament. 
If the honourable senator will wait a minute he will be able to hear what I have to say. He will not have to wait very long. Thus the premise upon which the DLP bases its approach to the system of conciliation and arbitration is that the structure and procedures of any institution, including this institution, can and must be improved from time Vo time. But the essential ingredient for a successful conciliation and arbitration system is that the people who are involved in it are intent upon making it work. Thus, if within the system there are sizeable groups with vested interests who are out to destroy it, no amount of change will be effective unless these disruptive designs are recognised, exposed and frustrated. 
In the last 2 or 3 years there has been much debate about the relevance of the conciliation and arbitration system now and in the future. This debate was not raginc some 7 years ago when a major union affiliated with the Australian Council of Trade Unions placed on the Congress agenda paper an item which said, amongst other things: 
Congress expresses the belief that the stage has been reached when all sections of the community, and particularly the  Government,  employers and trade unions must decide whether the long established system of conciliation and arbitration is to be allowed to be destroyed. 
The item went on to state:  lt points out that for decades the Communist Party has, for its own political reasons, waged a constant and increasingly intensive campaign against the arbitration system. In more recent years this campaign has been aided: By certain employers, by their increasing tendency in many industries to refuse to genuinely negotiate, thus making arbitration a first instead of a last resort;  . . By some government agencies and arbitration tribunals, by allowing a situation to develop which creates an increasing belief that decisions of certain tribunals can be influenced by factors other than the public case presented ... By certain unions, in failing to objectively acknowledge the many benefits which have accrued to the vast majority of wage earners as a result of this system; And by unduly highlighting the outcome of strikes and strike action, and neglecting :he positive gains achieved by conciliation and arbitration. 
The proposal went on to state: 
Congress points out that the vast majority of wage earners are dependent upon the conciliation and arbitration system and the work of unions operating within the system, for the establishment, maintenance and improvement of minimum wages and conditions. 
The Australian arbitration system Ls traditional to Australia. While it is full of imperfections, nobody has succeeded in suggesting any real alternative. It might bc worthwhile to look for a moment at the remarks of Lord Balogh who was, as honourable senators know, the economic adviser to the Wilson Government. This is what he said in a book entitled 'Labor and Inflation': 
Free bargaining increased inequality; it resulted in a relative worsening of the position of the poorest paid and least aggressively organised classes of society . . . Trade Union action was successful in certain instances in increasing the shute of certain privileged or closely organised groups such as tally clerks, dock workers and so on. The tower paid, the defenceless and the handicapped, despite the declamation of the unions, have not been protected. 
The same point was made by J. H. Portus in his book 'Australian Compulsory Arbitration 1900-1970'. Portus suggested in guarded terms that one major consequence of the Australian system has been to ensure that, compared to the United States of America, members of weak unions and workers who are not members of unions have received a fairer share of the cake than they would have otherwise. The truth is that the vast majority of wage earners and salary earners in Australia are dependent upon the decisions, or have been dependent upon the decisions, of the actuarial tribunals to establish the levels of their income and working conditions. In recent years the myth has grown up that the minority of wage earners represented in the metal trades, the building trades and the transport industry are in fact typical and representative of the position of the work force in Australia. The fact is, however, that in common with the United Kingdom, Europe and the United States the work force has undergone a considerable change. In the last 2 decades and particularly the last 10 years the Australian work force has been subject to considerable change. As my colleague  Senator Little  pointed out yesterday, the white collar section of the work force already exceeds workers in the blue collar field. Moreover, within 3 or 4 years. 40 per cent of the entire work force will be females and the majority of them will be married women. 
Direct bargaining cannot replace the system of conciliation and arbitration. It certainly has its place as part of the system but it is not a substitute for the system. Those who set out to destroy the arbitration system are at best motivated by avarice and self-interest, be they employers who enjoy the protection of high tariff barriers or the more privileged sections of the work force who would throw overboard the principles upon which the trade union movement was founded and also the concept of the Higgins award, the basic wage and other measures designed to improve the lot of the lower paid wage earner. On the trade union side and within the labour movement generally over the last 30 years there has been a persistent campai'gn to take every opportunity to smash the system of conciliation and arbitration which we enjoy in Australia. In 1942 and again in 1959 the booklet The Trade Unions' was published by the then national secretary of the Communist Party of Australia,  Mr L.  L. Sharkey. He said:  lt will at once be seen that Arbitration is detrimental to the development of a class struggle, and class consciousness and of that genuine and fundamental solidarity and perfected organisation necessary to the revolutionary struggle for Socialism. 
He went on to say: 
We fight against this Arbitration. 
On 29th January 1969 when the current Communist Party Secretary,  Mr L.  Aarons, announced the confrontation policy he expressed the view that it was within his Party's power to challenge the whole system of conciliation and arbitration in Australia. He announced a strategy which culminated in the O'Shea incident over penal powers. He said that by pursuing this policy a new stage of industrial struggle may emerge in which the arbitration system itself is challenged. Representatives of his 
Party within the trade union movement who are characterised by  Mr L.  Carmichael of the Amalgamated Engineering Union likewise publicly indicated that they were out to destroy the system. They want to smash the arbitration system and replace it, not with something which would be better and improve workers' wages and conditions, but with something which is more conductive to the politicalisation of the trade union movement. There can be no doubt that the objective of the Communist Parties in Australia is the destruction of the arbitration system. At this point I am reminded to make some reference to the amalgamation of unions, particularly those in the metal trades industry. Subsequently I propose to deal in a little more detail with this matter. But at the present time I want to touch on it. I think it is worth remembering, first of all, that the purpose of the amalgamation of these unions in the metal trades is not to further the interests of the workers in this field but, primarily, to extend the political power of those unions. 
We have said before and I repeat now that once this power is allowed to be concentrated in the hands of those people they will seek to use it for the purpose of destroying the arbitration system. It is worth recalling that their membership will be in the vicinity of 200,000. They will have an income of about $8m a year and, I think, about 84 full time officials. The next group of unions in the amalgamation process is that in the building trades group. All the building trades unions would be joined together in one gigantic monolith. The third group is the maritime unions. In these 3 groups there would be a membership of about 367,000 and an income in excess of $8m a year. It might be worth looking at the type of leadership which we could expect from these unions. 
I do not know whether the Minister said that. If he did, that is his business. If  Senator Bishop  feels - as no doubt he does feel - that it is in the interests of the trade union movement that these unnecessary and, in many cases, undemocratic amalgamations take place he is entitled to support that viewpoint. But it is worth looking at the type of leadership which we are likely to get from these unions. I shall make a brief reference to the building trades group to which I have referred. No doubt one of the leading lights in that group would be a gentleman named Mundey who is Secretary of the Building Workers Industrial Union. It will be recalled that in 1970 this union was involved in strike action in New South Wales. This involved the destruction of private property. Mundey not only justified the use of this means but also he boasted of its success. What he had to say is to be found in the 'Left Review'. In referring to the destruction of private property Mundey said:  lt was this destruction of private property which struck fear to the very hearts of the employing class. 
He went on to say: 
If a relatively small union could successfully mount such an attack, what could be achieved by the more powerful unions. . . .'. 
What I am trying to say is that if  Senator Bishop  wants to see the concentration of this power in the hands of people who, from their own speeches and statements, show that they are aiming to destroy the arbitration system then he should be honest enough to say that he wants to see the destruction of the arbitration system. 
I can understand  Senator Bishop's  attitude. The Democratic Labor Party says that the Government stands condemned anyway for its failure to act as a government. Let us have no illusions about the position. Perhaps  Senator 
Bishop will declare his support for some of the matters that I am about to raise, ft is well known that for many years now the forces of disruption have been testing the moral courage of Austraiian governments. Australians are supposed to be a patriotic people. So what do the forces of disruption do? They burn the flag. They get away with it. Australians are supposed to have great respect for their war dead. So these forces desecrate Australian war memorials. Again no action is taken against those people. Australia is supposed to be a Christian country, at least nominally. So these forces mock the Crucifixion. They get away with that, too. Then maps of Vietnam are published showing the Australian Task Force area as enemy occupied territory. They got away with that, too. Then they attack the National Service Act. Then the attack on the arbitration system began. I notice that  Senator Bishop  is silent at this stage. 
There is a very good reason why the Labor Party wanted the debate adjourned. At this stage 1 would prefer not to say what the reason is.  Senator Bishop  knows and I think everybody will know very shortly. The Democratic Labor PaTty by no means agrees entirely with the proposals in the Bill. I referred earlier to the matter of union amalgamations. The Democratic Labor Party is not opposed in principle to amalgamation; but holds that no amalgamation should take place unless the majority of union members concerned want it. The Democratic Labor Party is not satisfied with the ballot system proposed in the Bill. The Bill provides that a ballot of more than half the members is necessary and that a majority of those voting in the ballot agree to the amalgamation before it can be effected. That means that 25 per cent of the membership plus one are required to vote for the amalgamation for it to be effective. The Democratic Labor Party believes that at least half the members plus one should have to vote positively for the amalgamation before it can be effected. But we are not the Government and the alternative is to have no laws at all governing situations. As I see it therefore the proposals in the Bill are the lesser evil. I do not for one moment believe that the best interests of the Australian trade union movement have been served by the recent amalgamation in the metal trades industry. 
I will give  Senator McLaren  detailed reasons shortly. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was dealing with the attitude of the Australian Democratic Labor Party towards the proposals contained in the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill with respect to union amalgamations. 1 had said that my colleagues and I in the DLP do not fully support the Government's proposals in the Bill concerning union amalgamations. Our view is that there should be a properly supervised ballot, that all of the members of the unions concerned ought to be entitled to vote in that properly supervised ballot and that a majority of the members should be required to vote affirmatively for amalgamation procedures in order for such an amalgamation to be effected. I had said also that we felt it was undemocratic, unfair and unjust that only the case for the amalgamation should be put to the union voters and not the case against it. The Democrati'c Labor Party believes that in fairness to the members of the union concerned no one side - either those favouring amalgamation or those opposing it - should have sole access to the union records and that if union money, effort or time is spent on a proposed amalgamation it ought to be spent equally between those proposing and those opposing the amalgamation. 
The Bill does provide for the supervision of ballots for amalgamations and it meets some of the requirements that the Democratic Labor Party feels should be met. However, my colleagues and I do not feel that the requirement that 50 per cent plus 1 of the total membership should vote before the ballot is valid and that in excess of half of that number should vote in favour of amalgamation procedures before the amalgamation can take place is sufficient. That means that only 25 per cent of the members would be required to vote affirmatively for an amalgamation before it could be proceeded with. But as I said earlier, the alternative is to have no laws governing amalgamation. 
A great deal has been said about the matter of sanctions. I wish to stale the Democratic Labor Party's attitude in this respect. In the field of sanctions there has been a great deal of debate not only between the Labor movement and the Government but also inside the Labor movement itself. Various proposals have received the support of the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  and the Australian Labor Party's shadow Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr Clyde  Cameron and they have met with various fates. Despite what might be said by the Australian Labor Party on this matter, I do not believe that any responsible person could argue with any degree of logic that agreements which have been reached should not carry with them a penalty for their breaching. Likewise, where voluntary arbitration is involved and there has been failure to reach the point of agreement, unless the arbitrator's view can be enforced by sanctions the whole thing would be completely unworkable. Sanctions must be the last resort in our system of compulsory arbitration, but they certainly must be used in the public interest. As the Democratic Labor Party sees it the community has the right to insist that some penalty should be accruing for breaches of an arbitrator's decision. 
In the course of the debate on Tuesday,  Senator Cavanagh  used as part of his argument against the proposals with respect to union amalgamations figures that had been quoted during the debate in the other place.  Senator Cavanagh  's argument, as I understood it, was that it was unreasonable to expect some unions to be able to muster the 50 per cent plus one required in order to make the amalgamation ballot a valid one. I was rather surprised to hear  Senator Cavanagh  argue that he felt that that was unfair and unjust towards the right wing unions. In some way or other his reading of the results gave him the impression that the right wing unions would have some difficulty in attaining the required voting number. I remind him that 53.7 per cent of the members voted in the last election conducted by the Federated Clerks Union of Australia in 1970; that in 1964, 59.4 per cent of the members voted; and that in 1961, 68.6 per cent of the members voted. It is true that there would be nowhere near the interest in a ballot in which there happens to be, say, 21 candidates for 20 positions as there would be in a ballot in which there are twice as many candidates as the number of positions to be filled. 
Another union which is so often referred to as a right wing union and which no doubt  Senator Cavanagh  will have some concern about is the Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia. Let me remind honourable senators of the voting pattern in elections conducted by that union in recent years. For instance, in the 1967 ballot for the election of officials the Port Kembla branch showed a return  of  55.23 per cent and the Victorian branch showed a return of 56.04 per cent. Federally the total was 51.07 per cent. The return showed by the other branches was: Newcastle, 53.17 per cent; Adelaide, 57.04 per cent; Queensland, 54.76 per cent and Port Kembla-Whyalla, 55.65 per cent. 
 That is true. It is also true to say that it was a properly supervised ballot. The ballot was supervised by the Commonwealth Electoral Office. I have no doubt that most honourable senators on the Opposition side of the chamber would have, at one time anyhow, supported the decision of a Labor government to introduce what have subsequently become known as court ballots. They are properly supervised ballots. They are ballots which one can be assured will be properly counted and in relation to which a fair and just result will be achieved. 1 do not propose to say any more than this: Firstly, despite all its faults and failings the conciliation and arbitration system is irreplaceable in this country; secondly, whilst collective bargaining can be a part of that system it can in  no  way replace it; and, thirdly, for the system to be effective it must involve the use of sanctions in the last resort. For those reasons and the others I have stated the Democratic Labor Party will be supporting the Bill. 
It was. 
The amalgamation of trade unions has not just mushroomed in this community, nor is it something of the 1970s only. It has been the continuing goal of the Labor movement. It has been accepted always that only through a strong industrial and political movement can the unions ever expect to get the benefits that they continually pursue for their members. I refer to benefits such as just and fair wages to enable an adequate way of life, compensation, long service leave, guaranteed employment and so forth. All these things have been a continuing goal for the Labor movement and the trade union movement. 
Early in the history of the Australian trade union movement it was appreciated that a lot of small unions, irrespective of how strong they might be, were working independently of one another, resulted only in the weakening of the Labor movement. Consequently, when attempts were made to amalgamate and form bigger unions and they failed, the Labor movement had to be satisfied with lesser confederations such as the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Officers and the Trades and Labour Councils in the respective States. 
History reveals that there is a pattern in the Australian trade movement whereby workers seek to belong to unions which have a membership of, say, 10,000 or more. Kenneth F. Walker, in his article Australian Industrial Relations Systems', said that in 1930 there were 28 unions which had a membership of 10,000 or more. We find that that number increased to 38 by 1950. In 1970 the number of unions with a membership of 10,000 or more had risen to 54. Another comparison is that in 1930 the proportion of workers in unions which had less than a membership of 2,000 was 14.7 per cent of the total workforce but in 1970 the percentage had dropped to 4.7. I claim that those figures represent conclusive proof and show a distinct pattern and a desire on the part of workers since 1930, and possibly before if I could have obtained the statistics, to belong to big unions and for unions to amalgamate. 
I want to refer now to the chronological order of the amalgamation of unions. In 1913 there were two great industrial leaders in Queensland, two trade unionists, who later were to play a major role in the political life of this country. I refer to Ted Theodore and Bill McCormack. Through their initiative and drive they brought about in 1913 the biggest amalgamation of any unions engaged in a common field or common industry. This field took in semi- skilled and unskilled workers. The amalgamated union became known as the Australian Workers Union. In all instances of ballots being taken to see whether union members required amalgamation or not, the ballots were carried overwhelmingly. 
In 1921 and 1922 the metal trades group carried a ballot for amalgamation but the matter was not proceeded with because the Amalgamated Engineering Union at that time was tied to the United Kingdom. A reading of trade union history shows that in the 1950s the boilermakers' union, the blacksmiths' union, and the sheet metal workers' union progressed a long way towards amalgamation. Their efforts on that occasion proved to be forerunners of later amalgamations. The sheet metal workers' union did not proceed with the amalgamation in the 1950s because it regarded the union fees being charged by the boilermakers' and blacksmiths' unions as too high. However, in 1967 we saw the amalgamation of the boilermakers' union and the blacksmiths' union. It was only then, when Jack Devereux, a man steeped in Queensland trade union history, became chairman of the Australian section of the Amalgamated Engineering Union that that union began to take a deep interest in amalgamation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
In the light of the Government's review of restricted trade practices, is it a fact that, in accordance with judgments recently handed down by the High Court of Australia, the Minister is exercising good sense in endeavouring to resolve in practical terms the problem, which has been amplified by 21/2 years of argument and litigation, concerning the monopoly surrounding duty free trading on and off Australia's air terminals. 

 Senator COTTON - The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to that part of the question relating to 'duty free' trading off Australia's air terminals: 
Since the High Court judgment mentioned in the question, the Department of Customs and Excise has been examining arrangements to resolve the problem referred to by the honourable senator. 
New procedures which depart radically from previous systems are at present being thoroughly tested in Sydney and Brisbane. If on completion of the trial it is shown that the new scheme allows the revenue to be adequately protected by reasonable control measures, other firms will be permitted to use the new procedures provided they agree to abide by prescribed conditions. 
In so far as duty free shops within airport terminals are concerned these come under my jurisdiction as the Minister responsible for the administration of the Airports (Business Concessions) 
Act. This Act requires that no person shall carry on a non-aviation business or deliver goods of a non-aviation nature at airport terminals without an authority issued under the terms of that Act. The Act also requires that in certain circumstances public tenders shall be invited before an authority is granted. The purposes of the Act in so far as business concessions are concerned are 2-fold, first to enable passenger facilities to be operated and second to enable the Commonwealth to obtain revenue to assist in meeting the costs of its complex airports and airways network. 
The Department of Civil Aviation over many years has called for tenders for the rights to sell and deliver duty free goods on airports. These tenders have been widely advertised. Trading authorities have only been issued after all the proper processes associated with public tendering procedures have been followed. Because of the trading rights that have been consequently granted, I regret I cannot issue any further authorities under that Act for the right to operate airport duty free shops at those airports, while present contractual arrangements exist. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Did the Commonwealth Gazette of 20th January 1972 advertise the following vacant position in the Melbourne office of the Industrial Registrar's Branch of the Attorney-General's Department: 
Clerk $7020-7559 (Class 6), Third Division. Duties - Carry out special projects and research as directed by the Industrial Registrar. Qualifications - Tertiary education, preferably in Economics or Sociology and that the position was open to permanent 
Commonwealth Public Servants only. 
Were applicants advised on 23rd February 1972 by the Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department that the position would be filled on a temporary basis for a period of 2 years. 
How many applications were received from permanent officers of the Commonwealth Public Service for the position. 
Were any of these applicants inteviewed; if so, bow many and; if not, why not. 
Do any of these applicants possess university or other academic qualifications. 
Are tertiary qualifications mandatory for the position; if so. " hal qualifications. 
Since the position was advertised as open only to Commonwealth Public Servants, how did it come about that applications were received from persons outside the Commonwealth Public Service. 
Were persons from outside the Commonwealth Public Sevice invited to apply; if so. how many. 
Did the Industrial Registrar,  Dr 1.  Sharpe, invite persons from outside the Sevice to apply. 
On what date did the person eventually selected to fill the position apply. 
When did he lake tip duty. 
Does the Minister consider thai the duties of this position, being a special projects officer for the Head of a very important and often controversial Branch, arc such that a temporary employee can be brought in to fill the position and be privy to important Commonwealth confidential information. 
Whose decision was it that there was no suitable applicant from within the Commonwealth Service. 
Are there procedures to safeguard the rights of permanent Commonwealth Public Servants in such cases; if so, what are they and were they followed in this case. 
On what basis was the period of 2 years temporary appointment - obtained, and is this a normal time limit. 
When a person is appointed under these circumstances, do permanent officers have any right of appeal to the Promotion Appeals Committee to have their claims determined by an independent tribunal. 
Are there any additional safeguards against the possibilities of political engagements. 
Are the procedures going to be strengthened to prevent such possibilities. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
A position, No. 105,  Clerk  (Class 6) $7020- 7559, attached to the Melbourne office of the Industrial Registrar, was advertised in the Commonwealth Gazette of 20th January 1972 with duties as indicated in the honourable senator's question. The qualifications were 'Tertiary education, preferably in Economics or Sociology, with evidence of ability to analyse and write clearly'. The advertisement sought applications from officers of the Commonwealth Service. 
Applicants were advised on 23rd February 1972 by the Attorney-General's Department that the postion would be filled on a temporary basis for a period of 2 years. 
Sixteen. 
No. The Industrial Registrar concluded after a careful perusal of the applications that none of the applicants was suitable for the position concerned. My Department concurred in this view, as did the Public Service Inspector for Victoria who authorised the employment of the person concerned. 
Yes. Six applicants had a university degree but only one had a degree of the types listed a preferable in the advertisement. 
No. 
The Gazette advertisement did not attract applications from persons outside the Commonwealth Public Service. 
No. 
No. 
The person selected did not submit a formal application for the particular position. However, together with many other graduands he wrote to the Industrial Registrar towards the end of 1971 academic year indicating his interest in  a  research position in the Registrar's Office an( enclosing a statement of his qualifications. This statement was dated 6th October 197 1 . 
1st March 1972. 
Yes. 
See answer to (4) above. 
Yes. The Public Service Inspector in the Slate concerned considers each case and determines whether there is an officer available in the Commonwealth Service who is as capable of filling the vacancy as the person selected. 
lt is considered that, in the circumstances involved, a minimum period of 2 years and a maximum of 3 years is the most desirable term of engagement. A period of less than 2 years would not allow the employee concerned to maximise his contribution to the work of the Branch and it is unlikely that he will wish to remain for a longer period than 3 years. There is no standard period for a temporary engagement and periods of temporary employment vary, according to circumstances. Extension beyond 12 months requires the approval of the Public Service Board or its delegate. (16), (17) and  (18)  There is no right of appeal to a Promotions Appeal Committee. However, a permanent officer has a right of appeal under Public Service Regulation  33  to the Chief Officer and the Permanent Head of his Department and ultimately to the Public Service Board, if he considers he has grounds of complaint arising out of any official instruction or from any other cause. The Public Service Board has the responsibility for appointments and employment under the Public Service Act. The Board acts independently in the exercise of its statutory powers and is not subject to political direction. I am not aware of any proposal to change these procedures. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the extent of foreign investment in all major industries, including those of mining, automotive manufacture, appliance manufacture, food manufacture, advertising and other areas of industry normally necessitating large capital investment. 
What  is  the value of the assets owned  in  Australia by these foreign companies and the names of the principal companies involved  in  the ownership of such assets. 
What  is  the amount of monies obtained by way of loan by these  companies  (a) from Australian institutions, (b) from the Australian public, and (c) by way of overdraft facilities from Australian banks. 
What  is  the value of the properties occupied by these companies  on  lease-back arrangements with Australian-based development companies. 
What  is  the amount of monies remitted by these companies  to  their parent companies overseas, by way of service agreements for services ostensibly rendered  to  the Australian subsidiary company and also  in  respect of contractual obligations of the parent companies. 
The measures that the Senate is now debating have 2 aims. The first is to provide $167m in unmatched capital grants to the States over a 5-year period for general building purposes in government schools and a sum of $48m over the same period for school build projects in private schools. The second is to increase the per capita payments towards the running costs of independent schools to a nominated percentage - 40 per cent - of the assessed cost of educating a child in a government school. Let me say at the outset that the Australian Democratic Labor Party believes that both of these vital steps will advance the educational rights of parents. Accordingly, my Party supports them. Having said that, let me turn to the amendment which has been proposed by the Australian Labor Party. 
Wait a minute; I have not got there yet. 
There seems to be some amusement on the Opposition side about the possibility that I might be reading from some typewritten script, lt so happens that I am not. Perhaps I should not say this, but there is an old saying that if you throw a stone amongst a pack of dogs you can pick the mongrels by the yelps. I was dealing with the amendment proposed by the Australian Labor Party, which seeks the establishment of an Australian schools commission whose function would be to determine the needs of students in government and non-government schools. This amendment is completely unacceptable to the Democratic Labor Party. Therefore my colleagues and I will vote against it. 
I believe it is appropriate at this stage of the debate to state clearly the Democratic Labor Party's attitudes. They can be reducedto 3 basic principles. Firstly, it is the prior right of parents to choose the kind of education they want for their children. Secondly, the State has the right to ensure or to insist that children are educated to a standard that will fit them for good citizenship. Thirdly, all Australian children ought to be equal under the law. 
It is in fact in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. For some 100 years all Australian governments were taxing all the people to provide education for all the children, but directing all the moneys so derived to state schools and denying any moneys to private schools. That was a negation of basic human rights. It is to the credit of the Party to which I belong that for the last 16 years it has fought consistently for the right of parents to choose the school and the kind of education they want for their children without discrimination. 1 notice that the members of the Labor Party are very quiet. That is a desirable state. I gather from  Senator Wilkinson's  interjection in reply to that remark that he agrees with the Democratic Labor Party. 
If the honourable senator agrees with the right of parents to choose the kind of education they want for their children, surely he must agree with the Democratic Labor Party when it says that it is wrong in principle and unjust to penalise parents who exercise that right. 
Now we have some disagreement. My Party is proud of the role it has played in this area. 
I think they might. 
I am not talking about subsidies. All I am saying is that when public moneys are set aside for education they ought to be spent equally on all children without discrimination. Let us look at the Australian Labor Party's proposals and attitudes on this matter. What are they? For instance, if a millionaire were to send his child to a state school, the Labor Party would be quite happy to meet the total cost of the child's education. But, if that wealthy parent chooses to educate his child at a private school, the Labor Party would pay no part of the cost. 
That is what you have said. 
That is what I say. If that is not discrimination, what is it? The Labor Party has agreed to pay the total cost of the education of a student of a wealthy parent, provided that student goes to a state school. But, if he goes to a private school, the Labor Party will pay no part of the cost. Yet members of the Labor Party have the audacity to say that that is not discrimination. 
Yes, of course you should. There ought to be equality. If the Labor Party accepts the principle that a parent has the right to choose the kind of education he wishes for his child and if the taxpayers' money is set aside for educational purposes, surely that money ought to be spent equally on a child in a private school and on a child in a state school. 
 Senator McLaren  is talking nonsense. Why does he not be honest? He says that if a parent wants tosend his child to a private school the parent ought to pay for it. Is that his attitude? 
That is not what  Senator McLaren  said- 
1 remind  Senator McLaren  that in 1963 we witnessed a breakthrough in this field. He will recall that in 1963 the Menzies Government made a payment to private schools for science blocks. Subsequently the Commonwealth Government began making per capita payments. In that period it was the DLP, and the DLP alone, which advocated such payments, and now it is the DLP which says - and apparently the Government has agreed - that these per capita payments ought to be based on the cost of educating a child in a government school. The Bill provides for a payment of 40 per cent of that cost. We believe that that is a step in the right direction, but eventually what ought to be achieved is complete equality. The payment ought to be the same as the cost of educating a child in the state system. 
If the Labor Party is honest - and I doubt whether it is in this matter - it ought to say on the hustings in the next few weeks that, if a Labor government is returned on 2nd December, that will be the end of per capita payments to private schools. I say here and now that the DLP does not favour one school system any more than it favours one newspaper, one radio station, one television station or one airline. We believe in complete equality in the field of education, and for the reasons I have outlined the DLP supports the Bill - not because it achieves that, but because it is a step in that direction. I repeat, for the sake of emphasis, that we are proud of the role we have played in this matter over the last 15 years, and we are glad to see that now, after 15 years of struggle, at least this Government is moving in the right direction towards achieving equality in education. 
I  move: 
That the Bill be now read  a second  time. 
I  seek the indulgence of the Senate to follow the traditional practice in the case of second reading speeches, to read a short statement as my second reading speech on the Bill. The Bill seeks to restrict increases in prices of certain goods and services resulting from the making of industrial agreements. Let me say at the outset that the Democratic Labor Party accepts the principle of genuine negotiations between unionists and employers, and the principle that wage increases are often perfectly legitimate. However, the iBll which is now before the Senate provides that every consent agreement between unions and employers, whether made privately or within the arbitration system, must be registered with the Commissioner of Trade Practices. Where there has been such a consent agreement the Bill prohibits any subsequent price increases within 200 days of its conclusion. Any price rise which is made within 200 days of finalising the consent agreement by any firm which is party to it is automatically illegal, and the fine for such a price rise is $10,000. A firm which increases prices can escape liability but only if it can prove affirmatively that the price rises did not derive from the consent agreement but from totally extraneous factors. The onus of proof is important. Under the provisions of this Bill all firms which enter into price rises after consent agreements are in effect guilty until the firm proves that it is innocent. The DLP's Bill, if passed, will not affect the capacity of unions and employers to negotiate freely within or outside the arbitration system. It will not limit the right of unions to demand for employers- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! This is a second reading speech. The honourable senator is entitled to read it. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Are copies of the speech available? 
No. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Yes, it has been read a first time. 
I  am sorry that  I  am upsetting Opposition senators. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order!  I  am informed that no copies of it are available. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Kane,  continue your second reading speech. 
The DLP's Bill, if passed, will not limit the right of unions to demand, or employers to grant, wage increases. What it does enforce is that there shall be no price increases as a result of these consent agreements. The Bill will ensure that wage increases come out of profits and not out of additional prices. It will also ensure that negotiations are genuinely based on the capacity of a firm to pay and not on collusion, which raises wages and prices at the same time at the expense of the entire community. 
This Bill brought forward by the Australian Democratic Labor Party deserves to be supported by the Government, the Australian Labor Party, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and, indeed, the entire Labor movement. The purpose of the Bill is to limit price increases and not to limit wage increases. The Bill does not in any way affect the process of conciliation between the unions and employer organisations. 
Debate interrupted. 
I was saying that the Bill does not in any way affect the conciliation between unions and employer organisations within or outside the arbitration system. The Party to which I belong is strongly wedded to the principle of conciliation within this system, with arbitration as the method of last resort. May I therefore, for the sake of emphasis, re-state what I have already said. It is this: The DLP is strongly in favour of bona fide conciliation within the arbitration system. It is equally strongly in favour of wage increases gained by the process of conciliation and arbitration within the system. We are against collusive practices between powerful employer and union groups in key sectors of industry, at the expense of increased prices passed on to the rest of the community. We are also against the sacrifice of the economic interests of the most depressed groups in the Australian community, including the breadwinners on or close to the minimum wage, pensioners and people on fixed incomes. 
The evil that the Bill seeks to remedy is that of collusive practices between major employer groups and unions in key industries such as the metal trades industry and the waterfront industry, at the expense of the general public. The existence of collusive agreements in key industries, at the expense of the public, is widespread throughout the western world. A recent study of inflation by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development referred to these collusive agreements in high productivity industries as  a  basic  cause of inflation throughout the western world. The mechanics of these agreements are more or less uniform. In the stevedoring industry, the oil industry and the metal trades industry, to take a few key Australian examples, the union leadership periodically announces its intention of demanding large, concessions in wages and conditions: and that is natural. It is the union's business to threaten to stop the plan unless the grants are forthcoming. This procedure is normal bargaining in any major wage negotiations in highly capitalised industries with low labour content. The economics are clear. Stopping the waterfront costs the stevedoring companies Sim a day. Stopping oil refineries or automotive or metal manufacturing plants also involves large sums. Both the union leadership and the employers understand the situation very well. Where the labour force is small it is cheaper for the employer to settle for large percentage increases in wage costs than to have his highly capitalised plant tied up, with losses in interest and in depreciation. So the employers tend to settle, especially if they are associated, and protected by high tariffs against international companies. 
There can be no objection if the employers settle out of profits and if prices remain the same. But both sides are well aware thai this is not the situation. The employers then increase their prices to the consumer to Gover the extra wage costs plus a percentage for mark-up. The union leadership, particularly if it is left wing, talks loudly about price control but in fact condones these disgraceful fix-ups and then boasts proudly of gains from industrial militancy. The price increases imposed on these basic industries thus flow on to everybody. They have a special impact on the lowest paid group in the community, the pensioners, and the large families, which have no hope of compensating themselves. The chief victims of the cynical fix-ups between monopoly unions and employers are thus the poorest and most defenceless elements in the community. That is the background to the. Bill I have introduced on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party and which I commend to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) adjourned. 
 1  give notice that on the next day of sitting  I  shall move: 
That the Government should include in its legislative programme a Bill to abolish Federal estate duty. 

 Senator KANE (New South Wales) - I  give notice ako that on the next day of sitting  I  shall move: 
That in view of the developing practice in the industrial trade union movement of using industrial trade union organisations to force political decisions upon governments by threats of strike action or by strike action it is becoming imperative that the Government immediately legislate to outlaw this type of industrial blackmail. 
That available constitutional means under the trade and commerce power be called upon to effect this purpose. 
Will the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs assure the Senate that no assistance from Australia will be extended to North Vietnam while it maintains armed forces in South Vietnam? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is there any significance in the- choice by the Minister of  Dr Patterson  to represent him in the other place? Why was the Minister" for Immigration bypassed in the selection of a Minister to represent the Minister for Primary ' Industry in the other place? 
asked the Minister repre senting the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Why was there an initial objection taken by the Prime Minister for security clearances being undertaken on his staff and the staffs of other Ministers. 

 Senator MURPHY - The Prime Minister has supplied the following information for answer tothe honourable senator's question: 
There was no such objection. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is there any significance in the choice, by the Minister, of  Dr Patterson  to represent him in the House of Representatives. 
Why was the Minister for Immigration bypassed in this selection of a Minister in the House of Representatives. 

 Senator WRIEDT - The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) I was in the fortunate position at the time of arranging representation for the Primary Industry portfolio in the House of Representatives of having two extremely competent men in the field of agriculture to choose from the Minister for Northern Development,  Dr Patterson,  and the Minis ter for Immigration,  Mr Grassby.  As  Dr Patterson's  portfolio is more directly connected with rural matters, I decided to ask him to represent me. 
1 ask the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is the Prime' Minister, correctly reported as having said in an interview .published in the current issue of 'Newsweek' - that he feared that American forces in Thailand might produce a situation like Vietnam, and that American use of air - bases in Thailand' for' operations against Vietnam bad inevitably caused the suspicion and, in fact, the hostility of Hanoi against Thailand? If so, is this an extension of the new vvhitiam doctrine announced in Indonesia of telling Britain and the' United States of America to get out of Asia? Is it a fact that in his policy speech  Mr Whitlam  made . no -mention whatever of this new and radical foreign policy? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it true that the Government, as reported in today's Press, is pinning its hopes on the proposed prices justification tribunal as the major weapon against inflation? Can the 
Minister indicate when legislation to establish the tribunal is expected to be presented to Parliament? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Was Miss Elizabeth Evatt, prior to her appointment as a Presidential Member of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, resident in London. 
What is her particular experience and expertise in the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration field. 
Has she ever published any papers or research studies on this subject: 

 Senator BISHOP - The Minister for Labour has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
Miss Evatt was the first woman to win the University Medal on graduation from the Sydney University Law School. After practising at the Bar in New South Wales for several years, she was then granted a scholarship to Harvard University, Massachusetts, where she took a Master of Laws degree. Following this Miss Evatt went to London and was admitted to the London Bar where she practised as a barrister, subsequently being appointed to the editorship of the Journal of Comparative Law and International Law. At the time of her appointment she was with the British Law Commission and was instrumental in the publication of a book on Family Law. Her work in this section led to the passing by the House of Commons of the recent Act relating to Family Law reform. This Act recently came before the English Court of Appeal for construction and the English Court of Appeal headed by the Master of the Rolls, Lord Denning, gave an important historical ruling that the wife in the home is to be treated as being as valuable to the family as the wife who goes out to work. 
I am not aware of the details of all her publications. 
On 6th March I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs was correctly reported in the current issue of 'Newsweek' as saying that he feared that American forces in Thailand would produce a situation like that in Vietnam and that American use of bases in Thailand for operations against Vietnam had inevitably caused the suspicion and, in fact, hostility of Hanoi against Thailand. I ask the Minister whether he can now answer the question which I asked him on 6th March in these terms: 
If so, is this an extension of the new Whitlam doctrine announced in Indonesia of telling Britain and the United States of America to  get  out of Asia? ls it a fact that in his policy speech  Mr Whitlam  made no mention whatever of this new and radical foreign policy? 
I ask the Minister also whether he is aware of an Australian Associated Press report quoted on radio 2UE today which said: 
Thailand has refuted Prime Minister Whitlam's claim that it could become another Vietnam. 
Thai officials say the Australian leader spoke without understanding the real facts. The Bangkok Post' has criticised  Mr Whitlam  in a scathing front page editorial. The newspaper advised  Mr Whitlam  to keep his mouth shut and to mind 'his own bloody business'. If the Minister is still unable to answer the questions I have asked him today and those I asked on 6th March, will he give the Senate an assurance that Australia's relations with Thailand will not be jeopardised in the way our relations have been with the United States of America, Indonesia and South Vietnam? Does the Minister agree that Australia is quickly running out of friends? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that the Government of Communist China has consented to the exchange of official representatives with the United States of America without exacting the slightest concession in regard to the recognition by the United States of the Nationalist Chinese regime in Taiwan? If so, does the Minister, now agree that the Government was most unwise in severing Australia's diplomatic relations with the non-communist Government of Nationalist China? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
What exactly are the single parent co-operatives referred to in a speech made by, the Minister in Perth on 19th January, for which he said he was thinking of providing financial assistance. 

 Senator BISHOP- The Minister for Labour has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Single parent co-operatives are arrangements between parents who, by reason of decease, divorce, desertion, or wish, are single and who want to take care of their children during the day on a cooperative basis. In my Perth speech 1 instanced these cooperatives as examples of the sort of project that might be supported in a Local Initiatives program. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What was the date of the recent meeting of the Socialist International in Paris. 
Did any representative of the Australian Government or the Australian Labor Party attend this meeting; if so, who were they. 

 Senator WILLESEE- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Socialist International met in Paris on 13th and 14th January 1973. 
No official representative of the Australian Government or the Australian Labor Party attended this meeting. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Was the interpreter of the North Vietnamese trade union delegation which visited Brisbane on 6th February, during an Australia-wide tour, reported as saying 'We welcome very much the actions by the Federal Government of Australia which has given us many facilities'; if so, what exactly were the facilities given by the Australian Government to the delegation. 

 Senator WILLESEE- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The North Vietnamese trade union delegation visited Australia on a private basis at the invitation of an Australian trade union. Apart from the issue of letters of authority to enter Australia no facilities were provided by the Australian Government. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That leave be given to bring in a Bill for an Act to terminate estate duty. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Did the Minister announce on 24th January that he had given approval for the immediate purchaseof 30 stud merino Australian rams by the Compagnie d'Importation de Laines (C.I.L.); if so, are the rams destined for export to Communist China. 

 Senator WRIEDT- The answer to  Senator Kane's  question is as follows: 
On 24th January 1973 I announced that approval had been granted for the export of 30 stud merino rams by, the Compagnie d'Importation de Laines to meet an existing order from the People's Republic of China. Subsequently, the Government decided that a referendum of persons affected would be held on the question of the embargo on the export of merino rams and merino semen, and the approval for the export of 30 rams to China was withdrawn accordingly. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Did  Mr Whitlam  on 24th July 1972 call for an immediate cash payment of $100 for every pensioner and unemployed person. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDThe Minister for Social Security has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
On 24th July 1972 during a radio broadcast  Mr Whitlam  said: 
The immediate economic problem is to put the unemployed back to work. The best and quickest way to do this would be for every pensioner and every unemployed to receive an immediate cash payment of, say, $100. These are the people who have to spend all they receive simply to keep going. 
A payment of the kind I now suggest - indeed I urged it last February - would not be an in-built inflationary force. It would provide an immediate but once-for all boost'. 

 Mr Whitlam made it clear that the proposal was related to the economic conditions at the time and designed to provide an immediate stimulus for the economy, clearly required at the time. No such proposal was included in the Government's election program. 
asked the Minister repre senting thepostmaster-General, upon notice: 
Has a  Mr J.  Kennedy of Brisbane been appointed a member of the Royal Commission into the Australian Post Office. 
Is  Mr Kennedy  the same person who unsuccessfully contested the Queensland State election in the seat of Mount Gravatt for the Australian Labor Party in 1969. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND - The Postmaster General has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question. 
Yes. 
I am informed the answer is yes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
What is the particular experience and expertise in the Australian conciliation and arbitration field of Miss Elizabeth Evatt, who was recently appointed a Presidential Member of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
What was the approximate date, or year, of the last occasion on which Miss Evatt was resident in Australia, as distinct from merely visiting this country. 

 Senator BISHOP- The Minister for Labour has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to my answer to question No. 31 (Hansard, Senate, page 250). 
I do not have this information. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Did Cabinet authorise the Commonwealth police raids on the weekend of 31st March and 1st April? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will the sugar industry, due to changes between the Australian dollar and the US dollar in the past 14 months suffer a 24 per cent reduction in income from sales to the United States of America. 

 Senator WRIEDT- My colleague, the Minister for Northern Development, has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian sugar industry will not suffer any significant losses as the result of currency realignments since December 1971 on its sales to the United States under the US Sugar Act. The anticipated proceeds from sales to the end of 1974, when the Act is due to expire, are largely protected by forward exchange cover taken out with the Reserve Bank. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That leave be given to bring in a Bill for an Act to restrict increases in prices of certain goods and services resulting from the making of industrial agreements, and for purposes connected therewith. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that at the end of February 1973 the total savings in Australian banks was in excess of $9,000m? Will the Minister agree that current inflation is running at between 6 per cent and 8 per cent? If so, does this mean that between $600m and $800m will have been stolen from the savings of Australians this year? Will the Minister therefore outline to the Senate as soon as possible the Governments detailed plans to put value back into Australia's diminishing dollar? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Did representatives of the Taiwan Port Authorities hold negotiations with the Brisbane shipbuilding yard, Index Slipway and Engineering Pty Ltd, with a view to placing orders worth approximately $A1,250,000 prior to Australia recognising Communist China. 
Did the negotiations cease immediately Australia signed the joint communique with Communist China. 

 Senator WRIEDT- The Minister for Overseas Trade has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Index Slipway and Engineering Pty Ltd were negotiating with Taiwanese authorities over the possible sale of equipment stated to be of the order of $1.25m. 
I understand that these negotiations have been terminated. My information is that purchases by Taiwan are still subject to normal commercial considerations. This is evidenced by contracts currently under negotiation and the continued receipt of inquiries from Taiwan for the supply of Australian goods. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to terminate Commonwealth estate duty. Commonwealth estate duty has become an oppressive, punitive and discriminatory tax which is carried by those people least able to afford it. Since the Commonwealth introduced death duties in 1914 there has been a widespread belief that this form of taxes would lead to a fairer distribution of wealth and a fairer distribution of the nation's land holdings. It has been trumpeted around that death duties on inherited property ensure that the personal wealth of a nation is not locked up in the hands of a small arrogant and self-perpetuating group of people. Nearly 60 years after the Commonwealth 
Government first entered the field it has become obvious that this view of death duties is as untrue as it is irrelevant. 
There are only 2 certainties about Commonwealth estate duties. Firstly, they tax the poorer citizen rather than the richer citizen and, secondly, they tax the rural producer far more rigorously than they tax the city dweller. The first point is well established by even a brief study of the structure of Commonwealth estate duties in this country. The poor pay their estate duties while the richer pay their lawyers. As with any other scheme of taxation estate duties are open to avoidance. The smarter the lawyer a man can hire, the larger the estate he will leave to his heirs. Let us look at the other side of the coin. 
The smaller and middle level property owner such as the family farmer just cannot afford the elaborate schemes for avoiding estate duty which are open to wealthier citizens. It is the smaller and middle level of property owners who make up the great bulk of people who are liable to estate duties. Quite apart from the question of who can afford the best legal advice, the process of inflation since World War II has further jeopardised the chances of the smaller and middle levels of property owners to get fair treatment from the Commonwealth Government. 
The rate structure of Commonwealth estate duty has not been revised since 1941. Although the last Government made some concession to inflation in its Budget of August 1972, there are innumerable smaller property owners who have been put into the tax-paying class by the pressure of inflation; that is, inflation has increased the nominal value of their properties thereby forcing them to pay estate duties at a rate which in 1941 would have been reserved for the well to do. Therefore in the rural community - unless you are a wealthy landowner - legal costs on the one hand and inflation on the other - successfully conspire to deprive your heirs of the benefit of hard work and skill lavished on your property. 
Let me state a common instance of how estate duties have become punitive and oppressive for the small family farmer. I quote from an article entitled 'Death Duties are out of Date and Inefficient Too' by  Dr Peter  Groenewegen, Senior Lecturer in Economics at Sydney University, published in the 'Financial Review' on 16th March. The article reads: 
Where the beneficiaries of such a small estate are a widow with or without dependent children (although the hardships in the latter case are multiplied) the delays resulting from the existence of death duties can cause considerable hardship since the family assets - such as savings bank deposits - can generally not be touched while the only source of income has suddenly been removed. 
Frequently, especially in the case of the lower income groups with small estates, no provision has or can be made for this eventuality. 
This considerably increases the effective burden of death duties at the lower end of the scale. This consideration reinforces the conclusion that death duties are no longer an equitable tax. They, therefore, no longer justify their existence by fulfilling  their  original objective satisfactorily. 
A deep concern for these iniquities of the Commonwealth estate duties prompted the DLP to move for its abolition on 3 occasions during the last Parliament. In 1970, my colleague  Senator Condon  Byrne moved an amendment designed to eliminate Federal and State duties. The ALP senators voted in a bloc against that proposition. In May 1971, 1 moved an amendment to the Loan (Farmers Debt Adjustment) Bill by which the Federal Government would retire from the field of estate duty. On 2 occasions we were unable to win the support of a majority of senators. However, we brought the matter forward again on 11th October 1972, on the Estate Duty Assessment Bill. On that occasion the majority of the Senate supported us. 
Two developments in the past few years demonstrate how out of date Commonwealth estate duties are. Firstly, there is a growing movement for decentralisation of Australian population for the development of the full and productive life for the people outside congested capital cities. Secondly, there is a growing awareness in the cities of the particular disabilities under which farmers labour. The recent rural depression, the fickleness of commodity prices, as demonstrated by the recent drop in wool prices, and the ever present danger of drought have all contributed to a much better understanding by the people in the cities of the special problems of the rural producers. 
Let us take the question of decentralisation first. During the last general election campaign there was a surprising and perhaps historic agreement among all parties represented in this Parliament that decentralisation had become a pressing national issue. The present Government has given lip service to the proposition that Australians must have the opportunity to enjoy life outside the capital cities of the nation. The Prime Minister has even journeyed to Albury-Wodonga to test the waters of Commonwealth-State co-operation for an inland city. The previous Government made strenuous efforts after the last Budget to make decentralisation a top national priority. Its achievements were limited to a few Press releases by the then Prime Minister. 
The honourable senator will have ample opportunity later to take the second reading speech apart if he wants to do so. I draw the Senate's attention to these facts because the DLP beieves that the first step in attracting Australians outside the congested coastal cities is to preserve and expand existing rural based communities and to ensure that the economic conditions exist which will encourage present day country people to stay in these rural areas. However, climate and commodity prices have worked against them. Drought and poor prices resulted in one of the most severe rural depressions in this nation's history just 2 years ago. Rural communities are still struggling to rehabilitate themselves from that disaster. It is very foolish indeed to impose what amounts to a capital gains tax on rural producers during a period when the Government has promised money on the one hand for rural reconstruction and on the other hand for rural regeneration. 
This proposition becomes quite clear when the discriminatory nature of estate duty is looked at. For the primary producer these are the facts: Firstly, primary producers pay more than twice as much death duty on their estates as does the average taxpayer. Secondly, in the past decade primary producers have paid from 32 to 39 per cent of all estate duties collected by the Commonwealth, yet primary producers account for only 7 per cent of all taxpayers. It should be pointed out quite quickly that the reason for these figures is not to be found by saying that farmers are unbelievably wealthy and must be taxed accordingly. The distress and dispossession of country people in the past 4 years are proof enough that they are not some sort of chosen race. The estimates for 1972-73 show that only 0.79 per cent of total Commonwealth revenue, or (67m, will be raised by Commonwealth estate duties. Surely the gain by the Commonwealth is so small that the abolition of this tax will hurt nobody, while it would help thousands of Australians. 
Any member of Parliament who directly represents country people, as all senators do, will realise the agony which so many country people go through as a result of rural depression. The 1971 census was able to show a dramatic flight of people from the country, a scene which brought to mind the depression of the 1930s. The contention of the DLP and the purpose of this Bill is to abolish the oppressive taxation which forced many of these people off their land. The precarious economic situation facing farmers would surely justify the abolition of estate duties. We have seen already a mass exodus from the land by people who lack nothing in courage, tenacity or love of the land. They were simply beaten by forces outside their control. They were beaten by drought, by falling prices and ' by callous indifference to their sufferings. The Senate has no control over the weather or the latest wool prices, but it can make a start in showing its determination that one section of the community is not forced to carry an unfair and unnecessary burden of taxes. This is especially so when that section of the community is just emerging from its most severe economic disasters since the depression. 
The Senate is in a position to give full expression to all those promises made during the general election campaign about spending capital in country areas to make them attractive for Australians to live in. By all means let us spend money to make Australian primary industry as productive and efficient as possible. But before we promise to pour in the money, let us stop draining out the money. The Commonwealth estate duties are a device which takes from rural producers much of the vital capital which is needed for farm reconstruction and efficient economic performance. The burden of estate duties falls on the smaller property owner - the family farmer - who is in the greatest need of his small savings built up by sheer hard work over a generation. It is a prejudiced tax which seizes this man's assets under the guise of taxing the ultra-wealthy and of breaking up the ultra-large holdings. For too long Commonwealth estate duties have masqueraded as a tax on the rich and a device to break up vast squatter runs as a means of ensuring a fairer distribution of the nation's wealth. In fact, this tax has turned into an attack on the rural community and especially on the small family farmer who is the backbone of country life. 
This Bill is designed to destroy once and for all this iniquitous contrivance of government at the expense of the rural community. The regeneration of rural Australia will begin when the Commonwealth decides to vacate the field of death duties and thereby set an example for all governments in Australia to follow. In conclusion, let me remind the Senate that in October 1972 the DLP called for the Commonwealth Government to retire from the field of estate duties, and that call was supported by the majority of honourable senators. It is our view and hope that the same situation will apply on this occasion in relation to this Bill. We are also hopeful that the Bill, having passed through the Senate and being sent to the House of Representatives, will be supported by Government members there and will end once and for all this iniquitous tax. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Gietzelt)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
What were the monthly exports of Australian wheat to Rhodesia for the 12 month period prior to the Government's banning of further wheat exports to that country? 

 Senator WRIEDT- The Minister for Overseas Trade has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The decision not to allow further wheat shipments to Southern Rhodesia was announced on 13th December 1972. Shipments in each of the previous 12 months were as follows: 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. Will the Government allow a committee of inquiry from the Australian Croatian community to visit Yugoslavia and investigate the circumstances of the trial and execution of the 3 Croatian born naturalised Australians? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I refer to an earlier question asked by  Senator Gietzelt  about the background of  3  naturalised Australians executed in Yugoslavia. I ask: Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that in the documents tabled by him there is no evidence of any extremist or terrorist background to at least one of the executed men, namely, Mirko Vlashnovic? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has the fertility rate in the United States of America dropped below the replacement rate necessary for zero population growth. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAN D - The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that statistics are not yet to hand which would enable an exact calculation of total fertility for the United States of America in 1972. However he has arrived at an approximate estimate based upon the provisional statistics issued for 1972 by the United States National Center for Health Statistics. Total fertility for 1972 was about 2,070 per thousand women. Replacement fertility, the level of reproduction con sistent with ultimate zero population growth, under contemporary conditions of mortality in the United States of America averages out to 2.11 children per woman over a life time. The figure allows for deaths among women before they reach child-bearing age, and also for the fact that slightly more males than females are born. Thus total fertility in 1972 is estimated to have been one to two per cent below replacement level. Notwithstanding, 1,294,000 persons were added to the population in 1972 due to natural increase, the excess of births over deaths. The rate of natural increase was 6.2 persons per thousand population. 
The Commission of Population Growth and the American Future in its report on 27th March to the  President  and Congress of the United States commented 'Even if immigration from abroad ceased and couples had only 2 children on the average - just enough to replace themselves - our population would continue to grow for about 70 years. Our past rapid growth has given us so many young couples that, to bring population growth to an immediate halt, the birth rate would have to drop by almost50 per cent and today's generation of parents would have to limit themselves to an average of about one child. 
I merely rise to say that the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the provisions contained in this Bill and we will be casting our votes accordingly. 
-I desire to ask a supplementary question. Is the Minister for the Media prepared to assist me with my request to the General Manager, or is he saying my only recourse is legal action? 
-I  feel that this matter has been well canvassed. I think all viewpoints have been expressed, and I move: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="056232197305104_40_2_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="056232197305104_40_2_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="056232197305104_40_2_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Turnbull's amendment)  be left out. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for the Media, refers to the screening last night on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's current affairs program This Day Tonight' of an extract from a play-acted film showing a woman having an illegal abortion. That film was screened earlier this week through arrangements made by the Minister for Health. The television program falsely claimed that I attended that screening. 1 ask: What avenues are open to me to ensure that the program This Day Tonight' correctly informs the viewers of the fact that I was not at that screening? Will the Minister assist me to clear my good name in this regard? 
I will defer to  Senator McManus. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Will the Government, in the light of its proposal to refer the question of French nuclear testing in the Pacific to the International Court of Justice, also be prepared to do likewise on the question of nuclear testing by Communist China. 
I present11 identically worded petitions from a total of 2,265 citizens of New South Wales in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain citizens of New South Wales respectfully sheweth: 
That Australian citizens place great value on the sanctity of human life and the physical, mental and social welfare of mothers and children. 
That we are deeply concerned to preserve throughout Australia the law's protection of human life from the moment of conception. 
That proposals to change the law to allow abortion on demand and the termination of pregnancy for non-medical reasons are unacceptable to the people of Australia. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable House will not extend the laws governing abortion and will uphold the right to life of the unborn child. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petitions received and the petition read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and refers to a decision of the Australian Council of Trade Unions executive yesterday to refer the ballot provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill to the ACTU's arbitration committee which will not meet until 22nd May. Does the Government intend to press for the passage of this Bill in the light of the ACTU's decision and the fact that the ACTU may well call on the Government to amend the provisions of the Bill or does the Government propose to defer the passage of the Bill until the ACTU's decision is known? 
 I speak on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, which cannot be charged with attempting to gerrymander. I also say that 1 am on the side of the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in what he had to say about the voting system. Strangely enough- (Government senators interjecting)- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)  - Order!  Senator Kane  will be heard in the same silence as was accorded to the Minister for the Media, who has just resumed his seat. There is a limited time in which to speak when the Senate is being broadcast. Interjections are disorderly. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I was saying that I was on the side of the Minister for Labour in what he said about electoral reform and his support of proportional voting. Strange as it may seem and despite what we heard from  Senator 
McAuliffe iri the Senate last night, I happen to be on the same side as  Senator McAuliffe.  Before the last election my Party warned that a Whitlam Government- 
That is right, and the honourable senator is going to hear it again. We warned that a Whitlam Government would alter the Commonwealth Electoral Act to keep Australian Labor Party members of Parliament permanently in office by gerrymander. 
Yes, it is certainly a horrible thought. 
I suggest that  Senator Mulvihill  hold his horses: he will keep. I will have something to say to him in a moment. 
That is OK. The Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) is the first episode in a long story of electoral jobbery which is about to unfold. Let there be no doubt about that. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  in his second reading speech in another place, promised a full scale review of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. It has been said that he proposes about 100 amendments to the Act. So we have his word for it that a full scale review is proposed and that he hopes the amendments will be passed into law before the next election for the House of Representatives and the Senate. 1 understand that today the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has issued further threats about a double dissolution unless his Bills are passed without delay in the Senate. Let me say on behalf of my Party that threats of a double dissolution hold no terror for us. The Minister has promised a full scale review of the Act. He has promised extensive amendments to it. In less formal language, the Minister is promising the Australian Labor Party members of parliament a safe tenure of office by gerrymander. 
The Prime Minister tested the wind quite recently for wholesale scrapping of the Act when he floated the idea of optional preferential voting. It will be recalled that during the last election campaign the Prime Minister said, when finally smoked out by the advertising campaign of the Democratic Labor Party, that he did not intend to alter the Act to a first past the post voting system until after the next election. Very recently he tested the wind by proposing his idea of optional preferential voting. Honourable senators will know, as everybody knows, that optional preferential voting is just a slight modification of first past the post voting. 
It does; that is true. First past the post voting, the introduction of which is part of the long term program of the Government, is well worth looking at because those who advocate it have the infernal hide to stand here and claim that they are true democrats, that they are concerned- 
1 can understand  Senator Mulvihill  getting a little hot under the collar. I saw his performance in a Party election in New South Wales. In the party to which I once belonged there was an election for the executive. The returning officer and those who controlled the ballot were none other than Joe Chamberlain and his colleagues. There were  2  sets of candidates offering for election - the group to which I belonged and the group to which  Senator Mulvihill  belonged. 
No, a member of the Australian Labor Party. 
Wait a minute. In this ballot, which was controlled from beginning to end by  Senator Mulvihills  colleagues, the group to which I belonged won every position except one; the group to which  Senator Mulvihill  belonged was soundly defeated. 
Wait a minute. The federal executive then dismissed those who had been elected in the ballot it had conducted and replaced them with those who were rejected, and  Senator Mulvihill  had the honour, if I might say that, of replacing me as the Assistant Secretary of the party in New 
South Wales. That was in 1955 and  Senator Mulvihill  ought to be the last person to pre? sent himself here as a democrat. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)  - Order,  Senator Mulvihill Senator Kane,  please address your remarks to the Bill. 
I am sorry,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I was referring to the undemocratic procedures proposed by the Labor Party's policies. I was referring also to a statement made recently by the Prime Minister on what he called optional preferential voting. Let us look at this system of first past the post voting which the Labor Party claims is the essence of democracy. 
I would suggest that the Minister might keep quiet, too. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! I have already reminded  Senator Kane  that he should address his remarks to the Bill, but it is my belief that an honourable senator is quite in order in speaking about voting procedures and systems, as other honourable senators have done, when speaking to a Bill to amend the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
 1 will not refer any further to first past the post voting since it upsets the Government senators to such an extent. However, I do want to say that the Prime Minister, having promised on the election eve not to introduce first past the post voting until after the next election, did talk about a system of optional preferential voting. He completely disregarded the promise he made on the eve of the election, which shows just how dubious the Prime Minister's promises are. I am reminded that they are like cats' licences. Renewal is necessary every 4 months for them to be valid. The Prime Minister was forced to run for cover in relation to preferential voting, but 'let us have no doubt about the fact that the Government is still sponsoring this Bill as the first of a series of measures aimed at perpetuating the ALP in office by gerrymander. 
Much has been said about the inequalities of the electoral system. Let us have a look at some of the accusations that Labor has made about the present system being rigged against it. lt is interesting to note that every time a Labor spokesman endeavours to present an argument in support of his case that the present system is loaded against his party he always ignores the DLP vote when doing his sums. Of course, the truth is that the present Act is not at all unkind to the ALP. Let us look at the facts. The facts are that the system was never as unkind to the ALP as the electors have been, although it is worth saying that the system has been very unkind to the DLP. 
The election results since 1958 show that the Labor Party failed to win office whenever the people wanted out. On no occasion has the Labor Party been unfairly denied Federal office. In 1958, 42.8 per cent of Australian electors wanted a Labor government and 55.9 per cent of the Australian voters made it clear by supporting the DLP, the Country Party and the Liberal Party that they did not want a Labor government. In 1961, 47.9 per cent voted for a Labor government while 50.8 per cent voted against it. In 1963, 45.5 per cent voted for a Labor government while 53.4 per cent voted to prevent a Labor government from coming to office. In 1966, 40 per cent of the Australian electors showed by their votes that they wanted a Labor government while 57.2 per cent showed they did not. In 1969, 47 per cent showed by their votes that they wanted Labor government while 49.4 per cent were decisively opposed to it. 
One cannot get away from these facts. The Australian Labor Party claims to be the biggest party in the country. We should not disguise the fact that this Government has never won the support of the majority of the Australian electors, that it has never won 50 per cent plus one of the votes in any election held from 1958 up to and including 1972. 
That is not the question. In December 1972 the ALP won 49.59 per cent of the total votes cast. It was forced to depend upon the silver tailed pseudo-radicals of the Australia Party to gain office. The Party falsely claiming to be the Party of the workers depends for election on the whims of a millionaire and his hobby. Let us clear away once and for all this nonsense about the present Act being loaded unfairly against the Labor Party. That statement is just not true. Since 1958, the present electoral system has rewarded with office the parties able to muster more votes than their opponents. This is shown in the record. The fact that the ALP now governs with a minority - it has done so since the 1972 election - is an example of this, and it certainly is an argument in support of and not against the present system. 
It is right. The fact that the ALP now is running in tandem with  Mr Barton's  Australia Party merely reflects the preference of the ALP for strange bedfellows. It is not an indictment of the present electoral system. 

 - Senator Mulvihill will burst a blood vessel in a minute. Members of the Australian Labor Party have an infernal hide to claim that they are the great democrats. The greatest barrier to the ALP is not the electoral system but the fact that so often it has proved to be unworthy of the majority support of the Australian people. Let us consider some of the actions of the present Government in the last 4 months. 
This is relevant because this Government is endeavouring to gerrymander itself into power permanently, and  I  can think of nothing worse for democracy. This Government, whether or not it likes to admit this, has an authoritarian streak which would leave any other government in Australia for dead. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)  - Order!  Senator Mulvihill,  you have been interjecting continually and  I  ask you to stop, and 1 mean it. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - 
You have opened it once too often. 
I  was saying that Labor's authoritarianism extends to the highest level of Government, to the Prime Minister himself.  I  want to quote as my authority an article written by Maximilian Walsh which appeared in the 'Financial Review' of 6th April 1973. He wrote: 
The adjective which we will see cropping up more and more to describe  Mr Whitlands  parliamentary style will be that of 'arrogant'. At the moment it is an inaccurate one. So far  Mr Whitlam's  behaviour would more merit the description of juvenile bullying. In 5 weeks of Parliament he has managed to commit every parliamentary sin that he spent 5 years accusing the Opposition of committing. 
The author went on to say, still referring to  Mr Whitlam: 
He has treated questions and questioners with Ignore and contempt. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - I  have already warned  Senator Kane  that he should relate his remarks to the Bill.  I  suggest also that he should not go out of his way to be provocative and waste the time allotted to him for his speech. He should not proceed with a continuous attack upon the Prime Minister that so far is unrelated to the Bill. 
I  ask you,  Sir, to  reconsider the matter. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Kane, relate your remarks to the Bill or your time will be wasted by the Minister for Works rising to take points of order.  I  will not allow you to continue criticising the Prime Minister or any person unrelated to the Bill.  If  you relate your remarks to the Bill you will be in order and you will not be interrupted by me or by the Minister. 
I  certainly will relate my remarks to the Bill.  I  was quoting what was written by  Mr Maximilian  Walsh. He said: 
All the time he has played to the gallery for laughs. What was for the first few days of Parliament an understandable self-indulgence in paying off a few scores has become a tasteless exercise in histrionics. 
My point is that the Government's contempt for democracy extends into this Parliament, and therefore this chamber must be very careful about accepting any proposed amendments to the Electoral Act which would perpetuate this Government in office. During the course of this debate one Labor Party supporter - I think it was  Senator Gietzelt  - referred to amendments made to the New South Wales Electoral Act by a Labor administration. He went to great lengths to instance the defeat of the Renshaw Government in 1965 as a case to prove just how fair and democratic the Labor Party was in New South Wales. Of course he did not spell out exactly what he meant by that remark. Everybody knows that the Renshaw Government was very narrowly defeated in 1965. The truth is that it polled only 43 per cent of the votes. Only 43 per cent of the electors of New South Wales wanted a Labor government in 1965 and 57 per cent did not. Yet, the Australian Labor Party almost won the New South Wales elections in 1965.  Senator Gietzelt  tried to lead the Senate to believe that the defeat of the Renshaw Government in 1965 was an argument in support of how democratic the Labor Party is in New South Wales. 
1 am not defending  Sir Robert  Askin at all. He can defend himself. I will tell the honourable senator something else. What I say in this House I will support outside it. I will not put up an argument in the Senate for one course of action in respect of electoral proposals and then go round the corridors after and skite about how well I fought for proportional representation in my own Party. 
The test of the value of the present Bill is whether its provisions advance the cause of democracy. Does it help in any way to achieve electoral justice? The answer to that question is no; it does not. Firstly, the Government proposes to replace the longstanding 20 per cent variation above and below the quota with a 10 per cent variation. In passing, I should note that the last Labor Federal Government, the Chifley Labor Government, accepted the 20 per cent variation when it initiated its 1948 electoral redistribution. Secondly, the Government proposes to abolish all reference to area, density and sparsity of population, remoteness or distance, from consideration by the distribution commissioners when they redraw electoral boundaries. On the question of quota, the DLP feels that the rapid changes in population in Australia, and the need for stability, justify the present arrangements. All honourable senators will be aware that the- 20 per cent variation establishes the limits that the Parliament permits to the commissioners. It is not a compulsory variation. The commissioners are not bound to use the full variation. They are permitted, but not compelled. 
I turn now to the question of deleting from the Act all reference to area, density and sparsity of population, remoteness or distance. When this Bill received its second reading in another place, it was quite clearly demonstrated that in New South Wales, the State that I represent, the Government could not establish its argument that rural interests were being outrageously over-represented in Parliament. As a matter of fact, as  Senator Carrick  pointed out earlier, by balancing out in New South Wales the average number of electors in non-metropolitan divisions against the average number in metropolitan divisions, it was found that the value of a country vote was equal to 1.06 of a metropolitan vote. Surely the distribution commissioners must be congratulated for the high degree of fairness that time has shown they have exercised in drawing these boundaries. If the difference between the value of city votes and country votes is the tiny margin that I have mentioned, the Parliament in 1965 was well justified, as I see it, in writing into the Act concern for electors living in divisions vaster than some of the largest nations of Europe, peopled by a thinly scattered population, remote from the great population centres of the Australian seaboard. It is not my purpose to speak any longer than I have done. I urge the Senate, despite the threats of a bullying Prime Minister, to reject the Bill now before it. 
I rise to indicate the attitude of the members of my Party, the Australian Democratic Labor Party, to the Prices Justification Bill. I say at the outset that we will not oppose the Bill and that we will vote for it. But we are of the opinion that unless side by side with this measure there is some attempt to prevent collusive practices between major employer groups and monopoly unions, which result in increased prices. This Bill, as proposed, will have no effect whatever on the problem of inflation to which the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  referred in his second reading speech. I do not propose to go into any detail on the Bill. Every economist of note has expressed opposition to it. One Opposition  speaker  after another has covered the whole area of the Bill. What I want to say is that the Democratic Labor Party Leader  (Senator Gair)  wrote to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  suggesting that he might incorporate in this Bill proposals which were in a Bill that I introduced on behalf of my Party back in October 1972. It was a Bill to restrict increases in prices of certain goods and services resulting from the making of industrial agreements between employers and employees. 
I say at the outset that my Party accepts the principle of genuine negotiation between unionists and employers and believes that wage increases are often perfectly legitimate. But what we say is that every consent agreement reached between unions and employers, whether made privately or within the arbitration system must be registered with a commissioner for trade practices. It is a well known fact that unions in monopoly positions and employer groups in monopoly positions such as in the stevedoring industry, the metal trades industry and other key industries enter into consent agreements. The employers know full well that they can pass on the cost of the additional wage rises or improved condition costs by way of increased prices. If the Government wants to tackle inflation, we say that one of the first steps that must be taken is to prevent these practices from continuing. I repeat that we are not opposed to consent agreements. What we are opposed to is collusion between employers and employees when the employers know full well that they can pass on the increased cost. Because of that, I on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party introduced a Bill in October 1972. We reintroduced the Bill in the present session and it is on the notice paper. We offered it to the Government on 2 occasions. Since the Government has not accepted those proposals, whilst we will not vote against this Bill, I think I ought to remind the Senate of some of the provisions of the Prices Limitation Bill that we proposed on 31 October 1972. 
I am only with the Government to this extent: We believe that every consent agreement made between unions and [ employers, whether made privately or within the arbitration system, ought to be registered with a commissioner for trade practices. Where it can be shown that increases in prices following such agreements were not brought about by them, they would be in order. But where the employer concerned could not prove that price increases made, say 200 days after the completion of the agreement were not the result of such an agreement he would run the risk of a fine of up to $10,000. Had our Bill been accepted by the Prime Minister - it certainly was not - we believe it would not have affected the capacity of unions to negotiate freely within the arbitration system. It would not have limited the rights of unions to demand either increased wages or better conditions. But it would have required increased wages or the cost of improved conditions to come out of the profits of the employer concerned and would not permit them to be passed on to the consumer by way of increased prices. 
I repeat that unless this Bill contains such provisions as I have outlined, it will not be effective. As I said earlier, while we will not vote against the Bill - we will vote for it - we will subsequently press to introduce the Prices Limitation Bill in order to limit price increases. Having said that, I repeat what I said at the beginning of my remarks: We will not vote against the Bill. We agree with what the economists have said about it. But since the Government claims to have a mandate, we are prepared to let the Bill pass and will vote for it. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What was the purpose of the meeting between Lord Vestey and the Attorney-General in London on Tuesday, 23 January 1973. 
Was the meeting simply held to arrange an unnecessary telephone call between Lord Vestey and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, as indicated in an article contained in the 'Melbourne Age' of 25 January. 

 Senator MURPHY- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) The meeting was held at the request of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Its purpose was to ensure that all possible steps were taken to ensure that the land rights of the Gurindji people would be met by the grant of an appropriate area of land. 
 I wish to say at the outset that the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  went to great pains at the commencement of his second reading speech to say that the Bill was part of a proposal for a radical transformation of industrial relations in Australia. He then devoted about li pages of his second reading speech to talking about the Government setting up a special committee of inquiry to ensure that policies and procedures for the handling of labour relations will be suitable for our needs over the next decade. He went on to say that the committee of inquiry will examine thoroughly all aspects of indus.trial relations. Of course, the truth of the matter is that the Bill makes no worthwhile contribution whatsoever to either industrial Relations or reform of the arbitration system, which the Minister indicated in his second reading speech was the reason for the introduction of the Bill. The simple fact of the matter is that the Bill is nothing more than a sham and a delusion. Let me assure the Senate that this Bill will not receive the support of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
As I have pointed out, the Minister devoted about li pages of his second reading speech to dealing with a proposal for a committee to inquire into all aspects of industrial relations. I say here and now without any fear of hesitation that the committee will be nothing more than a device to remove the thorny problem of industrial relations from the scene until after the next election. The Government hopes it will allow the Minister for Labour to sweep the problems under the carpet. The Bill is nothing more than a pay-off to the extreme left and Communist-dominated sections of the Labor movement. It was first promised on 2 June by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when addressing the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. 
The value of this Bill to that Union can be clearly seen from the fact that the Union donated $25,000 to the Australian Labor Party's campaign funds after hearing what  Mr Whitlam  had to say. The proof of that is to be found in a speech made by  Senator Gair  to the National Press Club in Canberra prior to the last election in which he produced the minutes of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, which showed quite clearly that it was not until  Mr Whitlam  gave a clear undertaking as to what the Bill would provide - the abolition of the penal provisions from the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and so forth - that it agreed to hand over $25,000. I can understand why the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union is particularly pleased with the introduction of this Bill. I can understand why  Mr Laurie  Carmichael, the effective leader of the Union, would be particularly pleased.  Mr Carmichael,  be it noted, is not a member of the Labor Party but a member of the National Committee of the Communist Party. 
Yes, ooh! It was only after  Mr Carmichaels  union had extracted the promise from  Mr Whitlam  that the Australian Labor Party would abolish all the penal provisions from the present legislation if it were elected to office that it was prepared to, and in fact did, hand over $25,000 to the Labor Party for its election campaign.  Mr Carmichael  should be very pleased indeed with 3 of the provisions of the Bill. He would certainly be pleased with the proposal to remove all the penal provisions from the present legislation. He would be pleased with the removal of all the democratic provisions required under the present legislation for union amalgamation ballots. As the Bill seeks to destroy the effect of the clean ballot legislation that was introduced by the Chifley Government to deal with union manipulators and ballot riggers, he would also be pleased. Is it any wonder that  Mr Carmichael  and a union such as the union he leads are happy with the provisions of this Bill? 
Let us examine the provisions of the Bill. It is worth noting that the removal of the penal provisions from the Conciliation and Arbitration Act will result in the communist union leaders achieving the major objective they have set for themselves over the last 20 years. I repeat, for the sake of emphasis: Is it any wonder that the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union was prepared to hand over $25,000 to the. campaign funds of the Australian Labor Party when such a promise was made? Before explaining what the Democratic Labor Party regards as being the most damaging omissions from or features of the Bill, I propose to look at a number of the changes that the Minister has proposed. The first one of note is that the Bill seeks to enlarge the objects of the Act by adding to section 2 of the principal Act proposed paragraph (f), which states:  to encourage the democratic control of organisations so registered and the fullest participation by members of such an organisation in the affairs of the organisation. 
Honourable senators will find on going to the body of the Bill that it not only fails in this new objective but in reality goes in the opposite direction. The second point which is of concern to the Democratic Labor Party is that the objects of the Act are sought to be varied from encouraging conciliation and arbitration to the new verbiage, 'encourage and provide the means for conciliation'. However, none of the means is provided for in the Bill. The words 'in settlement of industrial disputes' in section 2 (d) of the principal Act, are to be. changed to 'for the prevention or settlement of industrial disputes'. The Bill appears to .be designed, if anything, to pro mote industrial disputes. All penal powers are removed and it does nothing at all to strengthen the Act or to give the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission any power whatsoever to deal with strikes, including political strikes which have no bearing on industrial matters at all. I refer to such political strikes as the one going on presently concerning the French nuclear tests. The Minister has said that this Bill will make a worthwhile contribution to industrial relations. Let me repeat what I said earlier: I think it is a sham and a delusion. 
Let me now turn to the question of union amalgamations.  Senator James.  McClelland made reference, as the Minister did in his second reading speech, to the. number of unions in Australia. The Minister said that in December 1970 there were 305 separate trade unions in Australia. He went on to say: 
Of the 305 unions, T52 had less than 1,000 members; another 96 had between  1,000  and 5,000 members; 34 between 5,000 and 20,000; . . . 
He said that in fact only 14 . unions had a membership of more than 50,000. These - figures ignore the fact that approximately 65 per cent of all Australian unionists are members of 21 unions. Apart from that, the drive towards amalgamation is not directed at absorbing small unions but rather to bringing together the large and medium sized unions into some concentrated body, which would be to the detriment of the rank" and file members' of those unions. The attitude of my Party to union amalgamations is, I think, clear. We do not oppose union amalgamation. All we say is that there ought to be proper safeguards to prevent the amalgamation of unions by stealth. The case of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, which was so keen to contribute $25,000 to the Austraiian Labor Party election campaign, funds, 'was one amalgamation which was brought about by stealth. As a matter of fact, the ballot that brought about the amalgamation was conducted and counted by the union officials themselves, many of whom were members of the Communist Party. Union funds and resources were used to support the amalgamation; none were used to argue the case against the amalgamation. 
Only 16 per cent of all the members of the unions involved voted in favour of the amalgamation. The question then is whether 16 per cent is sufficient. Apparently the Government thinks it is because the Government wants to remove from the Act those provisions requiring the proper democratic procedures to be followed before unions can amalgamate. The Act does, not go as far as we would like it to go. We say it should provide that an amalgamation cannot, take place unless and until more than half the membership of the union votes for it. We do not believe that the Act as it presently stands is good enough when it requires only half the union members to vote in a ballot and when the majority of these can carry the vote. Nevertheless, that situation is a darned site better than the one the Government proposes. The Government's proposal would destroy what democratic procedures are left in relation to union amalgamations. For that' reason, if for no other, we would vote against this Bill. 
I do not propose to cover the. whole ambit of the Bill but the third matter  upon  which I want to touch concerns clean union ballots. If it had not been for. the Chifley Government in 1947 which , took positive steps to prevent union ballot rigging, there would be no way of dealing with this menace of crooked balloting in particular unions. Surely any person who claims to be a democrat will agree that union officials ought to be elected only in properly supervised ballots, and that those ballots which are open to rigging ought to be properly supervised. There are honourable senators on the other side of the chamber, including  Senator Mulvihill  and  Senator James  McClelland, who know full well what this means. In the days when I was a member of the Labor Party  Senator James  McClelland was fighting to have this ballot system introduced to ensure proper safeguards in union elections. One of the main objections we have to this Bill is that it would destroy the effects of the clean ballot provisions that were introduced in the first instance by the Chifley Government. It is wrong for people outside the unions to interfere in union affairs. It certainly is not wrong for a government to safeguard the rights of rank and file members of unions. That is why the Chifley legislation was introduced in the first place. That is why it has served so well, and that is why it ought not to be removed now. 
The Government's proposal would prevent an Industrial Registrar from conducting amalgamation ballots unless he was requested to do so by the organisation or by petition of the members of the organisation. Once this provision is removed, if it is removed, can honourable senators imagine the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, which did so well out of the inaction of the previous Government, then asking the Industrial Registrar to conduct such a ballot?. 
If the majority of the union members want amalgamation then  1  am for it. But I want to ensure that each member of the union has a right to vote in a properly supervised ballot. I want to ensure also that the case for the amalgamation as well as the case against it is put to the union membership. I do not believe - and surely  Senator Mulvihill  does really not believe - that union funds ought, to be used to propagate one side of the argument, namely, why the amalgamation ought to . take place. Surely the case against the amalgamation ought to be put also. If honourable .senators, opposite are the democrats they claim to be, would they not want to see both sides put? What would we think of a referendum in which only one argument was put. to the voters? 
What do you mean by saying that it is a private organisation? Registered unions are not a private organisation. Workers are compelled to belong to unions by the sheer coercive power of unions, and  Senator Wheeldon  says that a union is a private organisation which can do as it pleases. What utter nonsense! The next point I want to raise in relation to union amalgamations is that the Bill removes the necessity for postal voting and secret ballots, and allow ballots to be conducted - these are the words used in the Bill - 'in accordance with any rules of the organisation that are applicable'. The Bill deletes the provision that. a membership roll be compiled on which is included those persons who are members or were members of the union when the Registrar gave his approval of the proposed scheme of amalgamation. It leaves it to the union officials to define who are the financial members. It removes the provisions prescribing that the conditions to apply to a ballot shall be those of the regulations. It enables no limit to be placed on the number of small organisations which may be amalgamated into a large organisation without a ballot of the members of a union involved. It repeals section 158l of the Act which gives members of the organisation a reasonable opportunity to put a counter point of view to that of the officers seeking amalgamation. It repeals section 158n which enables 50 per cent plus one of those actually voting in the amalgamation ballot to determine the issue. 
I remind honourable senators of the Australian Engineering Union ballot. It was the dominant union in the proposed amalgamation. It had more than 2,000 members yet the ballot for amalgamation involved only 9 per cent of its total membership. In other words, fewer than one in ten members of the AEU voted in the actual ballot. I wonder how many members of the union did not even know that the ballot was being held. If the Government claims to be the champion of unionists and of the rights of unionists, why does it want to take from the unionist his right to decide what happens to his union. In the case of companies being taken over by another company, 90 per cent of the shareholders have to vote for the takeover. Why does the same thing not apply to a trade union? Why should a member of a trade union find himself deprived of his union merely because he did not know a ballot was being taken on the question of amalgamation and, if he did, what safeguards has he? Does he know that his vote is counted properly? Why would the Government not want to see the retention of the present provisions whereby the unionist has the right to know what the amalgamation is about, and has the right to vote in a properly supervised ballot, with at least half the members voting before the amalgamation can take place? I stated earlier that the Democratic Labor Party believes that there should be a requirement that 50 per cent of the members of a union must vote in favour of an amalgamation Before it can take place. 
I am not proposing that it should be made compulsory; I am saying that if unionists do not vote, why should it be assumed that they want amalgamation? Would honourable senators argue that in the Case of a referendum? 
In the case of a referendum, if I did not vote for the proposition, does that mean that I want it? 
All right. There is not compulsory voting in union elections and I am not proposing that. What I am saying is that a union should not be permitted to be taken over by another union by stealth. The present Act does not go as far as we would like it to go but it does provide that there must be 50 per cent plus one voting before a ballot is effective and that a majority of those voting vote for the amalgamation. More importantly, the present Act provides that a ballot be supervised, not by union officials who are concerned with the amalgamation, but by the industrial registrar. Why would the Government want to remove that provision? What is its reason for it? Why would the Government want to promise  Mr Carmichael,  who got his big union by stealth, that it will enable the same thing to be done in future with other unions? Is it because the Government received $25,000 for its promise? I am not suggesting that, but I am suggesting - - 
Well, the Government took it. What would supporters of the Government say if the Democratic Labor Party took it? What a squeal there would be I am saying, and I repeat it, that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  first promised this Bill on 2 June at a meeting of the Amalgamated  Metalworkers  Union and, in return for the promise, that union contributed $25,000 to the. Australian Labor Party's campaign funds. 
If  Senator Cant  wants the minutes of that meeting,  Senator Gair  has them. If it is not true, one would have expected some denial before this, but there have been no denials. I repeat that in no circumstances will the DLP support this Bill. It is not a Bill designed to bring about needed reforms in the arbitration system. It makes no worthwhile contribution to industrial relations or to improving the Act. It is a sham and a delusion,and. for that reason we will vote against it. , 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. It concerns reports today of the trial of 2 men in Yugoslavia. Are the 2 men Australian citizens? If they are Australian citizens, why was the Australian Embassy in Yugoslavia not informed of their detention and trial? What provision is being made for observers to be present at the trial and for the 2 men to have adequate legal representation? Finally, will the AttorneyGeneral give an undertaking that no papers or documents seized in recent police raids have been or will be provided to the Yugoslav authorities for use by the prosecution in this case? 
I ask the Attorney-General whether he can confirm or deny the report appearing in the Adelaide edition of the 'Australian' newspaper this morning to the effect that he has instructed that the Special Branch of the 
Northern Territory Police be disbanded forthwith? Will he also confirm or deny the claim made in the same newspaper that the Special Branch of the Australian Capital Territory Police also is under a cloud, as the newspaper put it? Is it a fact that the order to close down the Northern Territory Special Branch was received by the Northern Territory Police on Thursday night or Friday morning and that the police were given until 5 p.m. on Friday to disband the Branch and to destroy its records? If the Minister gave no such order will he investigate whether an official under his authority gave such an order? 
Does the Minister for Repatriation, who is also the minister assisting the Minister for Defence, recall election assurances that a Labor Government would provide greatly expanded work for Australian defence industries? How does he reconcile this pledge with last night's announcement of major reductions in defence spending and the abolition of 7,000 defence jobs? Does the Minister agree the the scrapping of the DDL destroyer project and the failure to replace the Mirage aircraft will severely disrupt and reduce work available in our dockyards and in the aircraft industry? Is the Minister happy to find himself now presiding over the disman  tling of Australia's defence and the displacement of thousands of Australian workers from their jobs? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What is the Minister's attitude to the insulting and lawless treatment given by students at La Trobe University yesterday to Counsellor Quang of the Embassy of the Republic of Vietnam when he appeared at the university as a guest  speaker  for a student club? Is the Minister concerned at the failure of the university authorities to afford this diplomatic representative of a foreign country the protection to which he was justly entitled when a section of students prevented him from speaking by tactics of personal menace and harassment and physical assault to his property? What action does the Government intend to take to ensure that the right to be heard is preserved for foreign diplomats when invited to universities as guest speakers? Finally, does the Australian Government intend to apologise to the South Vietnamese Government for the scandalous treatment given to Counsellor Quang? 
I preface my question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs by saying that the Minister will be well aware of the severe losses inflicted upon thousands of investors, large and small, as a result of the failure of the Alexander Barton group of companies. What action can the Minister take to assist the New South Wales Government to locate  Mr Barton?  What action, if any, can he take to ensure that  Mr Barton  returns to Australia to assist in the investigations? 
Is the Minister for Repatriation aware that, due to earlier revaluations of the Australian dollar, many British ex-servicemen who are now living in Australia and who are in receipt of British war pensions had their pensions drastically reduced? Is the Minister further aware that last Sunday's revaluation will reduce such pensions further? Can the Minister say how many British ex-servicemen in receipt of British w?' pensions are presently resident in Australia? Is the Government giving consideration to any scheme whereby these pensions can be restored to their previous value? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Minister aware of newspaper reports of the Prime Minister's Press conference yesterday in which the Prime Minister stated that he did not propose to protest to the Soviet authorities about their treatment of intellectuals? It would seem from newspaper reports that the Soviet Government may be about to take punitive action against the nuclear scientist Andrei Sakharov only on the ground that he applied to emigrate to Israel. Because of this information, and in view of the Prime Minister's reply, will the Minister undertake to discuss with the Prime Minister the possibility of the Prime Minister reconsidering the whole question of whether or not he should protest to the Soviet authorities? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether his attention has been drawn to the letter written by  Dr Sakharov  to the United States Congress appealing to Congress to block trade concessions to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics unless it allows free emigration of its citizens. Will the Minister re-examine his answer to my question last week when he said that restrictions placed on Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union was an internal matter? Does the Minister agree with  Dr Sakharov  that the free movement of peoples is not an internal matter but a fundamental principle of international law? Does the Minister agree with  Dr Sakharov  's view that: 
The refusal to follow a policy based on principle would amount to a betrayal of thousands of people, Jews and nonJews alike who wish to emigrate; hundreds in the camps and psychiatric hospitals; and the sacrifices of the Berlin Wall. 
Will the Minister assure the Senate that the Government will heed  Dr Sakharov's  appeal in relation to Australia's own trade dealings with the USSR? 

 - Mr President, I wish to ask a supplementary question. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Repatriation, who represents the Minister for Labour in this chamber, by saying that prior to the last election members of the Australian Labor Party were saying that under a Whitlam Government there would be less industrial unrest because Labor knew more about the way unions worked. What, if anything, is the Government doing about the series of postal strikes which are seriously disrupting business and communications within Australia? Secondly, what, if anything, is the Government doing to assist in bringing to an end the strike at Sydney 
Airport which is seriously disrupting the nation's air traffic? 
I rise to inform the Senate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party will vote for this Bill. I understand that an arrangement has been made to facilitate its passage so I do not intend to speak at any length. I want to make one point. The Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  promised in his policy speech to raise pensions at least to the level of 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings. The $ 1 .50 rise provided in this Bill is hardly sufficient to meet the rise in consumer prices. The Government's action in limiting the increase to $ 1 .50 per half year must limit the money value of the increase in the pension to 1 1.4 per cent in this financial year. If pensions rise at only 1 1.4 per cent, their value as a proportion of the average weekly wage will continue to fall. This makes a hollow mockery of the Government's promise to raise pensions to a level of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. I repeat what I said at the beginning: My Party nevertheless will vote for this Bill and facilitate its passage. 
My "question is directed to the Minister representing, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has his attention been drawn to newspaper reports-last weekend that the Palestinian Liberation Movement has established a 20-storey headquarters in East Berlin? Will the Minister undertake to obtain from the Minister for Foreign Affairs details of the extent of the support by communist regimes for Arab terrorists and provide that information to the Senate in the form of a statement? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation whether the Government intends to refer the reported rise in air fares to the Prices Justification Tribunal? If not, does this indicate that the Government regards itself as being above the rules it lays down for private enterprise? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour. I preface it by saying that the Minister would be aware that hundreds of thousands of people in New South Wales - 
The Democratic Labor Party will oppose the increases in charges. We will call for a division on the first question, to demonstrate our position but in order to save time we will not call for a division from then on. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour. I preface it by saying that the Minister would be aware that hundreds of thousands of people in New South Wales have been seriously inconvenienced and upset by the repeated blackouts in New South Wales. As the Minister for Labour has expressed himself in favour of a 35-hour week in the power industry, does he approve of the methods used by power industry union officials in New South Wales to gain the 35-hour week? 
-I rise to indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party will be voting against the post and telegraph legislation. We will seek to defeat the 
Bills at the second reading stage. I know that there are some proposed amendments to which the Government and Opposition Leader have agreed. Some of them are not quite clear. I read in the Hansard of the other place that the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  indicated that it was necessary to make some of these amendments because of what he described as the irresponsible attitude of the Democratic Labor Party in respect of the increases in postal charges. There seems to be a large number of irresponsible people if the telegrams that I have received on this matter are any indication. The Senate will recall that a fortnight ago I announced that I would seek the support of my Party to oppose the increases in postal charges. Since then I have received a large number of telegrams from all sorts of people and organisations, including trade unions.  Senator McAuliffe  referred to the Australian Workers Union. He gave the impression that the Australian Workers Union should be quite happy with the new charges; that after all is said and done it has not been treated too badly. But that is certainly not the view of the New South Wales general secretary of the Union,  Mr Charles  Oliver, whose telegram to me was in the following terms: 
Worker' cannot survive proposed postal charges. Support any proposal guaranteeing continued publication of Worker'. 
It is some gratification to me to find that, having initiated these moves, my Party has succeeded in having the Government make some amendments to the proposals anyway. Among other telegrams I have received is one from the Parents and Citizens Association which refers to the fact that it represents more than 80,000 members and urges that the postal increases be rejected. So much for the alleged irresponsible attitude of the Democratic Labor Party. Those comments apply also to all religious bodies. I have had approaches from the Methodists, the Congregationalists and indeed all sections of the religious Press, as well as trade houses, trade journals, the Small Shopkeepers As sociation and so on. So it is some gratification to me to know that the Government is now moving to rectify at least some aspects of the increases in postal charges. I think it is quite shameful that the Government, which first of all set up a royal commission to examine all aspects of the PostmasterGeneral's Department, savagely increases the charges, as the Government now proposes to do, before the royal commission has had time to bring in its report 
Let it be known that the Government not only is proposing to increase charges directly but also is using metrication as a means of increasing those charges despite the fact that it has urged private enterprise not to do that son of thing. Let us look at the effect of this. The proposed letter rate will be increased by means of metrication by 100 per cent. This means that a 28 gram letter, that is, one oz approximately, now costing 7c will increase by 15 per cent. This will occur despite the fact that last financial year the Postmaster-General's Department showed a profit of $9m on the letter rate. This dishonesty is reflected throughout the proposed postal charges. Let us look at some of the other rates. The 2 oz rate is now 12c, but it is proposed that from 1 October 1973 that will rise to 15c. There is a weight variation of 12.5 per cent, and a cost increase of 25 per cent. The second oz weight step is now 5c, but this will be increased to 8c, an amount of 60 per cent. In respect of other articles the 2 oz to 4 oz letter rate charge is now 12c, but from 1 October 1973 it will be increased to 15c. So, too, in respect of parcels. Within a 30-mile radius of a post office the 2 lb parcel rate is 35c, but it will increase in respect of the weight variation by 10 per cent and in respect of the cost variation by 30 per cent. 
The increased postal charges also affect very substantially the printing and allied industries and could well cause the loss of the jobs of many men in these industries. Let us look at some of the increases which affect them. Books printed in Australia are feeling the effect of pretty keen competition from publications printed overseas, particularly in Asian countries. If the Government has its way, Australian printed books will be faced with savage increases of up to 17.5 per cent. For example, a 750 gram book now costs 31c, whereas the increase proposed by the Government will bring this up to 85c. Referring again to mail, for the sake of emphasis let me say a letter weighing between 20 grams and 28 grams will cost 15c if the Government has its way, as against the existing 7c. The cost of posting a letter weighing from 28 grams to 50 grams will increase from 12c to 15c and of one weighing from 50 grams to 56 grams from 12c to 20c. It is quite an illogical situation that it will cost 7c to mail the first 20 grams but 8c to mail the second 20 grams when there is practically no extra cost to the Post Office in handling the extra 20 grams. 
Another item of savage is the preposterous cost of landlines and its effect on country broadcasting stations. I have here a letter from Manning Valley Broadcasting Pty Ltd which points out that, as landline costs together with news and sporting charges are the largest item of expenditure, apart from salaries and wages, of a country radio station, it views with concern any increase in these charges. It is led to believe that the increase could be somewhere between 40 per cent and 70 per cent. That company in its letter went on to point out: 
The extra costs will send more stations into the red. (The latest Control Board Report shows 19 stations operated at a loss in 1971-72.) 
The impact will be greatest on country broadcasting stations, which depend on relay facilities for services such as news, sport and other programs. At the moment country broadcasting stations endeavour to give a metropolitan service in respect of news and sport. 
If stations are forced to reduce or give up these relays, their local communities will suffer a loss of program variety and choice. 
Many communities could end up with no alternative to the ABC news. 
By regulations, I understand. It is for these reasons that my Party will vote against the Bills and seek to defeat all 3 of them at the second reading stage. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Is the Minister for Minerals and Energy aware of the front page news item in today's 'Australian' by Bryan Frith? Does the Minister know that the report states that  Mr Millner, Chairman  of Queensland Mines, claims that $40m has already been lost because of the lack of a stated Government policy on uranium and a refusal to renew the uranium companies' licence to explore? Is the Minister aware of the widespread uncertainty throughout industry caused by the Government's decision? When will the Government issue a coherent statement on its policy regarding the renewal of mining companies ' licences which were due for renewal on 3 1 December last? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of reports that in the hours immediately before the outbreak of war in the Middle East the Israeli 
Government, with United States diplomatic help, sought to avert hostilities? Is he aware that the Israeli Government offered assurances to the Egyptian and Soviet governments of its peaceful intention, in the hope of preventing an outbreak of hostilities? Does the Minister agree that despite the Israeli efforts, as the United Nations observers have reported, it was Egyptian and Syrian forces which commenced the hostilities by attacking Israeli positions across the cease fire zone along the Suez Canal and the Golan Heights? Does the Minister agree that attacks by Egypt and Syria on Israeli positions are a grave threat to world stability? Will the Government instruct its representatives at the United Nations to condemn those attacks as endangering world peace? Finally, will Australia use its influence at the Security Council to bring world pressure on Egypt and Syria to withdraw their forces and to agree to realistic negotiations for a Middle East settlement? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the letter written by Andrei Sakharov to the Congress of the United States of America appealing to it to black trade concessions granted to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, unless that country allows the free emigration of its citizens. 
Did the Attorney-General, in an answer to a Question asked without Notice by  Senator Kane  on 12 September 1973, reply that restrictions placed on Jewish emigration from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics was an 'internal matter'. 
Does the Minister agree with Sakharov that the free movement of peoples is not an internal matter but a fundamental principle of international law. 
Does the Minister agree with Sakharov 's view that 'the refusal to follow a policy based on principle would amount to a betrayal of thousands of people, Jews and non-Jews alike, who wish to emigrate; to hundreds in the camps and psychiatric hospitals; and the sacrifices of the Berlin Wall ', 
Will the Minister assure the Senate that the Australian Government will heed Sakharov 's appeal in Australia's trade dealings with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister undertake not to increase taxation during the first year his Party was in office. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that, according to Government figures, there are 7.S million life insurance policies in force in Australia, and that, the average sum insured per policy is less than $4,000. 
Does the Prime Minister agree that the average sum insured of $4,000 per policy is evidence of the fact that the ownership of policies is wide-spread throughout the community. 
Is the Prime Minister further aware that by increasing tax charges on mutual life insurance companies, in some cases, double and in others almost treble the Government will in effect cause the bonuses paid to policy holders to be reduced by up to 20 per cent. 
Are these actions by the Government a way of increasing taxes on the ordinary working man who holds a life insurance policy. 

 -Mr President, I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
1 ) That the Senate, noting reports- 
that in the hours immediately before the outbreak of war in the Middle East, the Israeli Government with United States diplomatic help sought to avert hostilities, 
that Israel offered  assurances  to both the Egyptian and Soviet Governments of its peaceful intentions in the hope of preventing an outbreak of hostilities, and 
that despite these Israeli efforts United Nations observers have reported that it was Egyptian and Syrian forces which commenced hostilities by attacking Israeli positions on the ceasefire lines along the Suez Canal and the Golan Heights. views these attacks by Egypt and Syria on Israeli positions as a grave threat to world stability. 
That the Senate condemns these attacks as endangering world peace; and accordingly, the Senate calls on the Australian Government to use its influence in the Security Council to bring world pressure to bear on Egypt and Syria to withdraw their forces behind the 1967 ceasefire lines and agree to realistic negotiations for a Middle East settlement based on Israel's right to existence. 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for Labour agree with the Prime Minister's attack on those unions opposing power over incomes in the coming referendum? I refresh the Minister's memory by reminding him that yesterday the Prime Minister stated: 
Some are spending more money opposing incomes power than in supporting prices power. 
Does the Minister representing the Treasurer agree that when credit is rationed it is the middle and upper income earners who get preference from lending institutions for housing finance? Does the Minister agree that the present restrictions will force many low income earners out of the market for housing finance? Is the Government aware of the injustice of a credit policy which discriminates against low income earners who desire finance to buy homes? In the present situation of lighter credit, what steps has the Government taken to protect against discrimination those low income earners, especially the young, who are not at present buying homes but who will want home finance? 

 - Mr President, I would like to add a few words to my notice of motion. Could you guide me as to whether I should seek leave to do so? 
I ask the Attorney-General whether he is aware of a report in today's 'Sydney Morning Herald' which states that  Mr Kilgariff  alleged in the Northern Territory Legislative Council yesterday that the hero of the Alice Springs hijacking, Constable Paul San.deman, was being treated shoddily. What compensation, if any, has been offered to Constable Sandeman? Have representations been made to the Attorney-General about the constable? If so, what has the Attorney-General done to recompense Constable Sandeman who still has 2 bullets in his body and who, as a result, will not be promoted because doctors say that he is only 50 per cent effective? If no representations have been made will the Attorney-General have the matter investigated and report back to the Senate? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the Minister's assurance of 9 October as reported at page 1082 of Hansard that the Australian Government has made known to the Soviet Government Australia 's belief in the fundamental human right of free immigration of a nation's citizens. I ask the Minister What were the occasions and on what dates did the Australian Government make its attitude known to the Soviet Government on this matter? At what diplomatic level was the attitude of the Australian Government put to the Soviet Government? In the making of its attitude known to the Soviet Government, did the Australian Government specify restrictions on Jewish immigration from the Soviet Union as an instance of denial of this fundamental human right? If so, on what occasion, on what date and at what diplomatic or government level was this done? Did the Australian Government protest, that is, did it make a formal statement of dissent or disapproval, to the Soviet Government specifically concerning that Government's refusal to allow free immigration of Jewish citizens of the Soviet Union? If so, on what occasions, on what date and at what diplomatic or government level was this done? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will vote for this Bill at the second reading stage and like  Senator Greenwood  we will be seeking amendments during the Committee stage. I do not propose to go into this Bill in any great detail at the moment It seems to me that I would be wasting time to talk now if we are to debate this legislation in detail during the Committee stage. However, I would like to raise a couple of points. The first question I want to deal with concerns union amalgamations which the Bill proposes. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  when referring to unions and the question of union amalgamation during his second reading speech on this Bill, which is recorded on page 659 of Hansard of 30 August, said: 
They see no merit - 
He was referring to members of the Opposition - in having 305 unions in Australia when in Germany, with 61 million people, they have only 1 6 unions. 
The Minister went on to develop the point that there ought to be fewer and bigger unions. In April when the Bill was first introduced the Minister went to greater lengths to deal with the question of unions, membership and so forth. He said that at the end of December 1970 there were 305 separate unions in Australia and that of these 305 unions 152 had fewer than 1,000 members, another 96 had between 1,000 and 5,000 members and 34 had between 5,000 and 20,000 members. He said that there were only 14 unions with a membership of over 20,000. The truth is that these figures ignore the fact that approximately 65 per cent of unionists are members of 2 1 unions. In addition, the drive towards amalgamation is not directed towards absorbing smaller unions or putting smaller unions together to make bigger unions. The drive is towards bringing together large and strategically placed unions for the specific purpose of concentrating power in their hands. 
Honourable senators will recall that the former Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr Lynch,  outlined, in December 1971, I think it was, some proposals for amendment of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. We members of the Democratic Labor Party crossed swords with the then Government on this matter of union amalgamations. Subsequently there were some compromises and the then Government introduced alternative legislation relating to union amalgamations. What we primarily were concerned about then was the giant Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. It was being brought into being by the amalgamation of the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the Sheet Metal Workers Union and the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society. It was proposed at the same time to amalgamate 2 other groups of unionsthose in the building trades and those in the maritime industry. There would have been a membership of something like 367,000 workers in those 3 union groupings and they would have had an income of something like $8m a year. I said then, and I repeat now, that no employer organisation in Australia could match that. The Australian Council of Trade Unions could not do so; nor could the government of the day, short of a showdown that would make the 1949 coal strike look like a Sunday school picnic. That is the reality today. 
We have made it abundantly clear that we are not opposed to union amalgamations but what we are opposed to, and will continue to be opposed to, is the amalgamation of unions by stealth. It is a matter of history that the amalgamation of the unions which now comprise the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union came about by the votes of a mere handful of people and that the people who counted the votes were involved with those who wanted the amalgamation. It was argued then that the unions concerned would get a better service; that members would be better served. Therefore, it is worth looking at what some of those union leaders have had to say about this matter so far as better service and the economies of size are concerned. The  president  of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, speaking at the Queensland State Conference of the Union on 23 February 1973, said this: 
There are complaints that they - 
That is the members- are not receiving service that they had become accustomed to in the past. Such complaints must be given very serious attention. 
He went on to say: 
We must also make further efforts to have greater participation by the rank and file in branch affairs. 
The report of the secretary to the same conference also expressed some concern. The secretary said: 
We need to provide a better service, and to do this our contributions will have to be increased. 
The secretary said also: 
Our average contribution is between 0.5 per cent and 0.6 per cent of the average pay rate and I believe to finance the organisation we need to move progressively to 1 per cent. Hence the forecast is for almost a doubling of union dues in order to provide service . . . 
Previously they had stated that amalgamation would result in better service. One thing that came out of this amalgamated body is causing some concern today in New South Wales. I refer the Senate to the activities of the National Workers Control Conference held at Newcastle during the Easter weekend. The communist Tribune' said that more than 450 workers from all over the country attended that conference and that they were concerned with the matter of worker control. The problem in the power strike, if honourable senators want to use the word strike', in New South Wales is this matter of worker control. It is not a strike in the normal sense of the word or as we know strikes. Nobody has walked off the job; nobody is not on the job. The men are being paid. However, the power workers are presenting an alternative to the New South Wales Government, and that is the alternative of worker control. This is one of the things that came out of union amalgamation and it is one of the problems that will confront this Government in the very near future. 
As I said before, my Party is not opposed to union amalgamations but we believe that when they come about they should come about only if the majority of union members want them. We believe, firstly, that the case for amalgamation as well as the case against amalgamation ought to be circulated to all union members. Is that not what we do in the case of a referendum? 
If the honourable senator will keep quiet for a minute, I will tell him something. We are hoping to hear more about the prices referendum in the next few weeks. The Constitution provides that the voter shall have before him before he votes both the case for and the case against. Our attitude to union amalgamation is that every union member should have before him before he votes a clear case for and a clear case against the amalgamation. We believe also, and will insist by way of amendments that we propose to this Bill, that the ballot, when conducted, should be supervised by people other than those who are participants in the proposed union amalgamation. We believe that before any amalgamation takes place the majority of union members ought to vote for it. If they fail to vote for it there should be no amalgamation. That has been our position. 
It is not in accordance with the provisions of the present Act, I know, because the last Government, during its term of office, amended the Act so that it included some amendments that would make it a little more democratic but not as democratic as we would like to see it. The present Act provides that before an amalgamation can take place a ballot must be held in which more than 50 per cent of the union members must participate. A majority of those voting is required before amalgamation can take place. I do not believe that that goes far enough; nor does my Party believe that it goes far enough. We believe that the entire union membership has the right to vote on the question of amalgamation and that before they vote they should have the case for and the case against amalgamation. 
If only 60 per cent of the people in the union voted, it would not be enough. 
Wait a minute. 
Fair go. Government Senators are confusing me. Never mind about local government elections. I am saying that the majority of union members ought to vote in a properly supervised ballot. 
Yes. What is more, I would make sure that the ballot was conducted properly and that each member of the union had before him before voting the case for and the case against amalgamation. Then, if the majority of the union members, that is 50 per cent plus one, voted for amalgamation, it should take place. I know that that is not what is required in the existing legislation and that what we have is a compromise. 
Wait a minute. My Party and I will settle for nothing less than a ballot in which the majority of union members vote- that is, 50 per cent plus one- in a properly supervised ballet. 
If less than 50 per cent vote in the ballot, no amalgamation should take place. I said at the beginning that it was not my intention to go into great detail in my speech in the second reading debate on this Bill. We will move amendments to the Bill at the Committee stage. We support the motion for the second reading of the Bill. 
Sitting suspended from 5.55 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of reports that in the hours immediately before the outbreak of war in the Middle East the Israeli Government, with the United States of America's diplomatic help, sought to avert the hostilities. 
Is the Minister also aware that Israel offered assurances to the Egyptian and Syrian Governments of its peaceful intentions in the hope of preventing an outbreak of hostilities. 
Does the Minister agree that, despite the Israeli efforts, United Nations observers have reported that it was Egyptian and Syrian forces which commenced hostilities by attacking Israeli positions across ceasefire lines along the Suez Canal and the Golan Heights. 
Does the Minister agree that attacks by Egypt and Syria on Israeli positions are a great threat to world stability. 
Will the Government instruct its representatives in the U United Nations to condemn those attacks as endangering world peace. 
Will Australia use its influence in the Security Council to bring world pressure on Egypt and Syria to withdraw their forces, and to agree to realistic negotiations for a Middle East settlement. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and it refers to a question which I asked him on 1 1 October last concerning Constable Sandeman, the hero of the Alice Springs hijacking. I ask the Attorney-General whether he recalls having advised me that he had asked that Constable Sandeman be brought to some other centre, if necessary, and retrained for some other position which might enable him to advance without any loss in the police force. I ask the Attorney-General whether the contents of a telegram which I received from Constable Sandeman are true. The telegram reads: 
I wish to advise as of this date - 
That is 11 October- that I have received no instruction as stated by  Senator Murphy  on the ABC news and that the Northern Territory Commissioner advised me on the 10th instant of no provision for future promotion. I am to be placed in a clerical position without compensation. 
Constable Sandeman went on to say: 
It is  my  desire to be discharged on superannuation from the police force and adequately compensated for disabilities which have been medically assessed - 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General by saying that I have noted that the Post Office made a profit last year of $4 1.2m, a drop of $ 18.6m on the previous year. Given the fact that the Post Office made this profit of $4 1.2m, what possible justification does the PostmasterGeneral have for such savage increases in postal charges? Also, what possible justification can the Government have for closing down non-official post offices in rural areas, thus depriving country people of necessary services? 
I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General whether it is a fact that Sydney lawyers, frustrated by mail delays and inefficiencies, operate what they call a city documents exchange which serves as a distributing point for inter-firm and other mail. Is it a fact that Member 427 of the city documents exchange is  Mr Lionel  Bowen, the PostmasterGeneral, and his legal partner,  Mr Gerathy? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, by saying how honoured all Australians are that  Mr Patrick  White was awarded the 1973 Nobel Prize for Literature. We all are proud that  Mr White's  writing has finally been recognised by such a distinguished body as the Royal Swedish Academy of Letters. Is the Minister aware that the Melbourne 'Sun' of 20 October reported a spokesman for the Treasurer as saying that  Mr White's  $80,000 prize might be subject to taxation? Is he also aware that the money received by people who win a lottery or a large amount of money in quiz games and the like is not subject to taxation? Does the Minister not agree that whatever steps need to be taken should be taken- even to the extent of introducing special legislation to amend the taxation legislation- to ensure that  Mr White's  Nobel Prize winnings are not subject to taxation? I might add that I have seen reports that  Mr White  is thinking of giving away his prize, but I ask my question irrespective of what  Mr White  might decide to do with his prize. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is the Attorney-General aware that in the documents tabled by him recently there is no evidence of any extremist or terrorist background to at least one of the executed men, namely Mirko Vlasnovic? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What were the occasions and dates on which the Australian Government made known its attitude on the fundamental human rights of free emigration of a nation's citizens to the Soviet Government. 
At what diplomatic level was the attitude of the Australian Government put to the Soviet Government. 
Did the Australian Government, in making its attitude known to the Soviet Government specify restrictions on Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union as an instance of the denial of this fundamental human right; if so, on what occasion, on what date, and at what diplomatic or governmental level was this done. 
Did the Australian Government protest, that is, make a formal statement of dissent or disapproval of the Soviet Government, specifically concerning that Government's refusal to allow free emigration of its Jewish citizens; if so, on what occasion, on what date, and at what diplomatic or governmental level was this done. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health concerns the free community health centre in Melba, Australian Capital Territory. How many doctors are employed at the centre and how many patients do they see each day? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is he aware of the grave hardship caused by the reduction of Arab oil supplies to many countries including Great Britain and the United States of America. Is he aware that the Saudi Arabian Petroleum Minister, Sheik Yamani, said yesterday that countries would be exempt from oil reductions in return for certain assistance to Arab nations? Does the Minister not now believe that the Australian Government should advise Egypt, in respect of its recent decision to supply Egypt with $ 1 39m worth of wheat on credit over the next 12 months, that this would be contingent upon oil supplies being maintained to Australia without reduction by the Arab nations? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister.. I preface it by saying that it is clear that in spite of assurances given by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Minerals and Energy Middle East oil prices will seriously affect the supply and price of oil to Australia. Is it not a fact that had the Government not brought about the cessation of expansion of oil production and exploration Australia would be better placed to hold off the threat of serious reduction of our oil supplies from the Middle East? Is it not also a fact that Government interference has caused serious delays in the development of natural gas, particularly in relation to the delivery of South Australian natural gas to New South Wales? Would it not be true to say that if these delays had not been brought about industry in New South Wales would have been able to offset the threat of reduction in oil supplies from the Middle East? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. How much is the free community health centre at Melba in the Australian Capital Territory at present costing in salaries and other allied costs? How much is it estimated that this centre will cost a year taking into account salaries, sick leave, holidays, maternity leave, car expenses and other allied costs? 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy agree that it is vital that Sydney, Wollongong and Newcastle industries should have an alternative industrial fuel to the Middle East crude, and that the central Australian natural gas would provide this alternative? If so, does he not now agree that the Government should abandon its insistence on building the Gidgealpa to Sydney gas pipeline itself and let the Australian Gas Light Company get on with this urgent job? 
Is the Minister representig the Minister for Minerals and Energy aware that the American House of Representatives this week legislated for 2 years' daylight saving in order to conserve oil? Is the Minister able to give the Senate some idea of what fuels are conserved in Australia at the moment as a result of a majority of the Australian States having introduced daylight saving? If the Minister cannot give the Senate this information now will he consider having an investigation made into the matter in order to ascertain the position? If the inquiries reveal a considerable saving in fuels Will the Minister consider urging the States to maintain daylight saving throughout the year? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is the Minister aware of a report in today's 'Australian' about a 15-year old Aboriginal boy in Western Australia who appeared unrepresented in the Supreme Court and the District Court yesterday? Without prejudicing the issue, will the Minister give the Senate a report from his Department on the circumstances of this case and what action, if any, the Minister can take to prevent any recurrence which, on the face of it, would seem to go against our system of justice? 
My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Transport. I preface it by remarking that I am sure that the issue of road safety is above party politics and that all honourable senators are concerned about the increasing death toll on Australian roads. I ask: Is the Minister aware of a statement made on the radio program 'A.M.' this morning by one of his colleagues in another place, the honourable member for Robertson, in which he pointed to the dangers involved in having a lot of our highways unseparated in any way? Is he aware that his colleague commented favourably on the system of autobahns whereby the main highways are separated by a divider, whether it be a grass strip or a strip of concrete or stone? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Department of Transport or any of the bodies associated with it have advocated what I will term 'dividers' on main highways, having regard to the obvious dangers of cars and trucks passing each other at high speeds when going in opposite directions with only a few inches separating them? Will the Australian Government give a lead by building dividers on the main road from Canberra to the border of the Australian Capital Territory on the Yass road and from Canberra to the border on the Federal Highway leading to Goulburn? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I ask: Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement made yesterday and reported in today's 'Australian' by  Mr P.  Sleigh, Managing Director of H. C. Sleigh Ltd? Is the Minister aware that  Mr Sleigh  has said that his company and the Broken Hill Pty Co. will drop their plans for the construction of a joint $50m oil refinery project in Newcastle? Is the Minister aware that the obstructionism of the Minister for Minerals and Energy throughout the petroleum mining and associated industries is seriously aggravating the difficulties Australia will face with the increasing world oil shortage? Will the Minister ask the Prime Minister to give serious thought to transferring the Minister for Minerals and Energy to a less sensitive portfolio? 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of the plight of the Russian ballet dancer Valery Panov who was dismissed from the Kirov Ballet and has been subjected to interrogation and imprisonment by the Soviet secret police after applying for a visa to emigrate from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to Israel? Has his attention been drawn to reports that  Mr Panov  sees public protests in the West as the best hope of securing his freedom to emigrate to Israel? Is he aware of the protest to the Kremlin by leading Western artists, including the eminent British actors Lord Olivier and Paul Scofield designed to win visas for  Mr Panov  and his wife to emigrate to Israel? In view of the Minister's general statements to the United Nations Assembly this year supporting the international agreements on human rights, will he undertake to protest to the Soviet Government specifically about its refusal to let the Panovs go to Israel? If so, will he make public the text of his protest? 
Does the Minister representing the Treasurer recall that on 23 October I asked a question 'concerning the awarding to  Mr Patrick  White of a Nobel prize by the Royal Swedish Academy of Letters? Does he also recall that I then suggested that  Mr White's  Nobel Prize money should be exempt from taxation and that he said he would pass my suggestion on to the Treasurer? Did the Minister pass on to the Treasurer the suggestion I made regarding  Mr White's  prizemoney being exempt from taxation and, if he did, can he now give the Senate the Treasurer's answer? 
I rise to indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party will vote for the Bills now before the Senate and to say that I, like  Senator Jessop,  today received a deputation from the AlburyWodonga Growth Centre Land Owners Association. I endorse all  Senator Jessop  said in relation to his urging of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  to consider the proposals put forward by the deputation. As the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  pointed out in his second reading speech on one of the Bills, on present growth rates there will be an additional 7 million people in Australia within the next 30 years. It is imperative that the growth of cities like Sydney and Melbourne be halted. Between 1954 and 1966 the population of Australia increased by 28.5 per cent, but the population of the metropolitan areas increased by 38.6 per cent and of other urban centres by 29.9 per cent. The 1970 census revealed that the 6 State capitals, plus Canberra and Darwin enjoyed 76 per cent of the increase of the Australian population between 1966 and 1 970 and that 53 per cent of it accrued to the 3 largest metropolitan areas. 
In 1965  Dr Neutze,  in his book entitled 'Economic Policy and the Size of Cities', studied the costs of traffic congestion in cities of different sizes.  His  conclusions were that each new resident would cause an increase in traffic congestion for existing residents costing about $65 per annum in Sydney, $4 per annum in Wollongong and something like 20c per annum in Wagga. The report of the Committee of Commonwealth and State Officials on Decentralisation in July 1972 estimated the amount of government expenditure on infrastructure that would be saved if between 1970 and 2000 half a million people were diverted from Sydney's growth and divided among five existing nonmetropolitan cities. The study covered water supply, sewerage, roads, bridges, public transport and flood control. The estimated saving was something like $120m. In Australia we are building about 140,000 houses and flats a year. More than half of these structures are required to deal with the population growth. One-tenth of the other half* located in a new centre would give at the end of 10 years a capacity to house a population of something like 250,000. 
It is the view of my Party that the best and most effective way of bringing about decentralisation of population would be to change the method of taxation collection so as to create a climate that would achieve decentralisation. We would urge that it be done by reducing company and income tax substantially and by placing a tax on industrial land sites that would encourage decentralisation in country areas. Having said that, let me repeat what I said at the beginning of my remarks: My Party will support the Bills before the Senate. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General and I refer to the case of  Mr Leith  Ratten who was convicted in August 1970 of the murder of his wife and sentenced to death. I might add that the sentence was subsequently commuted to life imprisonment. Is the AttorneyGeneral aware of the circumstantial nature of the evidence which convicted  Mr Ratten?  Is he aware that 3 appeals were subsequently dismissed, one to the Victorian Full Court, one to the Privy Council, and one to a special sitting of the Victorian Full Court? Is he aware that there is still a widespread belief among some people in the innocence of  Mr Ratten?  Could the AttorneyGeneral have his Department look at  Mr Ratten  's case and, if there seems to be any reasonable doubt existing after an extensive examination, is there any way in which the AttorneyGeneral could facilitate an appeal to the High Court? The Attorney will appreciate that I am not familiar with all the legal problems involved and I would appreciate his guidance on such a non-party-political matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence upon notice: 
Has the Minister read the criticisms of his statements on the Omega navigation system contained in the article 'Omega- A Documented Analysis' by Nicholas Turner, published in the Australian Outlook, volume 26, number 3, December 1972; if so, what is his answer to the criticisms. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. I preface my question by saying that all honourable senators will be aware of the increasing incidence of drownings in Australia during the summer months and the holiday periods. Honourable senators will also be sadly aware that among the drownings are a lot of children of school age. I ask the Minister to ask the Minister for Education whether he will contact his opposite numbers in the various States and investigate whether the States will agree to make competence in swimming compulsory in all Australian schools. In the meantime will the Government, where it has power such as in the Australian Capital Territory and its other Territories, initiate moves to have learning to swim made compulsory in the schools' education syllabus? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the consideration of the Estate Duty (Termination) Bill 1973 be restored to the notice paper and resumed at the stage it had reached in the last session. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
. That, in view of the developing practice in the industrial trade union movement of using industrial trade union organisations to force political decisions upon governments by threats of strike action, or by strike action, it is becoming imperative that the Government immediately legislate to outlaw this type of industrial blackmail. 
That available constitutional means under the trade and commerce powers be called upon to effect this purpose. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I ask: What action has the Labor Government, which allegedly champions the cause of dissenters in Australia, taken to express its disapproval of the brutal action by the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to exile Alexander Solzhenitsyn and his family from Russia? Will the Prime Minister use the occasion of his coming visit to the Soviet Union to protest to the heads of the Soviet Government against such brutal and mindless oppression of a distinguished writer whose only crime was to publicise the denial of human rights in the Soviet Union? Will the Prime Minister consider extending to Solzhenitsyn and his family, on behalf of the Australian Government, an invitation to reside in Australia and continue his literary work in a free society? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour. Will the Minister agree that the recent industrial action by the Australian Bank Officials Association, which caused widespread disruption throughout the community, showed clearly how ineffective the arbitration system has become under the present Government? Did not  Mr Justice  Isaacs find that he had no power to order the parties to arbitration? Therefore, was he not compelled to preside helplessly over fruitless conciliation talks? Did not this situation cause several additional days of commercial disruption to the public, without any compensating advantage to either party? Will the Minister agree that the present Government is promoting industrial unrest by its continuing attempts to remove wholly all penal provisions from the Conciliation and Arbitration Act? How does the Minister reconcile his dramatic intervention in the banking dispute with his total inaction during the 9 weeks of last year's costly and futile communist directed strike at the Ford Motor Co. of Australia? 
Is the Minister representing the Postmaster-General aware that details of a supposedly confidential letter from the Postmaster-General to the Secretary of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union,  Mr George  Slater, were published in the Press recently? Is the Minister aware that in the letter the Postmaster-General is alleged to have said that there would be another increase in the cost of posting ordinary letters which is now 7c? Given the recent savage increase in postal charges imposed by this Government, does the Minister think it is fair for the Government even to contemplate a further increase in postal charges? 
I present the following petition from 4 1 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we urge the Parliament to legislate for the total abolition of all Commonwealth probate. 
That Estate Duty has become an oppressive, punitive and discriminatory tax which is carried by those people least able to alford it. 
That Estate Duties tax the poorer citizen rather than the richer citizens. 
That  Senator J.  T. Kane's Bill now before the Senate entitled Estate Duty (Termination) Bill should be supported by all Senators irrespective of their party membership. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that the decision of the British and United States Governments to develop further the naval installation at Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean was taken to balance the growing naval influence of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in that Ocean. 
Why did the Australian Government protest against this decision. 
Is the Australian protest symbolic of the Government's policy of switching sides to the Communist bloc in the new realignment ofworld power now taking place in Southern Asia. 
Does the Minister claim that Australia's new policy of neutralising' the Indian Ocean means opposing any attempt, by previously trusted Allies, to curtail the growth of Soviet military and naval power. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister during his recent South East Asian tour make critical comments about the Philippine Government's treatment of  Senator Aquino  and the Condition of martial law in that country; if so, were his comments about the purely internal affairs of a country he was visiting, a breach of diplomatic custom. 
Did the Prime Minister during his visit to the People's Republic of China ask  Chairman  Mao whether the former  President  and heir apparent, Lin Piao, had been given a just trial before being killed; if not, has the Australian Government adopted double standards in world affairs by not expressing concern for the victims of Communist power, while non-Communist regimes are expected to treat their political opponents according to all the rules of British Parliamentary tradition. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Postmaster-General aware that details of a purported confidential letter from him to the Secretary of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union,  Mr G.  Slater, were published in the Press recently. 
) Is the Postmaster-General also aware that in the letter he is alleged to have said that there would be an increase in the postage rate applying to an ordinary letter. 
Does the Government intend to increase postal charges in the forseeable future, having in mind the magnitude of recent increases. 
I  present the following petition from 755 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate to Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That we urge the Parliament to legislate for the total abolition of all Commonwealth probate. 
That Estate Duty has become an oppressive, punitive and discriminatory tax which is carried by those people least able to alford it. 
That Estate Duties tax the poorer citizen rather than the richer citizen. 
That  Senator J.  T. Kane's Bill now before the Senate entitled Estate Duty (Termination) Bill should be supported by all Senators irrespective of their party membership. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Will the Attorney-General inform the Senate on what date the Government advised  His Excellency,  the Governor-General, to communicate with the State Governors proposing that the next Senate election be held on 18 May, as announced in both Houses of Parliament on 2 1 March last? Secondly, on what date did  His Excellency  communicate with the State Governors? Thirdly, did the communication to the Governor of Queensland refer to the existence, or even to the possibility, of an extra vacancy? Fourthly, if no reference was made to an extra vacancy, was this because there was clearly no vacancy existing or was it an attempt to conceal information from the State Governor? Fifthly, if the Attorney-General then considered, as he now claims he did, that a vacancy had been caused by a sitting senator's self-disqualification, why did he, as the Commonwealth Crown law officer, not take whatever action was appropriate to have the  President  notify the Queensland State Governor that a vacancy had occurred? 
I present the following petition from 299 citizens of the Commonwealth. 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we urge the Parliament to legislate for the total abolition of all Commonwealth probate. 
That Estate Duty has become an oppressive, punitive and discriminatory tax which is carried by those people least able to afford it. 
That Estate Duties tax the poorer citizen rather than the richer citizen. 
That  Senator J.  T. Kane 's Bill now before the Senate entitled Estate Duty (Termination) Bill should be supported by all Senators irrespective of their party membership. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 470 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we urge the Parliament to legislate for the total abolition of all Commonwealth probate. 
That Estate Duty has become an oppressive, punitive and discriminatory tax which is carried by those people least able to afford it. 
That Estate Duties tax the poorer citizen rather than the richer citizen. 
That  Senator J.  T. Kane's Bill now before the Senate entitled Estate Duty (Termination) Bill should be supported by all Senators irrespective of their party membership. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
