-I felt very happy about coming into this debate until I was almost reduced to tears by the previous  speaker, Senator Cotton.  From now on he will be known as the pick and shovel senator. He dug holes around the lectern and the next  speaker  from the Opposition side will need to watch his step. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill, which I strongly support in all its facets, has been before Parliament on 3 previous occasions. It was debated in the House of Representatives for 6 hours 17 minutes and in the Senate for 11 hours 44 minutes. In other words we have spent a total time- excluding this debate- of 18 hours 1 minute debating this Bill on 3 different occasions; namely, 4 December 1973, 8 April 1974 and 10 July 1974. We have been forced into a Joint Sitting because of the stubbornness of the people on my left who decided that they did not lose the last election even if they did not win it. They are fighting a rearguard action because of the masters behind them. The money spent on this Joint Sitting would have provided 30 houses for Aboriginal families, 2 medium sized pre-schools, half the price of the new plane the Premier of Queensland wants to buy, half a mile of bitumen surface, one  Olympic  swimming pool or one high school library. If members of the Opposition want to interject I shall give them a Utile bit of their home history in a moment. It was Cicero who said: 'The good of the people is the chief law'. We have come to this Joint Sitting as a last resort in order to get our legislation through. 
Who forced these people on my left to put the taxpayers of this country to this expense?  Mr Acting Chairman,  I shall tell you. It is the companies who sit behind them and who direct their every thought and action. They are the people they defend. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  stood here today with crocodile tears coming from his eyes because he made that great bloomer during the election campaign when he virtually promised the oil companies: 'Return our Parties and we will increase the price of oil per barrel as it comes from the wellhead.' Of course, the motorist would pay. 
It is not untrue. That is completely true. It is the motorist who would pay for it. The workers of this country were to subscribe $1, as a minimum, for every gallon of petrol. I shall name these bankrupt companies. Exxon, which is known as Esso Australia Ltd in Australia, for the last year on the figures which are available to me made a profit of $2,440m. Texaco made a profit of $ 1,292m; Standard OU California $842m; Mobil $842m; and Standard OU (Indiana) $5 11m. These bankrupt oil companies to which the Country Party had committed itself to increase prices at the wellhead are the companies which are directing the people on the left hand side of this chamber now. In private industry profits are the main thing. Profit is the only good that members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party have ever heard of. This country has oil and natural gas which provides approximately SO per cent of our energy. It is not like the stink gas which comes from the Country Party. In addition to this we have natural oil which supplies some 70 per cent of our needs. At the current rate of consumption our natural gas resources will probably last for the next 30 years plus. It was the Fitzgerald report that exposed the hypocrisy of people on the Opposition benches. I will not go into that report because of the shortage of time; in any case it has been adequately covered by previous speakers from this side of the chamber. 
Why all this great fear of government participation? I Will tell people why there is a fear of government participation in industry even though such a system operates in countries Uke Canada, New Zealand, Japan, France and Italy. Those countries are not worried about government participation in natural gas and oil projects but members opposite fear it because they believe it will take profits away from their friends. I quote now one paragraph of a statement by the Anglican Bishop of Gippsland,  Dr Garnsey,  who recently said: 
All natural resources are the gift of God; private ownership of them is against natural and public interest. 
Gippsland 's oil and gas resources should be securely placed in the hands of the Australian people. 
He continued on similar lines. No doubt in the book of members opposite  Dr Garnsey  would be a communist. 'Communist' is a favourite word that members opposite try to bring back into the parliamentary vocabulary. In a previous speech in the Senate on this particular Bill I referred to the Petroleum Information Bureau. I have had the courtesy of a letter from the Bureau. I will not quote it all because of its length. The letter was in reference to a statement I made and which appears in the Hansard report of 23 July 1974 at page 357, if anyone cares to look it up. The Bureau wrote: 
We do not comment on government policy in relation to petroleum exploration and production, whichever political party is in power, though we may report events that follow from the implementation of government policy. 
I am pleased to see that at least one section of the industry has some interest in this matter. There are a number of other matters on which I should like to enlarge but time is limited. However I do want to refer to some of the rackets that go on with respect to the oU industry and the mining industry generally. Again, on this occasion, I quote Byron who said: 
For what were all these country patriots born? To hunt, and vote and raise the price of corn. 
I am not referring specifically to members of the Country Party but if the cap fits they can wear it. I refer briefly now to that very close friend of mine, the Premier of Queensland, known in some circles of the Country Party as 'The Flying Peanut' and in other circles, not religious circles, as 'Holy Joh'. He is used to taking matters to the High Court. He has said that if this Bill is carried at this Joint Sitting he will take it to the High Court, although he was unsuccessful in his previous application a few days ago. In 1962  Mr Justice  Taylor brought down a judgment. Because of the lengthy nature of that document I will quote only small sections of it. It concerned a mining exploration agreement in which  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  was involved. He -  undertook to purchase from taxpayer S 1 per cent of the issued shares in a company to be formed for £12,650 and to pay him 5 1 per cent of the deposit and first year's rental paid by him 
The judgment goes on to show how money was shifted from one bucket to another. 
The ACTING  CHAIRMAN (Senator the Hon. Justin O'Byrne)-  Order! Your point of order is being considered. I ask the honourable senator to continue with his remarks but to connect them to the subject matter of the BUI. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Chairman.  I refer now to other sections of this law report. It is not the private life of a man in public life when he is able to fiddle the mining shares, but I will make these references - 
Do not be so thin skinned, for goodness sake. 
The ACTING  CHAIRMAN (Senator the Hon. Justin O'Byrne)-  Senate standing order 418 states: 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament of any Member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament, or against any Statute, unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal, and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 

 Senator Keeffe may continue. 
I withdraw the word ' fiddle ' and say ' manipulated '. I want to say - 
The ACTING  CHAIRMAN-  I have given consideration to the honourable member's point of order. I ask  Senator Keeffe  to connect his remarks to the Bill and to avoid any reflections or imputations against any member of a State Parliament. 
In my most academic language, I shall rephrase the whole statement and read from the document compiled by  Mr Justice  Taylor. I hope that this satisfies my jackinthebox mate who is continually objecting. On page 29, the Australian Law Report of 1 963 states: 
It was, of course, urged that the appellant did not obtain the amount in question for the sale of an interest in the authority; he obtained it, so it is said, for the sale of 1 2,650 shares. But, as so clearly appears, this is part only of the story - 

 Mr Kevin Cairns  You tried this 2 elections ago. 
Of course, he got involved in this High Court case because he was trying to dodge taxation.  Mr Justice  Taylor said, when he found out that he was trying to dodge taxation - 
-This is my close personal friend, Holy Joh.  Mr Justice  Taylor said: 
In these circumstances, I am satisfied that the amount in question represented profit arising from the carrying on or carrying out of a profit-making undertaking or scheme within the meaning of s. 26 (a) of the Income Tax and Social Services Contribution Assessment Act and, as such, it formed part of his assessable income. That being so the appeal should be dismissed. 
This was signed by  Mr Justice  Taylor. I have been provoked into this and I am sorry about it. On previous occasions in the Senate I have asked for another mining company- the Nickelfields company- to be investigated. Two senators were involved.  Senator Wood  remains a member of the Senate. The other senator involved has retired. I asked for this company to be examined by the Rae Committee. It was never examined by the Rae Committee because on that Committee Opposition senators protect their friends too. 
Unless this Bill is carried in its entirety and unless it is put into operation, rackets will go on indefinitely in rnining in this country. This is the chance for the Australian people to own some of their own property. As Bishop Garnsey said, it was given to them by God and it is not to be dissipated at the hands of racketeers who seem to be able to engage in this industry indefinitely and without much control. 
The ACTING  CHAIRMAN (Senator the Hon. Justin O'Byrne)-  I call the honourable member for Kennedy. 
