As one who over the years has enjoyed listening to my friend,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, from Victoria, I just wonder what he said in the half-hour he took to make his speech. He gave a history of what Communism has done and said what he thinks it will do. He said that there was a rising of Communism in certain countries to our north. Why did he not say that Communism, as history shows, thrives only where oppression of the people is greatest, where there is poverty and all that goes with poverty? 
I am talking of Communism as a whole and J shall deal with that aspect later. 1 never run away. I shall deal with the honourable senator later, too. He is one of those who want everyone except himself to shed blood in Vietnam. He and his colleague, the lawyer from Tasmania - I do not mean the Minister - remind me of that famous poem written in 1916 about conscription, lt was entitled 'The Blood Vote'. So as to bring the poem up to date I have, with great respect to the writer of it, altered a word here and there to fit in with present day conditions as they affect the Senate. I hope with righteousness on my side I dedicate what I say to the two people in the Senate who are more war-thirsty than any other person I have met in nearly 30 years of political life in State and Commonwealth. The poem reads: 
Why is your face so white, senator 
Why do you choke for breath? 
Oh, I have dreamt in the night, my boy 
That I have doomed a man to death. 
Why do you hide your head, senator 
And hide it as though in dread? 
It beareth a dreadful brand, my son 
With the dead man's blood 'tis red. 
J hear his fiancee cry in the night 
I  hear his mother and sisters weep 
And always within my sight, Oh God, 
The dead boy's blood doth leap. 
They got rae to cross the floor, 
The grim death warrant of doom. 
And  I  smugly sentenced the young man to death 
In  that blood-red carpeted room. 
Oh my little son, Oh my little son, 
Pray God for your father's soul, 
That the scarlet stain may be white again 
In God's great Judgment Roll. 
I  have made a few alterations to fit the position as it is today in this chamber. I suppose that poem was one of the greatest propaganda poems used in the conscription of 1916 and 1917. It caused some storm then and in my opinion it fits very admirably indeed the two senators that  I  have named. 
It is quite easy for them to vote for conscription of 20-year-olds - some of them, unfortunately, to bc killed. Only the other night I read a report in the 'Herald' that the casualties up to date amongst Australian soldiers in Vietnam total 3 SO dead and 1,819 wounded. Is it not easy to send someone off to war? What for? The Government that honourable senators opposite support has not even declared war. Why has it not declared war? Surely one cannot say that this is other than war when such numbers of our young men are killed or wounded. Does the Government not declare war in order to protect the people who have gained most out of war over the years, whether it be this, that or any other war? We can go around living our lives without any extra taxes and without any burden at all in order that for some whim, some alleged request by - I suppose - one of the worst governments that the world has seen, as proved by what the Americans did- 
I  did not mention the Head of State at any time. I know that it hurts. I have been waiting for a while to have a shot at the honourable senator. I always give as good as I take. I have sat here nauseated hour after hour when he and his colleague, who are nothing but jingoists, have indicated that they are pleased to send someone else to war. They make certain that they themselves do not go. 
There would not be a conscript in this country if it were not for the likes of the two people whom I have mentioned. 
Whether I take more or less time than  I  want to take, the honourable senator is going to get it. I am getting sick of hearing what the people on this side stand for. We had first to fight accusations about Bolsheviks in 1920. I have never known of an election except those in 1943 and 1946 when the likes of the honourable senator have not put  a  smear on members who stood for the Australian Labor Party, and I have had enough of it. 
1 will put it on you now. 
Now, let me refer to the last election campaign. I listened to the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  when he, and no doubt others, thought in the last week before the election that the position was not so secure. Up to that time at least I had had some respect for a man who had served a lifetime in the Parliament of this nation. I was shocked that even a possibility of defeat could get him to descend to taking part in a smear campaign that candidates of this Party have suffered for a long time. One can look back over the years of politics. Possibly I have not much longer to serve in this Parliament but as long as I am here those who give it will get it in return. The Labor Party has not changed its policy on the Vietnam war. We said at the outset that we had uo right to be in it, and we still say that. 
 Let the honourable senator show us the agreement whereby we were compelled to send troops, whether they be regular troops or conscripts, into the Vietnam conflict. There is no agreement whatsoever. 
 I would not do what the honourable senator did. I would not say that everyone has to go except me. I would hide my head in shame if I were the honourable senator. 
 The honourable senator has been pretty good at that. He has been excellent at it. If 1 did what he said, I would be almost as bad as he is. Australia should never have become involved in the Vietnam war. I believe history will show that we came out of there with extremely few friends in the countries to our near north. 
My friend should listen and learn. Certain people want wars. Honourable senators opposite should ask themselves how the American economy would run today if it were not for wars. 
It is not a case of 'good God'. That is true. 
 Come on now. Look at the manufacturing industries in the United States of America that have to make their profits either through wars or through the dispersal of the armaments that they make to practically every nation in the world. 
I am not speaking about what happened in 1941. If the honourable senator recalls what happened in 1941, all the then Government did was to walk out. 
I was not speaking personally. 
 I was speaking of the Government of the day. In 1941 the Government could have run this country because it had a majority. I saw the Government run the country for 3 years with a majority of one. It had a bigger majority in 1941. The job of running the country in 1941 was done badly. The people then entrusted the job to people who would do it and who did it. 
If the honourable senator knows so much about the Brisbane line, he should tell us. I still want to know whether or not it was wise to consider having such a line. It was a matter of defence. No doubt strategists would know much more about this than I would. 
I am not accusing the Government of withdrawing. History will show that the Government was delighted to get out of Vietnam on the best possible conditions. Year after year the Government was told that it could not win the war. Yet it continued to send troops there. When we said that the Government should reduce the number of forces stationed there it did not agree. The Government said that it could not do that. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  in his latest statement, said that if there is a further withdrawal of United States troops he will consider withdrawing some of our troops. In the interests of the nation the Government should make up its mind as to what it wants. 
Situations change, it is true. I do not know whether the honourable senator was a member of the Senate - I think he was - when the Holt Government was in office. The phrase then was 'All the way with L.B.J.' That did not bring the Government much success. Do not think that I am unfriendly towards the United States. 
They might. Let people think what they like. This Government ought to have a foreign policy of its own. It ought to know where it is going. We have obligations under the ANZUS Treaty and under SEATO, however weak those ties are. 1 believe that any Australian government would honour its obligations, but those obligations do not take us into Vietnam just because other nations want to go there as the world is changing. We want to have some friends left in this part of the world. If I am any kind of judge - I do not say I am a good judge - once the United States gets out of Vietnam it will take a lot to get that country back into Asia again. I think that the history of the revolutions of the people in Asia shows that. We would be doing the United States a very good turn if, instead of blindly following what it did or what it said and instead of having no worthwhile foreign policy of our own, we helped the United 
States to get out of Vietnam. We would be doing the United States a service. 
The honourable senator has never become involved in order to be able to run. I suggest that, in the interests of this country, it would be wise to withdraw our troops. We are part of Asia. Great Britain is getting out of Asia to a very marked degree. 
The honourable senator should read and learn. If he did he would see that what happened here and in New Zealand from 1929 to 1931 was happening in Great Britain when  Mr Wilson  took over. The honourable senator should compare the balance of payments today with the balance of payments when the Labour Party came into office. Of course a government has to do things for the good of the country. Scullin attempted to do this. The people who were in Parliament in those days applauded what he did. We all know what happened at the 1931 election. The Government is a fair weather sailor. We should look at its performances when the going is bad. In the interests of this country, in the interests of our own people and in the interests of the part of the world in which we are situated, the sooner we get out of Vietnam the better. 
When the Government first announced its intention to intervene we were told that it bad received a communication from the South Vietnamese Government asking us to come to their assistance. But the communication was never produced. The present Prime Minister spoke in the Senate during the debate. The late  Senator Sir William  Spooner and the late  Senator Sir Shane  Paltridge also took part in the debate, but the document was never produced. The next thing to happen was that we heard the Government asking: 'Is it not better to fight there than fight here?' The Government did not take any notice of the military experts who said it would take at least 2 million men to make a successful invasion of this country. The Government also ignored the Oppositon when it pointed out that naval experts had found during the last war that it took 4i tons of shipping to shift a man. We asked: 'Which Asian nation has 8 million or 9 million tons of shipping with which to invade Australia?' The question was not answered. Therefore, it should not be said that North Vietnam is the villain because if there is to be an invasion of Australia it will be from mainland China or some other part of Asia. As I have asked in the Senate on previous occasions, is it expected that they will come in sampans? lt is not as easy as that. God forbid that there should ever be an invasion of Australia, but honourable senators opposite should not go round this country saying that the honourable senators who sit on this side of the Senate will not stand up to their defence responsibilities. 
The Government created the situation. 
I understood, when listening to the honourable senator's speech, that he had had an opportunity to go to Vietnam recently and he had taken it. 
I understood that the Senate had given the honourable senator permission to incorporate in Hansard a lot of material he brought back with him. Am I correct in saying that he sought leave to incorporate certain material in Hansard? 
 I have read that material. I would like to know who the honourable senator thinks is responsible. Has Australia played any part? If we are doing work which can be described as humane who would say that we are other than pleased we are doing it? But the position is that if there had not been outside intervention such a situation may not have occurred. It is not the first struggle to occur in the portion of the world which was known as Indo-China. Fighting has occurred in that area over many years. 
I think the honourable senator should be a little fairer and admit that there has been war in IndoChina over many long years. 
Were they not all united against the French? I am not the best historian in the world, but if the honourable senator's interjection is an indication of his knowledge I am a little better than he is. I believe that Australia will be much better served the moment the war in Vietnam is ended. At one time we were told that we would win the war in a couple of years but winning a war brings with it all the atrocities which everybody in the Senate deplores. To be quite candid, I think we have reached the stage where even the most ardent supporters of our position in Vietnam admit that there is very little, if any, hope of success. I think the United States of America with all its power - if I am correct it is somewhere in the vicinity of half a million men - has learned that it cannot subdue this country. Instead of wasting the lives of precious young people- 
If it is a matter of subduing a country why do we not let the people of the country be united, as they were against the French? 
I cannot get down to exact figures, but I believe that Australia is doing itself irreparable harm. The conflict has to end sooner or later and then we will have to pick up the threads. The threads will not be as easy to cement in friendship as has been the case in the past. I deplore the thought of sending troops to Malaysia or Singapore unless we have a treaty with those countries to the effect that if we are in trouble they will give whatever help they can. Australia is a country which is large in area but small in population. Some people seem to think that we can disperse the limited resources we have to help anyone in our region who asks for assistance. 1 believe that help should be given on at least a quid pro quo basis. 1 would vote tomorrow for a policy which provided that if we help people those people will have to come and help us when we need it. I cannot see anything wrong with that. A very high-ranking Army officer once told me that if he were given bands and control of the mass media he could get as many volunteers to join the forces as were wanted. 
It is a matter of opinion. 
I have never been classed as a pacifist. All I want to say is that we should look at the matter in its true perspective and take away the hatred we seem to engender for the sake of being on one side of the chamber or the other. Every time honourable senators opposite take part in an election campaign their first thought is to say that those people who carry the banner of the Australian Labor Party are Communists, are mixed up with the Communists or are fellow travellers. We on this side of the chamber are getting a bit sick of hearing such remarks and we hit back. I do not suppose honourable senators opposite like it as much when we hit back as when we sit back and take it. 
Debate interrupted. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. Has the Government as yet finalised consideration and arrived at a decision as to whether Maltese migrants - who are in fact British subjects - are entitled to all social service benefits under the laws of the Commonwealth from the date of their arrival in this country? May I remind the Minister that representations on this matter were made to the Government as far back as January 1968? 
1 direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. I would like to preface it with a few words. 1 read with interest the following passage in the statement made by the Minister on 5th March on the agreement between Australia and Yugoslavia on the residence and employment of Yugoslav citizens in this country: 
However, in accordance with section 35a of the National Service Act 1951-68. mcn who have rendered continuous full-time service in the permanent forces of Australia or in the naval, military or air force of a country other than Australia are granted recognition of such service . . . 
I ask: Does that passage mean that a Yugoslav migrant to this country, aged 19 years and 9 months, who has served a year or 15 months in the Yugoslav Army has that amount of service credited to him when he becomes 20 years of age and is compelled under the law of this country to register for military service? 
I desire to ask a  question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. My question follows the one asked of him by  Senator Greenwood  from Victoria. I ask the Minister whether he has had brought to his notice an article in the Canberra Times' of 6th March 1970 which refers to a speech purported to be made by Averell Harriman, the former chief United States delegate to the Paris peace talks, in which he said that the  President  of South Vietnam,  President  Thieu, had pulled the rug out from negotiations several times. As peace in Vietnam is very important to Australia because our troops are there, I wonder whether the Government has taken the trouble to see if the facts are as stated by this eminent United States peace negotiator. 
In resuming my remarks on the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply I want to deal with three other matters. I propose firstly to try to ascertain the rule governing the issue of a passport. I have always been under the impression that if a person were a national of any country he was entitled to hold a passport. I also believed that whenever a national of a country committed any act, such as treason or treachery, which was detrimental to his country, then that country had the right to cancel that person's passport. In the past few weeks newspapers in Australia have been full of reports of the pros and cons of the case of one  Mr Wilfred  Burchett. I want to be quite candid about this. I have never met the man and I do not know if I ever will meet him. I believe that before the Government can say to a national of this country 'You cannot have a passport', it has a duty to say why a passport will not be issued and it should back up what it says, if necessary, by charging the individual in a court of law. I was rather intrigued by certain answers that were given in another place on this question. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on 4th March asked the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes): 
Is it thought that  Mr Burchett  has broken any law of the Commonwealth? Alternatively, now that he is in Australia, is any investigation being undertaken to ascertain whether he has broken any law of the Commonwealth 
The Attorney-General replied: 
I do not propose to give any opinion as to whether  Mr Burchett  has broken any law of the Commonwealth. What 1 will say, however, is that I, as the principal law officer of the Crown, do not propose, as at present advised, to bring any charges against him in respect of-- 
At this point an interjection was made. 
The Attorney-General continued: 
I do not propose to bring any charges. It is proper that I should say that in answer to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition. 
When pressed further on this question during the debate on the motion for the adjournment on 5th March the AttorneyGeneral, as reported in Hansard, said: 
First of all I would deal with the last point raised by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell).  He asked me, in effect, about Burchett's activities in Vietnam and whether anything could be done about them. The answer is that under the law as it presently stands - that is, the Crimes Act which now has an extraterritorial operation - a prosecution for the offence of treachery or the offence of treason cannot be mounted unless the war is a proclaimed war and there is a proclaimed enemy. 
I rise not to discuss  Mr Burchett's  political views or writings but only to say that what happens to  Mr Burchett  today may happen to a  Mr Smith  or a  Mr Brown  tomorrow. Why does not the Government proclaim a state of war if that is the only reason why it cannot prosecute the person in question. Why does the Government not say that we are at war? Everyone except the Government believes that we are in a state of war. 
I have read exactly  -  I have not missed a word here or there - what is reported in Hansard. I think it is wrong that we take this action because we do not like a person's political views. The Government is making this country a laughing stock. 1 certainly do not agree with the political views of  Mr Burchett  if they are as some sections of the Press have stated. However, when  Mr Burchett  was asked the direct question: Are you a member of the Communist Party?' he said 'No'. I certainly would not be a party to aiding anyone who commits treason against this country. But if the Government cannot charge a man, if it is not prepared to take him into the courts of this country - whether he be Burchett. Kennelly or anyone else - it has a fundamental responsibility to give him a passport. 
Surely there are sufficient numbers in both Houses of this Parliament to pass any special Act that may be needed to prove what 1 believe, according to the reported statements of members of this Government in the Press, is in the mind of the Government. These reports indicate that the Governent believes that this man acted contrary to the way in which an Australian ought to act in view of our troubles in Vietnam. This applies also to the interviews that he had with prisoners of war in Korea. Until the Government does that, I cannot see why it should be allowed to say to one of its own people - whether it wants to own him or not, the fact is that he was born in Australia - that, he should not be granted a passport. 
This man was born here. If the Government cannot prove what in its opinion, according to what we read in the Press, this man has done, .1 see no reason why he should not have the same rights as anybody else has. I do not know of any political party in this country, other than the parties which form the Government of the day, which thinks other than what I have said. The Government has not substantiated its case. Rather than make Australia look foolish in the eyes of the outside world, I hope that this Government at least will reconsider the attitude that it has taken. If the Government wishes to alter the law so that it may charge this person, that is its right. I believe, without equivocation, that a Bill for this purpose would obtain a speedy passage in both Houses. 
No. The Government says that, at the moment, the Act does not embody a provision covering the position. If the Government has sufficient proof that this person has done what it is commonly said by the Government he has done, I say that the Government has ample numbers in both Houses to pass a special Act so that, at least, the name of Australia can be cleared. I feel quite certain that if it could be proved by the Government to any member on either side of the Senate that this person was a treacherous person or that he had committed treason against this country, a speedy passage would be given to any special Bill to cover the position. 
All I say is this: There is only one way in which to find out whether or not a person Ls guilty or not guilty of an offence. This is to charge that person in the courts of our country. If the Government has not the power to do that now in the present case, it should alter the law to give it the power to do so. Therefore, 1 say that the Government should not cast these innuendoes, and go even further than that and deny to this man the right to which 1 believe every person in this country is entitled. 1 desire to say a few words now about primary industry in this country. I am brought to mention this subject following the remarks from the ex-M mister for Customs and Excise,  Senator Scott,  to which I listened. I do not mention  Senator Scott's  former portfolio in any offensive way.  Senator Scott  spoke on this subject yesterday. He paid particular attention to the Australian wool industry. I was pleased to hear him. say that, on all occasions when a referendum had been held by wool growers on the subject of orderly marketing, etcetra, he had supported the case for orderly marketing. Not only do we face trouble with regard to wool but also we are in trouble with our wheat industry. We have always been in trouble with our dairy industry. I think that we are paying approximately $27m per year in subsidies to the industry. Dairy farmers claim that this is a subsidy for cheap butter. Consumers of course say that it is a straight out subsidy for dairy farmers. 
The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  knows that a lot of trouble exists in his own State in regard to peas and beans. Let us be quite candid about this matter. A treaty called the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement exists between this country and New Zealand. This is a trade treaty. I should like to see trade treaties entered into between Australia and a number of other countries if this were possible. But where it is found that an Australian industry suffers because of a treaty that has been entered into - in this case, the treaty between Australia and New Zealand - steps ought to be taken to rectify the position. I do not think that anyone can argue this point if he has listened to questions asked here by  Senator Lillico.  No-one, I suppose, is more closely connected with the pea industry than is the honourable senator. I am not closely connected with the industry. One cannot be otherwise than impressed by those who grow peas in  Senator Lillico's  State and also with those who grow peas in my own State, in Gippsland and possibly in the Goulburn Valley. Those people are suffering because of the importation of peas from New Zealand where manufacturers seem to have a special method of processing them. 
What is the trouble with the whole of the farming industry today? We should remember that we will be in much more trouble, I should say, in the near future because it looks certain that if Britain can enter the European Common Market she will do so. When we were discussing this question some years ago, I said that if 1 was a member of the House of Commons I would go flat out in support of Britain joining the Common Market. With the potential markets throughout Europe for her secondary industries - and Britain has these potential markets - how can we blame her if she does enter the Common Market? Of course, such action would have an adverse effect on our farming community. We would be faced then with extra trouble concerning butter, dried fruits, lamb and wheat. 
What is the cause of this trouble? Honourable senators on the other side were prone to say: 'Get rid of controls. Lift the peg off the price of land. We do not wish to have any more controls. We wish to have an open go.' The inflationary spiral that has followed has caused the price of land to jump to its present level. I was very friendly personally with the late  Senator Laught  who was a farmer. On many occasions, we travelled together from Canberra to Melbourne by aircraft. I asked him one day: 'If I wanted to put my son on the land, how much would I need to have in order to give him a reasonable chance of success?' After throwing thousands of pounds around here and there between ourselves - by tongue, that is: noone ever took it literally- 
If I have, I have earned it. Unlike the honourable senator, I have saved it.  Senator Laught  told me that it would cost £30,000. We were talking about wheat. He said also- 
I believe my friend is helping me. He knows more about this matter than 1 do. He is a practical farmer. I will ask him whether he can tell me how much would be needed now. What impressed me was that  Senator Laught  said that reasonably good seasons would be required for the first 3 years of the undertaking. We find that, as a rule, farmers buy in the dearest markets and sell in the cheapest markets. They sell in the main at world prices. That being the case, they could not be in other than grave trouble. I am not speaking as a man who was born in the country but as one who spent some time living in the country. I would like to see a joint select committee set up representing both sides of the Parliament. Let us get down to seeing whether we can find a solution. If a solution is not found, millions of dollars will have to be found in the near future. Let us see whether the collective wisdom of a select committee can at least show us where we are going. Let us see whether there is some hope, even with the economic structure that exists today. It is of no use anyone's saying to me or to a farmer: 'Millions of people are starving in India. What about the wheat?' Of course farmers will not mind if their wheat goes to the starving millions of India, so long as they are paid for it. 
And who has any objection to it? We are likely to find ourselves in trouble with meat exports. The position of our exports of prime meat is governed in the main by the United States. The farmers of Wyoming or the meat producers of the United States may say: 'Oh no, you had better put a stopper on imports of Australian meat' We would then sell less and less meat there. 
Yesterday  Senator Fitzgerald  referred to the position of Maltese migrants in this country. I was intrigued by what he said. He said that Maltese coming to this country are placed in the same position as aliens. When all is said and done, Maltese are British subjects. I do not wish to enter into a discussion with my friend  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack on why they are not Australians. I do not think that matters very much. I have made a few inquiries and have been told that Maltese migrants to Australia must live here for 10 years before they are entitled to the age pension and for 5 years before they are entitled to the invalid or widow pension. I was intrigued to learn today from the Department of Social Services that Maltese migrants who are unemployed may receive unemployment relief, irrespective of the time they have been in this country. I assume that that would apply also to the sickness benefit. 
After a study of the figures I am appalled at the falling off in the flow of Maltese migrants to this country. A prominent member of the Maltese community in Australia has told me that the decline is due to two reasons. The first is the prosperity in Malta. I can understand that. The second is the provision of our National Service Act compelling registration for national service by any male person in this country, irrespective of who he is, in his twentieth year. If I had to fight it seems to me that I would prefer to be fighting alongside a fellow who was at least one of my own. I would like him to be a naturalised subject. Anyway, each young man must effect registration for national service in his twentieth year. The figures on Maltese migrants are illuminating. In 1965 there were 4,403; 1966 2,039; 1967 1,639; 1968 1,293; and in the first 11 months of 1969 780. 
They are the numbers of Maltese citizens who entered Australia as settlers in those years. 
Those are the numbers who have come here. We are bringing in Yugoslavs. I do not mind whom we bring in as migrants, so long as Australia is secure. That is the only thing that concerns me. 1 have received a letter which raises some interesting points. A migrant from the United Kingdom or New Zealand is entitled in Australia immediately on arrival to social service benefits. There is no qualifying period at all. Why should there be a qualifying period for Maltese migrants? lt may be claimed that if the older migrants are given immediately the old age or invalid pension, once they get it they will return home. But it is remarkable that since 1957 the number of Maltese migrants of both sexes aged over 55 years who have returned to Malta is 958. 
I think the Government is obliged to look at this problem. The writer of this letter points out that while Maltese migrants must wait 1.0 years for entitlement to the age pension and 5 years for entitlement to the invalid or widow pension, after they have been here only 6 months they are compelled by law to register their names on the electoral roll. Therefore they establish the same rights in the government of this country as any honourable senator. I have no doubt that as British citizens they would be able to stand for election to the Senate. 
Yes. 
I hope that the honourable senator does not mean it that way. I am sure he does not want to insult all the Maltese people in this country. 
Through you,  Mr Deputy President,  I would like to ask  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack a question. Let us say that a person who was born in London comes to Australia, lives here for 6 months and places his name on the electoral roll. The act of placing his name on the electoral roll entitles him to nominate for election to the Senate, subject to the nomination being signed by ten or more people. It is so long since I signed a nomination form that I have forgotten the number of people who must sign it. I think the Government should give a decision on this matter. In addressing a question yesterday to the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch),  I pointed out that this matter was raised as long ago as January 1968. All I say in conclusion is that I do not believe that cost should be a factor. From 1957 to the present time only 958 people over 55 years of age have returned to Malta from Australia. Therefore, the cost of this proposal would not be great. One person wrote to me saying. 
Many of those experiencing hardship under the present system are ex-servicemen from the Second World War. which makes one wonder as to whether Malta fought on the right side and if in the affirmative as to whether it was worthwhile. 
This doubt comes naturally to Maltese migrants  in  Australia, as not only do we rub shoulder to shoulder with our former enemies but worse still we are meted out exactly the same treatment. 
We all know the wonderful sacrifices that were made by the people of Malta. The newspapers were full of reports of the air raids that were made. I suggest that this proposal is a good business deal for Australia. In 1968-69 we exported $3,175,000 worth of goods to Malta and imported $179,000 worth of goods from Malta. For the benefit of my friends in the Country Party, I point out that $3,005,000 of the total of $3,175,000 represented exports of rural products. I believe that this proposal should be implemented on humanitarian grounds as well as because at some time or other we or our parents were British subjects. We can also look at it from a trade point of view. Let us hope that the Government will make a decision on this matter so that the people of Malta can be at one with us. 
-I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Has he seen a report in the 'Financial Review' of today's date that Victoria proposes to supply country towns with gas fuel by using liquid petroleum gas, if the gas can be purchased at a reasonable price? Is it a fact that LPG from Bass Strait is being sold to Japan at less than $20 per ton and that the refineries are selling LPG in Victoria at $34 per ton? Will the Minister state the reason or, if he is not able to state it at the present time, will he ascertain why consumers in Victoria cannot purchase LPG from Bass Strait at least at the same price or at a better price than that at which it is being sold to Japanese interests? 

 - Mr President, 1 ask you a question. In reading the notice paper I am intrigued to see that two questions do not appear on it - one that I asked the Minister for Housing as Minister representing the Minister for Immigration three or four days ago, and another one that I asked the Leader of the Government on Thursday last, I think it was, in regard to the cost of liquefied petroleum gas in Victoria. I cannot see either of those questions on the notice paper, although they were more or less put on notice. Has the procedure been altered? As I understand the position, when a Minister asks that a question be put on the notice paper or says that he or she will obtain information on it that means that the question will be placed on the notice paper. If that is not the position, as the weeks go on one forgets that questions have been asked. 
by leaveAlthough  I  do not doubt what has been said by the Leader of the Government,  I  think that when a question is not answered but a Minister says, as the Leader of the Government said, that he will find out about it, honourable  senators may assume that the question is still alive so far as the notice paper is concerned. If we cannot assume that questions which are not answered are placed on the notice paper, in future I shall ask that they be placed upon notice. As to the question which I addressed to the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  as Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, I know that in that instance I handed to the  Clerk  a written question. However, I do not want to make a song and dance over this matter. The course to be followed when questions are not answered should be clear cut without this grey area in between. I do not like in betweens. 
Can the Minister for Civil Aviation inform the Senate of the intention of his Department in regard to the use of the present Essendon aerodrome when the Tullamarine aerodrome is fully operational for both international and internal airlines? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the Government proposes to request the banks not to increase the interest on bank loans for borne buyers, which will be in line with the action taken affecting the interest paid on loans to rural producers? 
Can the Leader of  the Government in the Senate give honourable senators any idea when answers will be given to questions that have been placed on the notice paper? Some questions have been on the notice paper since 1st March and even allowing for the answers to questions on notice that are to be provided tonight, advice of which has been circulated, about 103 questions on notice remain to be answered. Is it only wasting time to ask for information in this way, or does the Minister intend at least to remember that he has been away from Parliament for a fortnight, including the Easter holidays? In those circumstances one would have expected more answers to questions on notice than are to be given tonight. I ask the Minister what he intends to do. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What is the intended use for Essendon Aerodrome when Tullamarine Aerodrome is fully operational for use by both international and internal airlines. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Is it a fact, as reported in the 'Financial Review' of 12th March 1970, that the Government of Victoria proposes to supply country towns with gas fuel by using liquid petroleum gas (L.P.G.), if the gas can be purchased at a reasonable price. 
Is L.P.G. from Bass Strait being sold to Japan at less than $20 per ton and are the refineries selling L.P.G. in Victoria at $34 per ton; if so, what is the reason and why cannot consumers in Victoria purchase L.P.G. from Bass Strait at the same price or a better price than that at which it is being sold to Japanese interests. 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Is any examination being made by the Treasurer to provide for home buyers to enjoy concessional rates of interest on their home loans similar to those reported to be provided for people in rural industries? If not, will the Treasurer give the matter immediate consideration in view of the extra burden being placed on home buyers, both old and young, by the increased interest rate which has meant extra payments of up to S40 or S50 a year. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What amount of interest was debited against the revenue of the Postal Department for the year 1968-69. 
On what amount of capital was such interest charged and what was the percentage of interest charges. 
What amount of capital so charged with interest came from (a) Revenue of the Department, and (b) Loan Fund. 
From what year has interest been charged on money derived from revenue from the Postal Department which has been used for capital works. 
What, in yearly detail, are the amounts of (a) revenue from the Department, and (b) loan money used for capital works and the amounts of interest charged each year together with the percentage of interest charged on the money so used in the respective categories. 
Total interest payments for 1968-69 were $94,872,585 of which $88,748,574 was charged to the operating expenses of the Post Office in the Profit and Loss Statements. The remainder was charged to asset accounts, being interest on funds applied to major works in progress. 
The amount of capital which gave rise to the interest payments was $2,004,831,130 as at 30th June, 1969. The average rate of interest charged on capital provided to 30th June 1968, was 5.077%. Interest on the capital of $204,498,719 provided during 1968-69 was 5.25% up to 6th November 1968, and 5.4% for the remainder of the year. 
The Accounts of the Post Office were reconstructed with effect from the 1st July 1959. The liability of the Post Office to the Treasury for past advances at that time was set by the Government at$680m. It would not be possible to say precisely what amounts provided from the Loan Fund were included in this $680m because in establishing the liability the total advances made to the Post Office up to 30th June 1959, were adjusted for certain factors and the $680m was thus a net figure. As a guide however, up to the 1941-42 financial year, some $80m had been advanced to the Post Office from Loan Funds. Since that year, all advances have been made out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
Interest is not payable on capital funds derived from the internal resources of the Post Office, i.e., profits, depreciation and long service leave provisions. 
Records prior to 1962-63 are not readily available, but since that year, the following funds derived from the internal resources of the Department have been used for capital works: 

<graphic href="943232197004215_9_0.jpg"></graphic>

Since the Accounts of the Post Office were reconstructed in 1959-60, the following funds have been provided by Treasury and interest payments at the rates shown have been made to Treasury on such funds: 

<graphic href="943232197004215_9_1.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
With reference to the statement made by the Minister on5th March 1970, concerning the Agreement between Australia and Yugoslavia on the residence and employment of Yugoslav citizens in Australia, would a Yugoslav migrant in this country, aged 19 years and 9 months, and who has served a year or15 months in the Yugoslav Army, have that amount of service credited to him when he becomes 20 years of age and is compelled under the law of this country to register for national service. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Government proposes to request banks not to increase the interest on bank loans for home buyers, as was done in respect of interest paid on loans to rural producers. 
What has been suggested tonight has been the intention for quite a number of years; but unfortunately we do not seem to be getting any better as we are getting older. I am concerned about one aspect. In this chamber we have 5 Ministers. I would like to know from the Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson)  whether any of them have Bills concerning their own departments to be submitted. It would be surprising if some of the 5 Ministers did not have such Bills to be submitted. What is wrong with the administration if they have not? Honourable senators opposite know as well as I do that year after year we have a flush of Bills from another place. That is understandable because we have 26 Ministers of State in the Parliament - 5 of them in this chamber and the other 21 in the other. So naturally more Bills originate there than here. 
But it amazes me that this matter comes up each year. I know that the work has to be done. I do not like being in this place after 9 o'clock at night. I admit that. I have reasons for having that attitude. If I have to stay here, I do; but if I do not have to stay here I obtain a pair. It is no good coming in here and threatening us with possible Friday sittings later on. 
If the Minister wants mc to be kinder, as he is as a rule and for which we are all grateful, perhaps I should say that he implied that we might have Friday sittings later on. But there will be no 'might' about it. He knows as well as I do that we will be meeting on Fridays. Possibly worse things than that could happen. If the 5 Ministers in this chamber cannot submit Bills and give sufficient time for those on this side of the chamber to really go to town on them, it shows a lack of good administration and a lack of concern for those who are in this building for very long hours. Some people have the idea that we are in this building only from 2.30 p.m. until 10.30 or 11 p.m. But as a rule every  Senator is  here from about 9 a.m. right through until the Senate adjourns. This becomes a burden. 
At this stage I have no comment to make on the matters about which my leader has spoken. Possibly there will be a time and place to speak about them later. I am concerned only with the motion before us. I regret that the Government wants a decision on it at this moment. I would hope that the Leader of the Government could give us a little time in which to give this matter some thought, lt will not affect us at all this week if we leave the hours as they are. Today is Wednesday. We will be meeting at 9.55 a.m. tomorrow. The proceedings will not be broadcast tomorrow. The only thing we will gain- 
That is right. Otherwise tomorrow will not be affected because the Senate has already decided to meet at 9.55 a.m. In view of what has been said about meeting 3, 4 or 5 days a week and having certain weeks off, I ask the Leader of the Government to consider adjourning the debate on this matter until possibly Tuesday of next week. 

 Senator ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) -  Mr President,  I ask for leave to make a statement. I gather that  Senator Byrne  wants to speak. I do not want to prevent him or other senators from speaking. I want to clear the air a little. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Buil)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is&gt; granted. 
If, as  Senator Murphy  has indicated to me across the table, it is understood that after we have had an opportunity for discussion I will not have to wait a day but will be given leave to introduce a motion in order to achieve some finality on this matter, I am prepared to stand it over, to look at the proposition put forward by  Senator Murphy  and to put it to members of the Government parlies. I understand that he is suggesting a Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. Friday, Monday, Tuesday. Wednesday and Thursday sitting arrangement for the next 2 weeks, that we then have a week off, and that we then come buck for another 2 weeks for which he suggests much the same arrangement. 
-! wish to say a few words on the passing of exSenator Donald Grant. The main reason why 1 do so is that Donald Grant inspired me, as a young boy of 14 or 15, by his speeches on the Yarra bank in Melbourne. I was a bit older than  Senator McManus,  but no doubt he often heard Donald Grant at that forum also. I thought he was a remarkable  speaker.  I suppose he was one of the best mob orators I have heard in many years. In his way, he did a lot for the people of this country. It is respectable now to he a member of a political party that opposes the way of life in most western countries, but when I think of the history of Donald Grant - I knew him as a member of the 1WW of those days - I remember well when the then Prime Minister of this country was the cause of him being gaoled. That was one of the blackest pages in the history of this country. But when he grew more mature in thought Donald Grant became a respected member of this chamber. As  Senator Fitzgerald  said, prior to that he was a councillor of the city of Sydney for some years. 
I believe that he played a very important part in the history of this country. I hope that the circumstances in which he played that important part never occur again. People get carried away, particularly in wartime, as it was then. Charges were laid against him, as a result of which he was sentenced to imprisonment for about 15 years, if my memory serves me correctly. Again if my memory serves me correctly, he served about 4 years of that term. 
It was a long while. I rise here because I believe that present day people, if they happen to read Hansard - I regret that so few people do read it on all matters- 
At least you supported him in those days, just as I did. 
Yes, you did. 
I would not go into that. 
You did not know because you were stuck up in the State of Queensland. If you want that out, I do not mind. Being in the Labor Party for more than 50 years has given me a memory which might not be exact in all particulars but which is not bad. 
I do not intend to go any further in taking the time of the Senate. I realise that this is not a Bill dealing with the dairy industry, the debate on which can go on for years and years - or at least for hours and hours - although everyone is supporting it. All I want to say is that I join with other senators in remembering a man to whom I may have been opposed at certain times in his political life but who was prepared to stand up and be counted in support of the things that he thought were right. I hope that if he has relatives still living they will have the satisfaction of knowing that some members of the Senate remember Donald in the years of long ago. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration a question. In view of the decision of the Department of Immigration relating to  Mrs Taylor  will the same decision apply to some other people who 1 recollect came to this country under assumed names? I do not want to hurt anyone but 1 think that everyone in this chamber should know the person to whom 1 refer. 
 Mrs Biggs. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question which relates to his answer to  Senator O'Byrne.  On 5th June 1 placed on notice a question that is of vital importance to a committee of which I am a member, lt affects all members. To my mind the question could have been answered within an hour. The Minister was asked to supply information about the salaries of certain officers. The question concerned a committee which affects all of us. Since it affects all of us. 1 am concerned that justice should be done to all. Therefore I do not see why my question could not have been answered. The Minister for Supply said earlier that all questions would be answered. Will he pay particular attention to question No. 440 on the notice paper? I am expecting the committee to have a meeting very soon. 
While 1 am on my feel I am trying to pick up question No. 440 on the notice paper. 1 imagine that it is related to the committee of which  Senator Kennelly  and I are both members. 
Yes. It is a most important committee. 
J ask a further question of the Acting Minister for Immigration. Which parent is usually assumed to have the stronger feeling for a child, the mother or the father? 1 must say I regret the circumstances of this case and I think it is very unfortunate that the family has been split up. However, I ask this question: As the Government has been so solicitous for the children of  Mrs Biggs  - and I am grateful that it has been because 1 think the children ought to be kept with their mother - why differentiate and say that the children in the Taylor case ought to be kept with their father and that therefore the mother has to go through a life that neither the Minister nor I can envisage? 
Do I understand that if the second part of the amendment were carried it would mean that any orders of the Com.monwealth Industrial Court imposing fines in force under section 109 of the principal Act would cease to have effect? That part of the amendment stales: 
Upon the commencement of this Act, an order of the Commonwealth Industrial Court under section 109 of the Principal Act ceases to have effect. 
If my reading and understanding of the amendment is correct, it amazes me that the Government has gone a certain way in attempting to get some semblance of industrial peace. Quite candidly, in this age I do not expect that we will have as much peace as one would like. The cause of industrial unrest does not reside on any one side by any stretch of the imagination. It is brought about in the main by the economic circumstances under which we live. 1 refer to galloping inflation and rising prices. We have reached the stage today where if a married man who has a wife and 2 children receives an increase in his wages, whether it be by arbitration, direct action or over award payments, he is no better off a fortnight after receiving the increase because rising prices, over which we have no control, have swallowed up whatever increase he gets. That is one of the things that most affect the average person. 
We have to look at this matter in a sane way. The average person has nothing to sell but his labour, and by his labour he has to live. But unfortunately in recent years he has found that it takes a very long time to get justice from the arbitration court. After awards have been varied for only a short time, whatever he has gained has been swallowed up by rising prices. The Bill also proposes to reduce the amount of fines for breaching an award. The Government has come a certain way towards meeting the unions in this matter. 
No, it has not. If I am correct it does not propose to impose the $1,000 fine that has been imposed by the Court in the past. 1 am amazed that the Government in its effort to obtain industrial peace should still want to collect the fines that were imposed under the old section 109. It would be foolish for me to say that it will not get them, but it will have a bit of a job getting them. Still, the law is the law. If the Government wants this Bill to be given a go common sense dictates that we should wipe the slate and see what happens. 1 have very little knowledge of industrial matters because, unlike  Senator Brown,  I have never been connected with the trade union movement although I have been very close to it in another sphere. I believe the Government is heading for disaster. Why is it doing that? If the unions have been fined so many thousands of dollars under section 109 and have not paid the fines lo date we are only fooling ourselves to think they will pay them in the future. The moment the Government goes to collect the fines and the union does not pay, the Government has to put someone in gaol, whether it be Clarrie O'Shea or Carmichael, a Com or a non-Com. 
Even if they did ) do not think  Senator Gair  would want them on the rock heap. Let us be practical. In the interests of this country we should aim to keep the wheels of industry moving so that the mass of the people, the men we want to be connected with in life, get a fair go. 1 atn amazed that the Government, by demanding that certain fines imposed in the past have to be paid, expects to achieve that by this Bill which I think is a waste of the paper it is printed on. I do not want to entice people to break the law. 1 do not want to go to gaol. 1 am frightened when I pass it. 1 do not want to see anyone put himself in that position. But the fact is that people will do that. This is not 1900. This is not the day when the piece of rope was tied under the knees of the trousers. Today we are concerned not only with those who earn their living by the sweat of their brow. 
What is the Government going to do about the pilots and the engineers? What is it going to do with the other black coated workers who find that with all their pleadings and by going to arbitration they are not receiving what they believe is justice? What is the Government going to do with them? It cannot put them all in gaoL lt would be foolish to commence doing so. The Government has at least gone some part of the way by means of this Bill. lt has met the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the employers. Why does it not make a clean sweep? I hope that the Government wilL accept our submissions. It would be in the interests of industry and the people if it did. 1 hate to prophesy what will happen if it does not accept the submissions. The blame will be the Government's, not ours. 
I desire to associate myself with the remarks that have been made by the various speakers. It is true that I differed very violently with some of the political thoughts of  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes; but he was always a great friend of mine. We were close in the administration of sport. We were together in the Victorian Parliament for 12 or 13 years; and, of course, we were together in this Parliament, although not in the same House, from 1953. 
I found him to be a very humane man, as has been said. I remember that in Melbourne I had a driver who had been a prisoner of war in the same camp as  Sir Wilfrid.  He spoke in very glowing terms of how  Sir Wilfrid  at all times went out of his way to do what he could for others in those very bad and barbarous days. In regard to  Sir Wilfrid's  activities in sport, he was an Olympian and, whilst we may not have seen eye to eye on which is the greatest sporting park in Victoria, he did a terrific job for amateur sport. Only a few days before he died I made arrangements with him to have lunch with me and to view an area just outside Melbourne in which 1 take some little interest. I regret thai his untimely passing prevented that from happening. 
I believe that, as everyone has said, Australia has lost one of its greatest sons. It is true that we differed, and differed very violently, on some questions of the day; but no-one who knew Billy Kent Hughes as I and many others here knew him could help admiring him. The tribute that was paid at his funeral service portrayed to the people who were present the great esteem in which he was held on account of the work he had done. I desire to add these few words to the others that have been said and also to attempt to console his widow and daughters. I trust that God will remember him. 
asked the minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What remuneration and allowances, if any, are attachedto the following positions: 
Chief Justice of the High Court; 
Administrator, Northern Territory; 
Commissioner, and Chairman, Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission; 
Consul-General in San Francisco; 
Australian High Commissioner, London: 
Ambassador to Japan; 
Member, Australian Broadcasting Commission; 
Member. Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia); 
Judge, Commonwealth Industrial Court; 
Ambassadorto Argentina; and 
Australian High Commissioner, Malta. 

<graphic href="045232197008191_44_0.jpg"></graphic>

Has the Minister for Civil Aviation received a report from a working committee of Commonwealth officers and airline representatives on the cost of providing aviation facilities in Australia, together with an addendum from the airlines? If he has received that report, will he make it public in order that senators will have time to consider it before the introduction of legislation which is to be submitted to increase air navigation charges? If the Minister does not intend to release the report, will he be good enough to give the Senate his reasons for such action? 
 I desire to ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science a question. May I say at the outset that I have spoken to the Minister about the matter I propose to raise and he suggested that I ask him a question. I ask: Will the Minister have a correction made in a statement he presented to the Senate on Wednesday, 19th August 1970, on behalf of his colleague the Minister for Education and Science. Under the subheading 'Scholarships' the statement reads: 
Since the introduction of the Commonwealth scholarships scheme in 1951. . . . 
That portion of the statement is contrary to fact, as Commonwealth scholarships were first made available in 1943 during the life of the government led by the late John Curtin, when the Minister responsible for education was the  Hon.  J. J. Dedman. The correction is necessary in order that interested people will not quote that portion of the statement as being correct. 
-I do not intend to detain the Senate for very long. However, I think I should say that the motion is delightfully vague and I am not keen on vague motions or decisions. I like to know where we stand. If the motion simply stated that the Senate agrees in principle that the sittings should be on the basis of 2 weeks of sitting followed by 1 week's adjournment, I would know where we stood. But the motion also contains these words: 'with the actual sitting days to be decided upon by the Senate, as the occasion arises.' 
He will accede to your request, within reason, so long as it is covered by the forms of the Senate. If the position is as stated by  Senator Withers  I see nothing wrong with it. I do not think any honourable senator wants to dodge any work, even the young senators. I say this with the greatest respect: If the work is to be done here, we will do it. I recognise how difficult things become at the end of a session. I am not sticking up for the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  any more than I would stick up for anyone else in that position in the future. He will find it tremendously hard to spread the business more evenly, because there are only 5 Ministers in the Senate and 21 Ministers in the other place. If the motion is to be understood as  Senator Withers  explained it, and I believe it is, I see nothing wrong with it. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) [4.8]  -  I would like now formally to amend my motion so that its meaning will be in accordance with  Senator Kennelly's  understanding. I reassure him that my understanding of the position is as  Senator Withers  has described it. I ask for leave to amend my motion. I understand that  Senator Murphy  has abandoned his proposed amendment and therefore we have only one motion before us. 
I  move: 
Leave out ' , as the occasion arises'. 
The simple fact is that in any event the Senate has to fix the hours of sitting, and that is done through the sessional orders. 
It  is as simple as that. If no other honourable senator wishes to speak, I will close the debate and we will put the motion to the vote. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is it a fact that freight rates on wool exported to Great Britain and to Europe rose by 4 per cent yesterday? If so, what reason does the Government have for not invoking the shipping provisions of the Trade Practices Act to prevent such increase? As this increase will cost the wool growers an extra $4m for the export season 1970-71 and as it will, as  Mr Nicholas,  Chief Executive Officer of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, stated, be passed on to the wool growers, what action did the Government take to counter this freight rise seeing that the Government has a vested interest in the shipping conference through the Australian National Line? Is the Australian National Line free to fix its own freight rates when it carries Australian exports, particularly wool, butter, wheat and other primary products? 
Has the Minister for Civil Aviation received a further request from the internal airlines for an increase in air fares, having regard to the fact that an increase was granted to both Ansett Airlines of Australia and TransAustralia Airlines within the past 4 or 5 weeks? If he has received such a request will he make a statement in the Senate after he has decided that the increase will be allowed? I ask that question because I believe that the Senate is entitled to a statement so that if honourable senators desire to do so they can at least put their point of view. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, by saying that I am appalled when I think of the position in which the Government is placing Australia by adopting its present attitude to the application for a visa by a certain person. I ask him: Does he think that the Government is enhancing Australia's prestige by stopping one person from coming here, irrespective of whether this person wants to speak at a meeting which is being held to protest against the declared policy of the Government and which has the support, one may say from the votes cast in the last general election, of practically half the population of Australia. 
What concerns me more than anything else in this debate is that the good name of Australia throughout the world has been hurt. 
That is cheap coming from the Minister now that he occupies the front bench. He caused enough trouble as a back bencher so the Government promoted him to the front bench. Irrespective of whether one believes in what the party concerned wants to say, I think that our main thought should be: How will this decision affect us as a nation in the councils of the world? We are in the situation where, rightly or wrongly, Australia has been adversely criticised in connection with what we have done in New Guinea. Anyone who has read the debates of the United Nations or committees of the United Nations is aware of this criticism. We might not agree with it because we know what is best from our point of view. But what will be the situation if publicity about the Gregory case goes throughout the world, as it will and no doubt already has, and it is thought that because a person has different political views from the Government of the day on one subject he must be refused a visa. 
What right has the Minister to say that he is an anarchist? 
The only thing that worries me is that Government supporters are prepared to belittle the name of Australia in the councils abroad for the sake of creating an atmosphere for the forthcoming election. 
What rot? If one can believe what is reported in the Press, this person -will be addressing representatives of a number of nations in Africa. He would need to do no more than tell them of the decision of this Government.  1  have no proof that the decision taken in this case was based on colour and  1  do not go so far as to say that colour was the basis for the decision; I believe that he was refused a visa because of his views on a war - an undeclared war so far as this country is concerned - that we should not be connected wilh, according to the views of 54 per cent of the people of Australia as expressed in a gallup poll. The attitude of honourable senators opposite reminds me of what was said by  Sir Samuel  Johnson: The last refuge of a scoundrel is patriotism. As political scoundrels all that Government supporters are seeking to do is to shelter behind the situation in Vietnam. Surely the  President  of the United States has shown by his action in withdrawing a number of troops from Vietnam - no doubt more will be withdrawn as time goes on - that it was a mistake to become involved in this struggle. 
Honourable senators opposite are aware of that and the world is aware of it. If the Government were honest about our involve ment in the undeclared war in Vietnam, if it believed in what it was doing and believed that Australia would be affected in any way by the struggle, it would have declared war, in which case everyone would have played some part in the struggle, by contributing their money, or their life as has happened in a number of instances. But as  Senator Cant  has said, all the Government has done has been to conscript a number of young men and send them to Vietnam because it could not attract volunteers by putting up a case to show why Australia should be involved. I believe that the Government by adopting the attitude that it has in this case is displaying one of the worst advertisements that this country has had in the councils of the world. In replying to  Senator Murphy  the Minister ridiculed the idea that  Mr Gregory  stated that the reason for his application for a visa was that he wanted to go sight seeing. I am not one who, as a rule, pays much attention to what the newspapers say because T know from many long years experience what side they take when it counts. But it is interesting to read in the leader of the Melbourne 'Age' what is said about sight seeing as far as  Mr Gregory  is concerned. The leader reads:  lt is not so tunny: there are extraordinary sights to see. A Commonwealth Minister and his Government, for example, rising in the Parliament to tell the world thai Australian democracy would be threatened by a short visit from one of America's vocal, but non-violent, rebels. 
With the training that  Senator Rae  has been fortunate enough to have in law. he or any lawyer who gets up here and boldly states that a person has 5 convictions- 
Then the honourable senator should state what those convictions are. He knows more about them than I because he has had the book thai  Mr Gregory  wrote in his hands. None of those convictions were for other than fighting for something he believed to bc right. I remember a senator who sat in this chamber and who was gaoled in circumstances similar to those in which our young friend would be gaoled today. It was  Senator Donald  Grant. Did we think any less of the late senator because, someone, who at that time thought the same politically as honourable senators on the Government side do today, caused him to be sentenced - if I remember correctly - to IS years gaol? I understand he served a very short time in gaol. A committee was appointed and after 3 years it was shown that justice had been abused. It is all very well for  Senator Wright  who has washed himself of all the. sins he had, as far as his Party is concerned, when he sat on the other aisle to support the. Government in this matter. Now he graces the seats of the mighty. One marvels at what a ministerial office can do to at least one member of the Administration who is now humbled to whatever duty he has to do and who adheres to any principle which he can fit into that nimble mind so that he will be able to sit over there. 
As I say, I think what the Government is doing is utterly wrong. I am not one who believes in breaking the law of this nation. In my opinion there is one place for the law to be amended and that is here.  Senator Cant  rightly asked: 'How can you expect the people of this nation to respect a law that you will not administer?' People are - and rightly so in this instance - opposed to this law. I point out to my young friend on the Government side  Senator Webster,  who is so keen on sending everyone else to Vietnam, whether they be 19 or 20, that I would feel I would want to have a look at the place myself, and not merely as a visitor. He has told us he did see it once but not in the same capacity as those to whom he referred. Is it wrong for a person to come to this country to espouse a view on a question which is common to this country and his own? Would honourable senators opposite stop  Senator Fulbright  from coming here? 
It is true I have not been up there. 
I thought the honourable senator was alluding to me. I want to know why the Government should single out one person and discredit the name of this nation. That is what the Government has done. It has gained nothing by its action. There will be many more adherents to the Moratorium Campaign whenever it is going to be held because of the stupid action in denying this person admittance here. I said, and I reiterate, that surely we have passed the stage where because one person may have different opinions from those who rule today he is not entitled to put his case. In his own country he is not stopped from addressing whoever he wants to. This is the first time I have ever known this Government to do anything other than willy nilly follow the United States. But for some reason, perhaps because there seems to be an election in the offing and because the Government has nothing else in its own mind that will secure its position it wants to wave a flag and persuade the people that if this person comes here law and order will be destroyed. Surely to goodness anyone with common sense would say that if any person is admitted to this country and he breaks the law while he is here the Government would certainly have the right to put him out - and put him out quickly. No-one would object to that. But we should not keep him out. Whether the subject be South East Asia or Africa - where at least we want to have friends - we should not stop people from coming here unless they are prepared to say what the Government of the day wants them to say. If that policy is adopted I would hope to see one person come to this country and that is a young lady from Ireland. I would love to see her here because I always love a fighter. If she took the same attitude to the Vietnam struggle as  Mr Gregory,  the Government would not let her in either. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
1 hope the Senate will reject the motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in his capacity as a private senator. If carried, in essence what will the motion do? It will curtail no; only members on this side of the Senate 

 Questions on Notice 51 3 but all members of the Senate. What will it add? It will add more Dorothy Dix type questions. That is all it will add. Instead of asking a question and having it put on notice, honourable senators will go to a Minister's room and say to his secretary: T want to ask your chief this question today or tomorrow'. The purpose of the motion will be defeated. We must always guard against any curtailment of the rights of senators, whoever they may be at a given time. We are going through unusual times. Some think that we are in a permissive society. Some think that they can do what they like. Therefore we must protect one safeguard that the people have, that is, that at all times elected senators should have the right - and obtain more rights if possible - for free and open discussion. If that is done I think the Senate as we understand it, will have a greater chance of survival. 
What does  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson think the motion will achieve if it is carried? The only thing would be a saving of time. How much time will be saved? In my view, it would be far better if the Senate met half an hour or 20 minutes earlier to let us enjoy the right we have had over the years. Not long ago there was an agreement that if we wanted an oral reply to a question on notice we would go to the  Clerk  and inform him that we wanted to ask the question, and the Minister would then read the reply.  Senator Murphy  appears to be having quite an audible conversation. I do not know whether he wants to make my speech for me or whether he wants me to make it. I do not mind if he wants to make it for me. I would prefer to make it myself, irrespective of how badly some may think I am doing the job. Time and time again when an answer has contained a mass of figures, the Minister who has been replying has said: 'I have 2 pages of figures. I ask for leave for them to be incorporated in Hansard'. Those figures would not be read. If  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson replies, I would be interested to know what time he proposes to save if the motion is carried. If it is carried here it is more or less certain that the Standing Orders Committee, when it meets, will put the rubber stamp of approval on what the Senate decides. I would not blame the Committee for that. I say that with respect to you,  Mr President.  [3 September 1970] 

 - Mr President, surely no-one could take umbrage from the words I have used. I said that, if the Senate carried the motion, in effect it would mean that when the Standing Orders Committee met and discussed the matter it would agree. If it did not, when it submitted its findings, the Senate would vote in the same way as it did the first time. 1 am sorry if I was not clear in my enunciation of the point, but I assure you,  Mr President,  that I had no intention of reflecting on you. 
As one who will not be here much longer, I submit that we should never give away something that we have already. People are always anxious to take away something from the open Parliament in order to get the work through much more quickly. We have plenty of time. I suggest that if a Minister requests an extension of sitting times because of the volume of work to be done, the majority of senators will not mind sitting an extra hour or extra hours or an extra day to get the work done. Therefore I cannot see that the motion will be of any help to honourable senators. I think its main purpose will be to stop honourable senators from asking questions. We do get answers to questions, but honourable senators should always remember that we do not get an answer next day. Sometimes we do not get an answer at all to a question on notice. Those of us who have been here for some length of time know quite well that at the end of a sessional period a number of questions still on the notice paper are wiped off. I know that this will be a free vote. From what  Senator Webster  said this afternoon, that may help him. I hope that at least on this occasion he and I will be on the same side when the vote is taken. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation a question. I beg his pardon for not seeing him prior to asking it, but I was busy. If I remember correctly, on 25th August I asked him whether he had received a copy of a report from the committee comprising representatives of the Treasury, the Department of Civil Aviation and, I understand, the airlines, including Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd, about costs and about the airlines' contribution to air navigation charges. As the Air Navigation Charges Bill is about to be considered, I wondered whether the Minister has the report. If he has, will he table it prior to the debate concluding? 
Following the question which I directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation relative to the report of the committee which is now investigating air navigation charges, I now ask: In view of the fact that the Minister states the report is not completed will he place on the table of the Senate the portion of the report which is finished and of which he has a copy? Will the Minister consider delaying the introduction of the Bill concerning air navigation charges until the report is received? In order not to interfere with the financial arrangements which the Government has made in regard to air navigation charges will the Minister insert in the Bill a clause which provides that such air navigation charges will be collected as from the date proposed in the original Bill? 
My question, which  I  direct to the Minister for Civil Aviation, follows on the answer he gave to  Senator Rae.  I find it hard to understand, if Qantas Airways Ltd is in the position described by the Minister in respect of its fleet of jet planes, how the Government came to allow a second American airline to operate its service into this country? 
I address a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. He has stated in this chamber that there have been 2 increases in aviation fares within the last month or 6 weeks. According to what one reads, the first increase of 6 per cent was granted on the basis of rises in wages and the second increase of 3 per cent on the basis of increased charges for aviation fuel or kerosene and the increase of 10 per cent in aviation charges at aerodromes. Will the Minister request his Department to give the Senate more particulars of those increases? I do not think it is good enough for the people of Australia to be told that they have to pay an extra 6 per cent for fares because costs have risen on account of wages. Let us have a look at the wages, at the increased fares and the increase in the number of passengers. I think the Minister should give the country the full story which prompted him to agree to the increases as requested by the internal airlines. 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General a question. Is it the usual practice for a person who is admitted to practise to cast a slur on the ability of another member of the profession, as was done by interjection by  Senator Rae  on  Mr Connor,  Q.C., who I understand is the barrister assisting the commission appointed by the South Australian Government; or was the question prompted by jealousy or the incompetence of one as against the competence of the other? 
My question, which I address to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows on the question asked by  Senator O'Byrne.  I ask: In view of the divergence of opinion as to whether the photographs are authentic- 
Wait a minute. Earlier, my friend at the back who interjects asked a question about Albert Park, about which he knows nothing. Perhaps he knows no more about this matter. I will ask my question in my own way and in my own time, and the only person who will say that I am incorrect is the  President.  My question follows on the question asked by  Senator O'Byrne  and the answer he received. As there is a very great divergence of opinion as to the authenticity of the photographs, will the Leader of the Government in the Senate set all our minds at rest by asking the head of the News and Information Bureau to breast the Bar of the House so that he can satisfy members of this Parliament on whether the photograph published is an authentic one? 
I was amazed by the statements made by  Senator Wright  I admit that he has had a change of heart. However, I will forget that for the moment. I will be kind to him i in advancing my argument.  Senator Wright  said that  Mr Whitlam  used words which were subversive. 
I do not want to do that. Does the honourable senator want to make a speech now? If so I will sit down and speak after the honourable senator. I would not mind. I am a very accommodating person at times. 
No, I am not. The honourable senator should not talk about me being frightened. Having regard to his views on Vietnam and his age the honourable senator should be the last person in the world to say that somebody is frightened. I do noi want to say anything further about that subject. I do not want to be unkind to the honourable senator. I may have been a wee bit hard at times, but I want to be kind on this occasion.  Senator Webster  is trying to interject. He is in the same age group as  Senator Greenwood. Senator Wright,  replying to a question asked by  Senator Rae,  said that  Mr Whitlam  had used subversive words.  Senator Wright  said that  Mr Whitlam's  words were treacherous. Let us examine standing order 418. I shall read it slowly and precisely. It states: 
No honourable senator shall use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any member of such House . . . 
Surely no honourable senator can say that the words used by  Senator Wright  are not offensive. It is amazing to me to think that anybody, irrespective of whether he is high or low in the law, could say that such words could not be considered as being offensive. I believe that they are offensive. 
It does not matter whether they are true. Standing order 418 does not say anything about the words used being true or false. If my friend opposite is ever called upon to defend me, which I hope he will not be because I do not want to get into any trouble- 
I think I am. I am more concerned about the people who follow the same profession as the honour able senator than I am about the man who sits on the bench because after the members of the honourable senator's profession have finished with me as far as expenses are concerned I will not have any money left to pay the fine which is imposed. I shall advance my argument a little further. In Australian Senate Practice',  Mr J.  R. Odgers states: 
The Commons rule is that reflections must not be cast in debate upon the conduct of members of either House, unless the discussion is based upon a substantive motion drawn in proper terms. 
I say with respect that to use the words subversive' and 'treacherous', tacked on to what  Senator Withers  said - and I do not want to be unfair, God forbid, and misquote him, but I forget his words - is offensive. If I said that  Senator Wright  used subversive words or words that one could consider to be subversive, I believe that you,  Mr President,  would be quite in order in pulling me up, because if I used those words I would be contravening standing order 418. Standing order 418 also states:   . . all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
How can anyone argue that the words used by the Minister for Works are not a personal reflection? I like the Minister and his present attitude, but I think of the past. I will say no more. I am in a very good mood today. I will forget the past. How can anyone argue that the words used by  Senator Wright  do not conflict with what standing order 418 states? I admit that I am not gifted with degrees or anything like that, but a person with only an ordinary education - whether it be in school or out in the word- 
As there were no kindergartens in my time I will forget that. I do not think there is any shadow of doubt- 
This is not a court of law.  Senator Greenwood  does not have to baffle JPs and so on. The standing order says nothing about whether the words used are truthful. It says nothing about what is imputed being true or otherwise. The only way in which the honourable senator can make his position secure and for the matter to be debatable, I suggest, is to get the Standing Orders Committee to alter standing order 418. At the moment all I am considering are the words as they stand. I say, with great respect and in a very kindly way, that the words used by  Senator Wright  were, in my mind, contrary to what we are governed by so far as standing order 418 is concerned. 
I ask Hie Leader of the Government: In view of the fact that the Premier of Victoria has raised the question of the legality of the payroll tax by his argument that one crown cannot tax another crown, what is the position of a semi or half-crown? I allude to semigovernmental authorities. Would the Minister's advice be to follow the action of  Sir Henry  Bolte? 
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate study the Standing Orders to see whether it would be possible for the important statement which was made by the Minister for Air earlier this afternoon in reply to a question by  Senator McManus  to be debated by the Senate? Will the Leader of the Government provide an opportunity for the Senate to discuss this important statement because I, like my colleague from Victoria,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, hate to be classified as a second class citizen in this country? 

 Senator 
 Sir KENNETH ANDERSONMy excursions into the Standing Orders on a number of occasions in the past have not done me much good. Therefore, I approach an examination of the Standing 
Orders with some diffidence. I agree with the honourable senator that the Minister for Air has, in reply to a question, given some information on a matter which is of particular importance to the Senate. I am sure that there must be some means within the framework of the Standing Orders whereby this matter can be brought on for further discussion. It would not be for me to bring it on in this way, but I can see no reason why an honourable senator could not raise this matter on, for instance, the motion for the adjournment of the Senate or the first reading of a money Bill if he wanted to. However, 1 am not inciting honourable senators to talk about this very comprehensive statement. As I have indicated, I approach the Standing Orders in a very reserved manner. However, the Standing Orders provide quite a lot of ways whereby honourable senators can bring up matters of importance if they wish to do so. 
by leave - 1 raise objection to a very important statement being made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Sir Kenneth Anderson)  without copies being made available to honourable senators. I do that because if I heard the honourable senator correctly some part of his statement dealt with a decision made by the Premier of the State which I have the honour to represent. My understanding is that if everything which was agreed upon between the Premiers and the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  when they met some time ago in regard to CommonwealthState finances is carried out some money will be given back to the States from a tax which has been levied on all transactions until today. I do not imply for one moment that the Leader of the Government read his statement in such a manner that one could not hear it but there was a little bit of cross fire. I have been guilty of this in the past and no doubt I will be guilty in future for the little time thatI will be here. As the Senate will not meet for a weekI wonder whether the statement could be roneoed and copies given to honourable senators because I believe it is vital to the finances of all States. I am concerned, of course, about my own important State. 
I take it that the motion that the petition be read leaves the matter open for debate. Having memories of the past in regard to my colleague,  Senator O'Byrne,I  want to know whether the names on the petition have been checked? Have they been written by one person or more than one? 
If honourable senators opposite want a donnybrook,Ido not mind. The fact is that the person who presented this petition is the self-same person who queried the names on a petition presented some months ago by  Senator O'Byrne.  I always say that if it is good for someone to query one of my colleagues- 
 My young friend is coming in again. All one has to do in this place is dangle the worm on the hook, and the young people rush in. All I am doing is making certain that the petition is in order. As I said, I have memories of the past. The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  has stated thatI am responsible for casting a slur. I am only asking the self-same question  Senator Rae  asked of a colleague of mine some months ago.  Senator Rae  imputed motives then. I would be the last to impute motives. All I am asking is: Have the names been verified? Have they been checked? Are they written in different handwriting? If they are in order,I say with the greatest of respect: Let us have the petition. 
After 30 years,  Senator Gair  would know as much as I know. He was not bad and I was a pupil. All I say is that if I am satisfied on that score I will be quite happy. 
So did  Senator O'Byrne's  petition.  His  concluded with a prayer. What more could you want? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI remind the honourable senator that he was not speaking at a time when the petition was being presented in accordance with the Standing Orders and that he was in the debating arena. 
I rise to order. 
Government senators - Oh! 
You are not going to get away with that.  Mr President,  do I take it that the Leader of the Government in the Senate implied that you did not conduct the Senate as you should have? He said thatI was out of order. I do not know what right he has to say that I am out of order.I say with the greatest of respect that you have all the right in the world to say that I am out of order or that I am in order. But I will not take a statement thatI am out Of order from the Leader of the Government in the Senate, however much I may like him personally. He has no right to say that I am out of order or that any other person is out of order. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Petition read. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: What redress has the purchaser of an airline ticket who, before purchasing the ticket, studies the airline's printed time table - in this case dated 17th September 1970 - which shows the time of the flight together with the type of aircraft to be used, and satisfies himself that he will be able to keep an appointment he has made provided the aircraft leaves at the scheduled time and is of the type shown on the printed time table, but subsequently finds that a different type of aircraft is to be used? 
The purchaser of a ticket is not usually informed of any change of aircraft when he produces his ticket for seat allocation as this is done when he is called to board the aircraft. Does this not smack of snide business practice? Will the Minister request Trans Australia Airlines to follow its printed timetable, or at least ask TAA to use a little business acumen and inform intending travellers of changes in the types of aircraft when passengers present their tickets for seat allocation so that appointments could be changed, possibly by telephone? Does the Minister consider that the monopoly given to TAA and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd for interstate air travel permits both airlines to give less consideration to passengers than they would if a third airline were permitted to have access to interstate routes? 

 - Mr Deputy President, is it competent for an honourable senator who has shares in an airline, whether it be a domestic or international airline, to vote on this motion unless he declares his holding? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - I do not have any information as to whether any honourable senator has any interests in an airline. 
Would it be possible to get this information as I would hate to see any honourable senator do anything wrong unwittingly? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
Question so resolved in the negative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second lime, and committed pro forma; progress reported. . 
I have listened with some interest to  Senator. McManus.  I have read this amendment. What does the wording actually convey? lt uses the words: 'Bui the Senate is of the opinion. . . .' That sound nice. I have been 'of the opinion' on many matters at many times. I just want to know- 
I do noi want to be hard on  Senator Gair.  I do not mind interjections if they are in keeping, but if they are not in keeping they become a little distracting. What does this wording actually mean? Does it mean that the charges that are to be made are to be those for international aircraft; or are they to be those for domestic aircraft? I believe that that point alone needs some elucidation because the Schedule to the Bill shows that there are 2 charges. One would want to know exactly what rates are to be charged. 
The amendment refers to 'an identical rate for all aircraft'. Could we be told exactly what rate is to be charged? Whether the time that was asked for is long or not is a matter of degree. The fact is that the wording of the amendment requires some elucidation. Even  Senator McManus,  when he was on his feet, did not say which rate should be charged. All he said was, as the amendment says - of course he supports the amendment because it was moved by a member of his Party - that there should be an identical rate. 
I point out to the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party that there are 2 rates. Which is it to be? 
I point out to  Senator Gair,  with great respect, that at the moment there are 2 rates. One is for international aircraft that use our facilities, and the other is for infernal aircraft that use those facilities. I say to members of the DLP: Let us know whether the 'identical rate* referred to in the amendment means the higher rate or the lower rate. 
r  am not saying that they would not know. All I am asking them lo do is to tell us which one it is. 
I do not know. I do not think anyone would know from the wording of the amendment as submitted. 
When the time comes 1 will do what the honourable senator will do. I will vote the way my Party decides. 
I will do no more tonight than  Senator Gair  did for 25 years. All I want to know is why it suddenly became so wrong to do that. As far as  Senator Withers  is concerned- 
1 will not be careful. I have no need to be. 
What have I to be careful of? All I am saying is that honourable senators opposite will do exactly as I will do. What their Party decides in the Party room, they will do. 
Yes, you will. 
I do not think I have ever done that. 
On things that did not matter. 
 I like them. In the past 1 have had the great pleasure of having them, often wilh  Senator Gair's  help. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! There are too many interjections. 
All I want to say- 
 Mr Deputy President,  I take strong exception to the remark made by the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party and I ask that it bc withdrawn. 
The word racketeer'. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! There are loo many interjections from both sides of the chamber. 
All I am asking is whether it is possible, before a vole is taken on this amendment, to have a definition of some of the wording in it. I am concerned about the words 'identical rates'. As everyone knows, there are 2 rates - one for international aircraft and the other for domestic aircraft. 
We will have to vote on this amendment before we reach the Committee stage. Whilst it may be true, as  Senator McManus  states, that he and his colleagues will be able to tell us at a later stage what the meaning of the words is, that will be after we have voted. Let them tell us before we have to vote. 
All I want to know is: What principle are we to establish. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order!  Senator Kennelly,  will you direct your remarks to the Chair instead of to the interjectors? 
-I do not mind. I like to be helped. 
Almost as much as you need. I do not think the Senate has been informed in any way by  Senator McManus's  interjection that we will be told exactly what the meaning of the amendment is after we have voted on it. To me that does not seem to be a practical suggestion. If 1 cannot get the information I seek before I vote on the proposed amendment, I will vote against it. Let us have the information before we must vote so that: senators can consider whether they will vote for the amendment. 
I will. Politically the honourable senator's conscience must be a little wavery at times considering the history that one could go into. It could waver a little, could it not? 1 seem to be able quite easily to attract a lot of help. I do not mind it. 
I need it, and I am human enough to admit it. We need not keep on talking unless we can get some word from the senators of the Party who are responsible for the proposal. Unless advice is forthcoming from them before the vote is taken, I will vote against the proposed amendment. 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  give us any .idea of what time the Senate will finish tomorrow? I am not objecting to meeting tomorrow, but I would like to know what time we will conclude. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Am I correct in my belief that the Australian National Line became an international shipper for the purpose of controlling freight rates, particularly those applicable to our primary products for trans-shipment overseas? If my understanding is correct, I ask: What gains in respect of freight rates may our primary producers expect to receive now that the Australian National Line has joined with the Conference Lines and therefore has to charge the same freights as those shipping lines? Has Australia gained any benefit from the entry of the Australian National Line into international shipping now that it has become part and parcel of the world's main shipping line and will have to follow the pattern of freight rises adopted by that line? 
 My question, which follows on that asked by  Senator O'Byrne,  is directed to the Minister for Air. 1 understand that the Government is leasing 24 Phantom jets from the United States Air Force at a cost of $34m for a period of 2 years. How many of the 24 aircraft has Australia received? In view of the unfortunate accident that has occurred - I am pleased with the Minister's prompt action in asking for an immediate inquiry - will he at least prevent any more such planes from coming to this country until the officials of the Royal Australian Air Force are satisfied that the cause of this accident could not be of a nature that bears on the airworthiness of the aircraft still to arrive? 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Civil Aviation. Why does a different procedure apply at Melbourne Airport to other airports in Australia for the embarkation of passengers? 1 instance this example, with your permission,  Mr President,  for the information of the Minister: When a person arrives at Melbourne Airport with his luggage he has to go and get his seat allocation and then he has to carry his luggage another 30 yards. 
 1 am not arguing about who it is. If it is TAA I am more concerned about it because I am a shareholder. I know that I will not get any return on my investment, but I will have to pay if it goes bad. I ask the Minister whether he can look at this procedure because, I am informed, it does not operate in any other capital city in this nation. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation a question. I understand that Viscount aircraft were taken out of service by Trans-Australia Airlines in August last. Has any date been set down for when the Fokker Friendship will be taken out of service? Will he ask TAA not to keep printing in its timetable that a certain class of aircraft will be used on a certain flight when more often than not there is a change of aircraft? I know that the Minister, in an answer last week, said that people should read what is on the back of the ticket. If a person has a magnifying glass he may be able to read it. But the fact is that people book on aircraft after looking at the timetable and seeing the aircraft that is scheduled to be used on a certain flight. 
I  will not  take up the time of the Senate at any length. The words in this motion which interest me are 'unless otherwise ordered'. I have no quarrel with the proposed times if it is desired to get the business of the Senate finished by the end et this week to enable honourable senators to get out into the electorate. But I am concerned about what the words 'unless otherwise ordered' mean. Do they mean that the Government may introduce new Bills after 1 1 p.m.? If we have an assurance that no Government business will be introduced after 1 1 p.m., I will be quite happy with these hours. 
-I raise strong objection to the terms of this motion. Unless the business of the Parliament is to receive extremely scant attention, to my mind it will be impossible to finish this week. I suppose one of the most important Bills yet to be discussed in this chamber is the Australian Wool Commission Bill. We have heard much about the position of the rural producer, particularly the wool grower. I understand this measure has reached the second reading stage in the House of Representatives. That Bill, with all its ramifications, should get the consideration which is its due. I suppose all of us have shed political tears at times for those engaged in the wool industry in the hope of getting votes for our own Senate team at election time. If the Senate sits only for the times proposed, very scant attention will be given to this matter. 
I do not know at the moment how many Bills the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  hopes to have completed before the end of the week. It would be most interesting to hear the number. Apparently he does not intend to give us the information by way of interjection. I do not suppose it would help his case very much if he did. 
I am not worried about what the Whip knows. With all respect to the Whip, I think all of us as members of this Senate are entitled to have that information. I think it is making a joke of the whole situation if the Government expects us to sit here with very little hope of giving the legislation that comes before us the attention it deserves. 
The honourable senator is such a newcomer to this chamber he just would not know what anyone did. 
From what I have heard of the honourable senator, I think that he would give logic away at any time. Are we here to make a farce of this institution? When all is said and done, I do not think another 2 or 3 days of sitting next week would hurt any person. I do not think it would hurt those candidates who are standing for re-election. Because we are unable to draw any information from the Minister, we are entitled to ask him - leaving aside the Whip who he says has the information - how many Bills he hopes to get through between 5 or 6 minutes past 8 tonight and 11 p.m. on Friday. 
I appreciate the Minister's courtesy at all times, but I do not think that he is altogether showing courtesy now; he is simply avoiding answering my very pertinent question.  His  reason for not answering is that a statement that 20. 30 or 40 Bills will be put through in this chamber with very scant attention may appear in the Press of the nation. So far the Estimates have not been considered in this chamber. I know a lot of consideration has been given to them by the Estimates Committees, but each senator could not be a member of every committee because 3 or 4 of them met at the one time. Whether one believes that these committees were a good or a bad idea, the fact is that there may be some who desire information on estimates that were dealt with by a particular committee of which they were not members. 
I believe we should always strive to see that the people outside this place have tespect for the parliamentary institution. 1 think we all want that. The proposal before us is the best way to put into their minds the thought that even those who are elected have no respect for the institution because they want to spend as little time here as they possibly can. The average person arrives here at about 5 or 10 past 9 of a morning and if he is here until the Senate rises he usually leaves about 10 minutes past 11 at night. That is not wise. It is not good from a health point of view. At least the Minister ought to study the position and recognise that unless we give scant attention to the business we cannot finish this week. We should sit the normal times and come back Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday of next week. For that reason I oppose the resolution as submitted. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that freight rateson wool exported to Britain and Europe recently rose by 4 per cent; if so, what reason does the Government have for not invoking the shipping provisions of the Trade Practices Act to prevent such an increase? 
As this increase will cost woolgrowers an extra $4m for the export season 1970-71 and will, as  Mr W.  P. Nicholas, the Chief Executive Officer of the Australian Woolgrowers' and Graziers" Council states, be passed on to the consumer, what part did the Government take in negotiations leading to this freight rise, as the Government has a vested interest in the Shipping Conference, through the Australian National Line? 
Is the Australian National Line free to fix its own freight rates, when it carries Australian exports, particularly wool, butter, wheat and other primary products? 
It is not my intention to take up much time. 1 agree exactly with what  Senator Murphy  has said. I would be quite happy at this juncture if the Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  would assure the Senate that we will have an opportunity to discuss this paper at a later date. I recognise what has to be done. 
Yes. I am prepared to resume my seat immediately if the Leader of the Government will assure us that we will have an opportunity to discuss this statement prior to the adjournment of the Senate at the end of this ses sion. I hope that we will be given that assurance. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) - by leave - I should like to intercede, without closing the debate, to make just one point. It is very difficult for me to give an assurance in relation to a ministerial statement made on behalf of another Minister.  Senator Murphy  has made a valid point. I appreciate that he does not want to stifle anybody who wants to comment at this time, but as a matter of procedure I think that at some point we will have to take the adjournment of the debate. I shall be in a situation then where 1 will have to confer with the Minister on whose behalf the statement has been made to ascertain what the situation is. lt may be that because of the negotiations implicit in what the statement says it will not be felt appropriate to have a continuation of the debate for some time. That is a decision that we will have to reach ultimately. At this point I have put down a statement on behalf of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen).  It is not my statement. The statement is now a document of the Senate. If we had a short debate now and then had an adjournment of the debate f would be in a position to acquaint the Minister for Trade and Industry with the views of the Senate. Where we went from there would be a matter on which he would have give me some advice. 
I ask the Leader of the Government a question which follows on the question asked by  Senator Young.  Is not the stand taken by  Senator Young  and those who sit on the Government side of the chamber in regard to a 35-hour week similar to the stand taken by their predecessors in relation to the 48- hour week, the 44-hour week and the 40- hour week? 
The question the honourable senator asked concerns action taken in relation to the 48-hour week, the 44-hour week and the 40-hour week. In the end result we have been able to accommodate the. 40-hour week over a period of years, but its initial impact was disastrous to the New South Wales economy. It was introduced without any regard to phasing in or anything else. I do not intend to argue that the economy has not been adjusted over a period of time to meet the reduced hours, but that is vastly different to a proposal for the introduction of a 35-hour week without regard to the economy and without regard to the employment of the people. These factors have to be taken into account. Let us not make any bones about the fact that the Labor Party is committed to advocating the introduction of a 35-hour week. 
35-HOUR WORKING WEEK 
I desire to ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question which follows on the question asked by  Senator Bull.  Is it not a fact that the official figures of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics indicate that rural wages account for approximately 20 to 21 per cent of the total cost structure? To decrease from 40 to 35 the number of hours worked each week would therefore mean a one-eighth or 2.6 per cent increase in costs. Has the Minister not ascertained that this increase would mean an increase of 2.53c a bushel in the price of wheat? In view of this is the indication that the 35-hour week would wreck the rural sector of the economy a fact of life? 
With great respect to the honourable senator who asked the question I fee) bound to say that he has oversimplified ihe economics of the situation when he suggests that all problems are solved by working on a percentage of the wages of the rural sector of the economy. I am not aware of the basis of his figures so I do not challenge them but they have no regard to the flow-on which goes right through an economy. Simply to take one set of figures and work out a percentage from them and say that, ipso facto, they do not have an effect on the economy is a new form of economics with which 1 cannot compete at all. 
I would be grateful if the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport would tell me how many shipping companies form the Australian and New Zealand Eastern Shipping Conference referred to in the last question. I thank him for a full answer he obtained for me in relation to this matter. I know he would not expect me to agree with what it said, but it claimed that Australia, being a member of the Shipping Conference, was bound by the rates fixed by it. It would be interesting to know how many shipping lines comprise the Conference. If there are more than two I can understand why the Australian National Line is compelled at all times to increase its shipping rates. 
I am rather amazed that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  has moved this resolution at this time. Earlier this week he laid down certain times of sitting. When the honourable senator moved that we sit from 10 o'clock in the morning until 11 o'clock at night he never at any time intimated that he would come along the next day or the day after and move that certain rights be taken away from honourable senators as he has done now. He knows, as does everyone else, that it is impractical to get through the business of the Senate by Friday night. Whether we meet next week or whether we follow  Senator Gair's  suggestion and meet after the Senate election lies with the Government which has the right to submit to the Senate the times of meeting. I do not believe we should deny any honourable senator the right to discuss General Business. If anyone wants to have a discussion on the defence of this country surely it would be  Senator Byrne  in whose name a motion stands as the first business for tonight. I think we all would agree that that is a most important question. I think we would all agree that we will be able to nail certain things when that important debate is before the Senate. It is amazing to mc that anyone should agree to give away an important debate such as that. 
But I. revert to what I said: When the Leader of the Government fixed the hours of meeting of the Senate for this week which were agreed upon by the majority of honourable senators he should have at least suggested that Government Business would take precedence over General Business on Thursday night from 8 o'clock. I do not think this is the way in which the House should have been advised of the position. If it were an oversight possibly there may be some excuse for what he is now doing. Now there seems to be this mad urge to get rid of the affairs of the Parliament as quickly as we can and not to adopt either of the alternatives that have been suggested. If we adopt what  Senator Gair  suggested there will be no reason to alter the arrangements for tomorrow night at all. If on the other hand the Government wants to sit next week, as 1 intimated earlier this week that it should, again it has no right to take any of our privileges away from us. The Leader of the Government said that this move was brought about because  Senator Murphy  raised a matter of urgency yesterday. If any honourable senator can obtain the support of 3 or 4 senators, according to the Standing Orders, he can at any time hand to the  President  of the Senate notice of the matter about which he wants to move an urgency motion. The only stipulation is that it has to be handed- to the  President  before 12 noon. 
That is the unfortunate position in which the Democratic Labor Party finds itself. 
 I would not say that it was propaganda. I do not  think I would be hard on  Senator Gair  if I said that he would use propaganda if he had the opportunity. 1 support strongly the retention of our rights on this occasion. If it were necessary for legislation to be rushed through, we should have been told. This is not a dream that has just come to the Leader of the Government at this moment. Irrespective of the decision on this matter. I think we should at least follow it up by deciding immediately whether we will meet after the Senate election. I say to  Senator Gair  that the Government now wants to take away certain of our rights, lt fixed 21st November as the date of the election, lt could easily have fixed 5th December or 1. 2th December. In past years elections have been held on those dates. 
 The election could be held next April, as the honourable senator said. The writs do not have to be returned until the end of next June, lt is.no excuse to say that, because an election has been fixed for a certain date, our rights must be taken away. The people who are now wanting to take away our rights -were those who fixed the date of the election as 21st November. We still have plenty of time to retain all the things that we want to retain and to discuss on Thursday nights the matters that honourable senators have placed on the notice paper for discussion at that time. Therefore I believe that the Government at least ought to give some consideration to allowing the Senate to carry on in its norma) way. The Government should take a stand on whether it wants to sit after 2 1 st November or next week. I would have no objection to sitting after 21st November. 
The proposal before the Senate is even worse than I anticipated. The proposal is that we discuss the Australian Wool Commission Bill al a later hour in the day. Let us trace the history of the Bill, lt was introduced in another place on Tuesday afternoon, and after the second reading speech was delivered by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  the debate was adjourned for one day. It was resumed yesterday and I understand it continued until approximately 4.30 or 5 o'clock this morning. The Bill was transmitted to this place . together with a message from the  Speaker  of .the other place, the second reading speech has been delivered, and it is intended that the debate be resumed at a later hour in the day. Thi Senate is supposed to be in session until 1 1, o'clock tonight. How could any person have an opportunity to study this Bill before the debate is resumed later (his day? I realise that at the end of a session very many things are done - not here but elsewhere - in relation to the passage of legislation. 
I would like honourable senators opposite to name any other measure, leaving aside the Budget which concerns the financial position of the nation, that are more important than the one presently before us. Everyone here has cried - in fact buckets have been filled with tears - over the tragic position that is facing the wool growers. The Government expects these measures contained in the Bill to alleviate their position somewhat. But surely those who want to take part in the debate on this Bill should have the right to give it the consideration that it warrants. Surely they should have the right to study the Bill to see whether they want lo move any amendments, lt is not a matter of whether one side is opposing the Bill, lt is- an important measure; the Minister's second reading speech covers 24 foolscap pages. I have heard that the expenditure under this measure will amount to about $115m I do not know whether the Government expects to pick up the dollars down the street. I do not think there is anyone in this chamber who does not want to help the wool growers and others engaged in rural industry. We have our job in front of us, particularly in view of what we heard yesterday. This Bill deals with an industry that has really carried this country, as far as exports are concerned, until very recently. I doubt whether the mineral resources of this country even now are paying more into the export pool than is the wool industry. The Government is in such a hurry to finish the business on the notice paper that it does not want to give us even 24 hours to have a look at the Bill. 
All I am concerned about is that the Government has had the effrontery to move the debate be adjourned to a later hour in the day. I am not being offensive to the Leader of the Government when 1 say that. I expected the motion for the adjournment of the debate to use the term 'for the next day of sitting'. If that had been the case, I would have wanted to have explained what 'the next day of sitting' means. Does it actually mean what the words say - that we will be sitting again tomorrow and the debate would be resumed tomorrow? Even if the motion had been moved in those terms I was going to object. I think that instead of crying about the plight of the wool growers the Government should at least let us understand what it wants to do. It is all right for the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  who has his officers to provide the answers to any questions which may be asked. I am not saying that in a derogatory manner. I do not expect any Minister to know all the answers, but at least we have to determine which questions we want to ask. 
The Minister began the second reading speech at about 11.10 a.m., and he wants us to go on with the debate later today. This is just making a farce of this chamber. The Government might as well just bring in Bill after Bill and say: 'Here goes. We will not have any discussion'. In that case, the Executive would be ruling the nation. I ask the Government at least to treat the House with respect. Every member of this Parliament irrespective of his Party and the mass of the people outside want the House to be treated with respect. If the people outside knew and understood what the Government wants to do they would say: Why do we send anyone there at all?' Tins situation is just a farce. I ask the Government to give consideration to the fact that except for the Budget this is the most important measure we have had to deal with this session. 
I desire to ask the Leader of the Government a question. 
I thought it would be a good question to ask so that we can have a little pleasantry before we get down to real work. Has the Minister read the Melbourne 'Age' of today in which the Leader of the Australian Country Party, which forms part of the present coalition Administration, is reported to have said that he believed bis Ministers had an undue amount of power in the coalition? When  Mr McEwen  was asked why, according to the Press he said the reason was that his Ministers were more dynamic than those of the other partner in the coalition. 1 thought the Minister would be very happy to pass some comment on this. 
All 1 can say is that beauty is in the eye of the beholder. 
 The Australian Wool Commission Bill is, 1 suppose, apart from the Budget the most important measure that we have considered during the current session. Since the Senate will be meeting on Monday. I regret that the Government did not allow enough time for those who are not engaged in the industry to give the matter the attention it deserves. Yesterday the Government intended, after the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  delivered the second reading speech, to continue the debate in the afternoon or the evening. Now that we will be sitting on Monday, one would have thought that we would be spending more time in the consideration of the measure. It is true, as previous Labor speakers have said, that we do not intend to oppose the Bill. It is a step in the right direction, but just a step. However much  Senator Young  likes those nice words 'freedoms' and 'democracy*, we will be moving amendments to the Bill. I often wonder how many sins are committed in this world in the name of democracy. It amazes me, because I remember that in 1948 the Press of this country said that the people ought to have freedom to charge what they like. The decision may have been made in the cause of freedom and democracy but, I believe that in respect of prices it was one of the worst decisions that people of this country ever made. Ever since then the dog has been chasing the tail. Prices go up and wages go up which has a big effect on this industry. Of course the effect is not as big as the effect of the price of land. I cannot understand why the industry did not or does not today fully believe in a reserve price. There are 3 countries which control the wool of the world, particularly as far as merino wool is concerned, and they are Australia - they say we produce half of it - South Africa and New Zealand. Australia should get together with representatives from those 2 countries and have some plan to provide that those who grow the commodity shall receive a fair recompense for the work and the capital thai they have in the industry. 1 was delighted to listen to  Senator Young  because of his intimate knowledge of this industry. He was keen to mention freedoms. 1. wonder how far one can take these freedoms when they have placed the wool industry in the position it is in today. I do not say the Government rushed this measure in because there is to be a Senate election. I believe the people who brought this Bill before the House were the farmers who had meetings and marches. I. know it may not suit  Senator Young  to think the wool formers will agitate. They are becoming as militant in their own interests as the workers in the large cities. I do not blame them for it. I believe the only way one can get anything out of life is to be prepared to fight for it. 1 am not one who likes strikes, but they are a necessity in the industrial field. If the wool grower is going to sit at home and read the Press of this country and take his politics from that Press - the politics of the honourable senators who sit in the Australian Country Party corner of the chamber - he will find he is in the position which he is in at the moment with very little hope. 1 ask honourable senators to trace the history of this industry. I do not speak as a wool grower but as one who attempts to take some interest in the industries which are vital to the success and progress of this nation. Twice in the history of the wool industry there has been a compulsory price on the wool clip. 1 know it was some years ago; it was the time of the Firs! World War and the Second World War.  Senator Young  who as a wool grower has taken some interest in the politics of the wool industry knows what happened then. The wheat industry practically has a compulsory price scheme. Growers sell their wheat to the Australian Wheat Board which sends it to various parts of the world - whether it be mainland China or Rhodesia. The Board sells as much wheat as it can directly on behalf of the wheat growers oE this country and, in essence, on behalf of all people in this country. Why do not the wool growers do that? Why do honourable senators opposite  -  I say this without being offensive - mouth these shibboleths of freedom and democracy when they know it would be practically impossible for  Senator Young  or any other wool grower to establish any person in the wool industry today at the current price of land. One has to commence at the grass roots of the problem. I have always said and believed that the wool grower is just as entitled to his return for his labour as I am for mine, whether I work in the city or not. 
The problem in the industry affects not only the wool grower but, as has been said here, every decent country town. Without the wool grower's cheque how do the country towns live? But the problem not only affects country towns. Recently it was reported in the Press that 200 or 300 employees had been put off from the various rural machinery manufacturing firms. How can one expect wool growers to buy when 1 understand wool is selling at a price lower than that at which it has ever sold before. This amazes me. A few years ago woo) growers were told by the inquiry into the industry, chaired by  Mr Justice  Cook in New South Wales that those who were selling wool at auction were, to use a phrase of the man in the street, putting it over the wool grower. The Cook inquiry showed that pies were operating. These pies were in collusion in regard to the price they gave the wool grower. The wool grower mildly wants to stick to the old scheme, and to share his profit with the broker and the auctioneer. I ask honourable senators to think of the tremendous amount of wool that this country has produced over the years. To a large extent we have relied on wool. lt is true that our exports have been enhanced by the finding of oil in various States. We have saved a tremendous amount of money by discovering oil here. Of course people are paying more for oil now than before it was discovered. That is one of the greatest jokes the world has known. But still it would be tremendously handy if we ever unfortunately faced the problems of 1941 or 1942 again. Let us hope that that will not happen. It amazes me to think that some of the leaders of the wool industry were against a reserve price scheme. I do not include  Sir William  Gunn. I understand that when the leaders were fighting against the referendum proposal for a reserve price scheme  Sir William  fought for it. This is incomprehensible: Wool growers have a report that the auctioneers are putting it over them and that they are in collusion as to price. 
It is amazing to think that the Government should carry on in the same way until prices are such that even the farmers protest. However few their numbers may have been here in Canberra, in Melbourne the farmers marched in protest in very large numbers. Whether they have their meetings in Canberra, Melbourne or Jerilderie, they should remember that they are not entitled to get what they believe they should get unless they are prepared to fight for it. The Bill goes only half way towards meeting the problem. How much can the Commission acquire under this Bill? I am told that it will be able to acquire 30 per cent to 40 per cent of the wool clip. I understand that it will be able to acquire that portion of the wool clip that is in small lots. Why do honourable senators opposite not fight to have the Commission acquire the lot? All of the wheat crop is acquired. Why is the .same approach not adopted towards wool? 
The overseas countries want our wool. I know that synthetics have worn a great hole in the wool market, but overseas countries still need wool. I have yet to be told that there is a tremendous carry-over from one clip to another. In fact, I am told that the reverse is the position, that there is extremely little carry-over of wool in this country. If I were a wool grower I would say that there is only one thing to do. I would use the phrase that has been used all my life. I would say: 'Unity is strength'. I would say that the wool growers should get together, have a fair go and get what they believe they are entitled to. I would say that the Government should send its emissaries to New Zealand or to 
South Africa. They are the only two countries which can in any way influence the merino wool market. I would ensure that the people who purported to represent me did represent me. 
When I asked a question this morning about the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr McEwen)  saying not very nice things about his Liberal colleagues and their ability to get things done, I heard honourable senators opposite laugh.  Mr McEwen  said that Country Party Ministers have more power in the Cabinet than they are entitled to have. If I had that power I would ensure that the people whom I represented would not be wanting. If they were, they should do one thing to me, that is. put me where I could not hurt or could not help. 
I was fortunate enough to come upon an interesting analysis by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics of the cost of a woollen suit, lt is true that the information is a bit old; it is  7  years old. The cost of producing the greasy wool, the raw wool, the dyeing and recombing of tops, 2 lb of worsted yarn and 3i yards of worsted fabric adds up to only 24.75 per cent of the retail price. No doubt synthetics have made inroads into the wool market, but the people who are supposed to be the custodians of this industry - I refer to the members of the Country Party - have not done anything to protect the wool growers. I trust that the Bill will do all that the Government expects it to do. I am certain that those who will be here in the immediate years to come will need to move important amendments to the legislation. However much  Senator Young  might believe, in the Bill, he will forget all the nice words he uttered about freedom because he will have to protect his own interests. I understand that he is a wool grower. He will have to say that freedom is all right in theory but that in practice the wool industry needs organisations similar to those in other industries. 
The woo! industry is in a fortunate position. Wool is in a different position from that of any other rural commodity. As we were told recently by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  Australia is facing tremendous troubles in relation to the export of other rural products. If I may digress for a moment. I hope the Government does not take the United Kingdom decision lying down. The Government should consider British preferences too. In this world if one is hit on one side of the face, one should forget the Good Book and should have a go at the other person. That is my attitude. I hope and believe that something can be done for this industry. Any industry that returns about $800m in export income to the nation has to be protected. If we do not protect the industry, I would expect my friend  Senator Young  to be the loudest in ensuring that his fellow wool growers get what they are entitled to get. No-one wants the world; no-one wants more than his share. If he does, he is foolish. All one wants is a share in the decent things of life. 1 think there is every hope of putting this industry on its feet. I think the Government has to do things that possibly some members of the Country Party would never dream of doing. The Government may have to introduce a reserve price scheme. I know that there are many grades of wool. I have enough faith in the competence of the people in the wool industry to believe that they would be able to fix a reserve price. They would not put themselves out of business. They know as well as I do - possibly better than I do - that they have a very strong competitor in synthetics at the moment. But if a reserve price scheme were introduced, the position would not be as it is at the moment. The wool growers would be better off than the wheat growers and the dairy farmers. Incidentally, the dairy farmer has some tremendous worries awaiting him. The Australian economy cannot alford to subsidise all sections of primary industry. It is costing $29m to subsidise just one primary industry. It is not solving anything to offer a subsidy; it is just putting off the evil day. The wool industry is properly organised. It has had plenty of experience. In previous years it has been able to get rid of more wool than was ever dreamt it would handle. I appreciate that the competition from synthetics was not the problem then that it is today. Even so, wool is a commodity which the world needs. I understand that one-half of the world's merino clip is grown in Australia. 
We should be able to say: 'This is what we believe is a fair price for our wool'. I remember reading about the Government stepping in not so long ago and demanding better terms in relation to 2 other export industries. One was the wood chip industry. Wood chips were to be exported from Tasmania to Japan. The Government stepped in and told the Japanese - not the people in Tasmania who were interested in the industry - that wood chips could be exported only on condition that a certain price was paid. Those who come from Western Australia know full well that this was also done in the iron ore industry. Fair prices are now being paid for those 2 commodities. I believe that the same thing will have to be done in relation to wool. 
The Opposition will be proposing certain amendments to the Bill. It will be doing so because it believes that its amendments will improve the Bill. Whilst most honourable senators on this side of the chamber are not connected with the industry in any way we appreciate its importance to Australia. No doubt I will have a bit more to say when the amendments come before the Senate for consideration. 
1 regret (hat the Minister has taken the stand that he has taken on this amendment, lt seems to me that the Government has gone to considerable trouble in subclause (4.) of clause 7 to say that all members shall be appointed by the Minister. The  Chairman  is appointed a full time member. As has been stated by my colleagues.  Senator Wilkinson  and  Senator Cant,  sub-clause (2.) of clause 11 gives the Minister control over the appointment of a  deputy  of the member representing the Commonwealth. The Minister has control over the appointment of 2 deputies. The other members are allowed to select their own deputies, with the approval of the Commission. No-one can say how long the  deputy  will be there. It may be for one meeting; but it may be for a number of meetings. In sub-clause (4.) of clause 7 the Government was intent on ensuring that all members were appointed by the Minister. Why then does the Government become - if I may use the word - loose and say that of the 7 members deputies of 2 still have to be appointed by the Minister and the deputies of the other 5 can be appointed by the individual members, with the consent of the Commission? 
The Commission will play a very important part in a very important industry. Control should be kept with the Minister. The Government's original intent was that control would be with the Minister. The 
Minister still has a say over the appointment of 2 deputies the deputies of the  Chairman  and the representative of the Commonwealth. If either of those 2 wants to appoint a  deputy  because he cannot be there, the approval rests with the Minister. Each of the other 5 can appoint his own  deputy,  subject to the approval of the Commission. In this Commission of 7, I suppose the votes of 4, whoever they may be- 
No, the votes of 4 out of 7. 
Well, a quorum may be five, but decisions can be made by four. 
Well, a decision may be made by 3 members if the quorum is five. This is a fairly high number for a quorum of a body consisting of 7 members. The Minister's consent is necessary if two of the members wish to appoint deputies, but each of the other five, irrespective of what section they represent on the Commission, can appoint his own  deputy  as long as the majority of the Commission 
Well, with the consent of the Commission, and I would say it could be done only with the consent of a majority of the Commission. I do nol think a minority of the Commission could give consent. As the honourable senator said in an interjection which I was pleased to receive, the quorum is five. If the quorum is five you then have three as a majority. So 3 members can act on behalf of the Commission and give their consent. I do not see any reason why, just because (his clause happens to have been carried in another place it has to be persisted with here, because I feel that the rightful person to give consent is the Minister who is responsible to the elected representatives of the people in this Parliament 
It is not my intention to take any great length of time- 
The Minister sat down. I shall have great pleasure in sitting down if the Minister wants to proceed, because I have the utmost respect for him. All I want to suggest is that it is a case of saving me from my friends. I was going to say a few words and then sit down. If the Minister wants to speak first I will sit down. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Bull)  Order! 1 call  Senator Kennelly. 
1 think that the amendment which has been submitted is a reasonable one. First of all, when the Government appoints these people it will go to all the trouble to see that they are okayed, to use my term, by the Minister. He will put the imprimatur on them. What delay will be caused if our amendment is accepted? My colleague from Victoria,  Senator Greenwood,  said that a member might be away from a meeting for a day. The clause does not provide that a member shall appoint a  deputy  for only a day. No time limit is imposed. Following on from what  Senator Greenwood  has said, how can the member request his  deputy  to be present if he is not at the meting himself? The member has to seek the approval of the Commission to appoint a  deputy.  He proposes somebody, whether by name or in person. The clause does not say whether it shall be by name or in person. All that we are saying is that the member could get the consent of the Minister as readily as he could get the consent of the Commission. lt is rubbish to talk about being distrustful. That is poppycock. The fact is that a lot of trouble will be taken to appoint the 7 members of the Commission. The Minister must sanction the appointments. All we are saying is that if a member wants a  deputy  to represent him, whether for a long time or for a short time - even one meeting, he can get the consent of the Minister just as easily as he can get the consent of the Commission. I cannot see for the life of me why honourable senators opposite should raise any objections at all to our suggestion. We are in the position that  Senator Wright  used to take when he occupied not so long ago the seat next to that now occupied by  Senator Greenwood. Senator Wright  then wanted everything done by the Minister. He did not want any boards to have any powers. He did not want administrative acts controlled from outside the chamber. We are simply asking for the same view to be taken on this provision - nothing more or less. 
Here is my seat. 
I like to move about when 1 speak. 
Order! 1 must uphold the point of order. 
1 will move to satisfy the honourable senator who has interjected. 

 - Mr Chairman, there is no reason why you would not recognise me if I was within my rights. The interjection is a reflection on the Chair. I regret an element that was introduced earlier in this debate. I do not want to refer to it again because I appreciate that the Minister is awaiting the passage of this Bill, as any other Minister would. Even though the other place may not be sitting, the fact is that what we are suggesting will not affect very much the work of the Commission. It simply means that the members who were in attendance would have to carry out the work. The Bill provides for a quorum of 5, or 2 fewer than the number of members appointed. If our proposal is adopted it will be in the interest of keeping the Commission always under the control of the Minister, particularly in respect of appointments. 
I think Clause 14, which has few words, is important. Can the Minister tell me whether the Bill provides for a right of appeal for a member of the Commission who has been discharged for misbehaviour? I realise that this word can cover a multitude of things, but it is referred to elsewhere in this measure? I recall seeing a reference to workers compensation, but I do not recall any reference to mis behaviour. The conduct for which  a  person has been discharged might be regarded as misbehaviour by the Minister or by any other normal person, but it might not be regarded in the same light by the person involved. Would he have the right of appeal under any clause of the Bill? 
You cannot have it both ways. I do not want anyone to be working as a member of the Commission if he has been guilty of misbehaviour as it is normally understood, but misbehaviour becomes a matter of degree. In the event of what the Minister may consider to be misbehaviour a person may be removed from office but, in addition, his reputation would be taken away. J suggest that when an individual is appointed to a board the legislation relating to his appointment should provide that certain things shall be considered to be misbehaviour, and that if he is guilty of those things the Minister may remove him from office. 1 would agree with a provision such as that. It amazes me to think that whilst the Bill gives the Minister the right to dismiss a person it does not give the person who is dismissed any right to appeal against his dismissal. 1 think that any fair minded person would agree that he should have that right. I am not objecting to the right of the Minister to sack the man - perhaps 'dismiss' would be a nicer word, but in my time the word was sacked'. 
1 will terminate my own pretty soon. A person who is dismissed should be given some right of appeal against his dismissal, not so much to get his position back but to clear his character. I think this right is of vital importance to us all. 
This is a vital matter. It is true, as  Senator Wright  has said, that a person has civil rights. If a public servant, of whom we have many thousands, is sacked or has bis employment terminated, to use the nice words, although they mean the same thing, he has rights of appeal. I do not agree with  Senator Wright.  I do not know whether there is anything in the Bill that gives to a person dismissed from this Commission a right to appeal to the courts. I have yet to read anything in the Bill that says that. This may be the normal course for a public servant who is dismissed, but 1. am talking about what happens if the Minister terminates the employment of an officer of this Commission. I regret that the time we have for debating this matter is so limited. This is another reason why these important matters should not be dealt with at such a late hour. At this late stage of the sittings it would not be possible to amend the Bill even if everyone in the House agreed that it was necessary. 
When regulations are made, as apparently they will be made to make functions for which the Bill provides to be carried out, will it be possible to insert in those regulations the right of appeal for an officer of the Commission who is dismissed? Such a dismissal may never occur. I am worried not so much about a person losing his office as about the slur that will be placed not only on him but also on those who belong to him. If possible, when the regulations are being made, could a regulation be incorporated to give the individual who is dismissed from the Commission a right of appeal so that he may be able to clear his character, if not get his position back? 
1 agree with the proposition put forward by  Senator Wilkinson  that the words 'from day to day, or' should be omitted from paragraph (a) of clause 19. i do not think that the wording of this provision fits in with what the Minister said in his second reading speech. He said that the price would be determined daily or at (ess frequent intervals. If the Minister were to take out of the clause the words 'from day to day, or' he would get everything he sought in his second reading speech. The words 'frequent intervals' mean that it can be determined every hour or every 2 hours or 5 hours. The expression 'from day to day' could be taken to mean that if the price is fixed on a Monday it cannot be touched until at least Tuesday. I cannot understand why the words 'from day to day' were included as they are followed by the words 'or as frequently'. I think it would give the Commission much wider scope if the words from day to day, or* were omitted. It could then fix the reserve price as frequently as it thinks that it ought to be fixed. 
I do not think that it does. I do not agree with my legal friend. I shall be quite candid and say that I expected him to come in and say that the words 'from day to day' - the first part of this provision - mean that if the reserve price is fixed on Monday the Commission cannot do anything until that day is out. The Minister said in his second reading speech that the reserve price should be determined daily or at less frequent intervals. I cannot see why it is necessary to have the words 'from day to day' in this clause. Surely it is good enough to say that the flexible reserve price scheme operated by the Commission shall be a scheme under which, as frequently as the Commission thinks necessary, reserve prices are determined. I want to know why the legal people who drafted this Bill make it hard for the normal wool grower to know exactly what is meant. 
-There are some - I will not name individuals - who could not be classed as normal. I see nothing wrong with the second amendment which has been proposed by  Senator Wilkinson.  I do not know why a wool grower should not get the money for the wool he has sold within 14 days of selling it. Is there anything wrong with that? He is just as entitled as the Crown to get interest on his money. He may need it much more than the Commission. 
I am informed by a wool grower that he would. I would not know because 1 have not sold any. 
The honourable senator does not do too badly. I have no desire to detain the chamber for any length of time. Everything is going along nicely today. However, I regret that certain words have been included in the clause which to my mind are not warranted. I am sure that even my friend from Victoria,  Senator Greenwood,  would say that if he were drafting the Bill the words 'as frequently as desired' would be much better than the words 'from day to day'. 
No, 1 am not. Anyway, he will not be successful at the forthcoming Senate election. I am not wrong because he is No. 1 on the ticket of his Patty. Therefore it does not matter whether 1 build him up or not. 
My question is  addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Having heard what he said in answer to  Senator Lawrie  I ask him: Would I be right in saying that exactly the same sentiments were expressed when a 48-hour week, a 44-hour week and a 40-hour week were granted successively to the average workers in this country? Seeing that all those presumptions were incorrect, as time has proved them to be, would he say that his presumption this time would be the only correct one? 

 Questions 

I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport a question. Will he inform roe what benefit the wool grower obtains from the Australian National Line engaging in overseas activities and carrying his wool overseas? I point out that as the Australian National Line has joined the conference lines it must charge the same freight rates as the other shipping companies. Why has the Government refused permission to the Australian National Line to increase freight rates from Tasmania to the mainland while it has allowed the Line to become a member of the conference lines and as such to undertake to charge the same freight rates as the other members of the conference? 
I desire to ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate, lt follows the question asked of him by  Senator Webster  who endeavoured to emphasise what was happening in the Australian Labor Party in Victoria. Am 1 correct in saying that there has never been any trouble in the Country Party in Victoria because it has always been known that it is an appendage of the Liberal Party and that its representatives in this chamber are always happy to agree with the policy of the Liberal Party as long as the Liberal Party is prepared to place them in the No. 2 position on the Senate ballot paper? 
35-HOUR WEEK 
I am not making a speech. I want to ask him a question. 
I should be grateful if the Minister would inform me of the basis for his statement. If he has no basis, as undoubtedly he has not, will he admit that 20 per cent is a little out of order? 
I understand that the Leader of the Government has said that the Senate will not adjourn for an important national event. 
I am asking a question. If you want to ask it, I will sit down. Have I the floor,  Mr President? 
I am anxious about the future of the Essendon aerodrome. 1 understand that services which at present operate from Essendon will be transferred to Tullamarine midway through 1971. 
What is to happen to the Essendon aerodrome? There is talk in Melbourne of the activities at Moorabbin being transferred to Essendon, and it is natural that the people of Melbourne want to know what is happening. I believe that the majority of people in the vicinity of Essendon would be grateful if they had to contend with the noise factor from Tullamarine only, but if it is the intention to shift all flying activities from Moorabbin to Essendon after May 1971, the people of Victoria are entitled to be told. I often think that they would have much more room at the Essendon airport than at Moorabbin. I would be pleased if the Minister would inform me whether any decision has been made as to what will happen with the Essendon airport after May 1971 when the internal air traffic will be directed to the new airport at Tullamarine. 
I do not want to detain the Committee at any length but 1 understand that the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  said - and I do not want to offend the learned gentleman - that the Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education would take into consideration the question that I. raised of people getting degrees and then not being able to find gainful employment. The reason I mentioned this is that I read in the 'Financial Review' recently of highly trained physicists and chemists, people with post-graduate degrees, people with doctorates in philosophy and people with master'sdegreesin science, having no prospects of employment, and their professors complaining about lack of employment opportunities for them. I take it that we have the Minister's assurance that this Committee will look into these things; if so I will be very happy about it. 
I rise to support the amendment submitted by my colleague,  Senator Wheeldon.  While the amendment is a little weak because it says 'the Senate is of opinion', it does provide that at the end of the motion the following words should be added:  but the Senate is of opinion that the Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education should be a statutory body reporting its principles, actions and recommendations annually to Parliament.' 
The thing that caught my eye when I was reading the second reading speech delivered by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  is the fact that this will be just another body to look into the subject of research in education. We seem to have a multiplicity of bodies which are researching in this field. The Minister said: 
The Commonwealth is already assisting educational research in a number of ways. Some examples of this are the assistance given to selected educational research projects through the Australian Research Grants Committee and the Commonwealth Advisory Committee o'n Advanced Education. 
The Minister did not stop there. He continued: 
In addition there are special grants to the Australian Council for Educational Research for individual projects such as the Australian Science Education Project and the Tertiary Education Entrance Project. There are also special grants for the purposes of research and research  training  in the programme of assistance to Universities. As shown in Appropriation Bill No. 1, Division 230 5, there are Grants-in-Aid to various bodies such as the Australian-American Educational Foundation, the Australian Academy of Science, the Australian Council for Educational Research, the Social Science Research Council of Australia, the Australian Academy of the Humanities and the Lady Gowrie Child Centres, some parts of which are applied for the purposes of research. 
One can say that if one aspect of the education system has been looked after it is educational research. I have yet to know of any other walk of life in which one can find as many bodies which are supposed to have as one of their principal objects research into education. I wonder whether the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  or the Government at some time will think of combining all these bodies. It seems to me that with such a multiplicity of bodies some overlapping must occur. I would be more than surprised if there was not a great deal of overlapping. 
No-one is opposed to education itself. Some of us who perhaps were not fortunate enough to be able to have a good education in some fields do feel a lack of it. But the most remarkable thing in the political life of this country is that extremely few people have made the big grade with any academic qualifications of note. 1 go back in my thinking to 1908 to 1910. If one looks at those who may be claimed to have made the grade in a big way one finds that one cannot count them on more fingers than one has on one hand. To trace them, I would mention first the late  Hon.  S. M. Bruce. Stretching it a little bit, one could include the  Hon.  J. G. Latham. I suppose that if a degree was given to anyone for knowing how to pick the pulse of the people and knowing what he had to do to win an election, the Rt.  Hon. Sir Robert  Menzies would be included. But, going through all those who have really made the grade, I do not know how much of this research helped those who have been in this sphere of life. 
I am extremely interested in this subject but not perhaps with the research dealt with by this Bill as I understand it. I have often sought a research council to inquire into the educational needs of the nation. Let me illustrate what I mean by that remark. An officer of the Department of Education and Science was very kind at short notice, just, before the suspension of the sitting in fact, to provide me with information as to the total expenditure embracing education. This expenditure is approximately $l,272m. With all the money that is being spent on education, I do not see why - and I wonder about this - we do not ask some of these research bodies: Will you tell us what this nation will need in 10 or more years?' Everyone knows that today we are short of doctors, dentists and many other people in certain spheres. I believe this is because of a lack of educational facilities. Yet, on the other hand, I am told that recently an advertisement was placed seeking scientists with a high degree of education. A multiplicity of candidates applied for the position. 
It seems that people who are spending many years of their lives studying or obtaining degrees - up to the age of 25 years or 26 years - are finding it extremely hard to obtain worthwhile occupations to suit the talents and the educational standards that they have attained through their hard work. So, one wonders whether we are getting value for the money that we are spending. I believe that excellent research would be performed if the Government would ask one of these bodies to determine what the needs of this nation will be in 10 years time. 1 think that we ought to give special encouragement to students to study in avenues of education through which, when they qualify, they will be of great advantage to the nation. I have said here before, and I want it to be clearly understood, that I am not opposed to young ladies going to the various universities to get arts degrees. I hope that is the only purpose for which they go there, but 1 doubt it. T think a lot of them go there to find a husband and that the mother says over morning coffee; 'My daughter is a first year arts student and what is more she has met a very charming young man. Better still, his people are financially comfortable.' 
I do not decry even that girl getting an arts degree. But for the money we are spending - it is a fair sum - are we getting in our universities the best candidates for higher education? lt would be a different thing if the nation could afford to allow every charming young lady to go to university to get an arts degree. In my time it was commonly acknowledged that if you could send your daughter into the nursing profession the future looked good for her. We read recently in the Press about a young lady who was an extremely good motor cycle driver. I think T showed this article to the Minister not long ago while we were both on an aircraft. 1 think she was reported as having driven a motor cycle at 120 miles an hour. Whether that was good or bad, it was contrary to the law. I read also that the charming young lady, although she had an arts degree, could not get a job except as a messenger for some firm. I am not decrying that occupation, but her talents seem to have driven her to ride her bike as I have described. 
Education is important and we should set our mind to it and give a higher education to as many as we can. I have been a bit worried about another aspect If everyone had a degree, who would perform the more earthy occupations, if I may use that term? But if people are fitted to go to the universities we should entice them as much as we can to go into the professions that the nation needs. Some 12 months ago I asked a question about the number of young ladies in our universities. 1 do not have a grudge against young ladies. Although I. am getting on in years, to me they are still very nice and beautiful creatures. But are we doing the right thing by cluttering up the space in our universities with large numbers of young women? The Minister was good enough to give me the number of young ladies who were doing an arts course at Monash University, Latrobe University and the University of Melbourne, and we tried to find out how many of them went further and did their diploma of education. The percentage was very small. I will not say that for a young girl who has an arts degree education is the only avenue in which she can employ her talents. But it is not uncommon today to read about young ladies, no doubt brilliant who have graduated from university having to go back to school, as we put it in my time, and learn typing and shorthand in order to get a job as a commercial stenographer. 1 will not say that because nf their degree they would be better than those who never had a degree, but 1 do want to say that the degrees these young ladies have are not helping the nation. 
Some people may say that in order to help the nation everyone should have a degree. I would not mind that if it were possible to do it. We are a very wealthy nation and no doubt we can afford the money that we are spending, and no doubt as the years go on and the population grows and the urge for education is as great as or greater than it is today, more money will be spent. As far as I am concerned it would not matter what money was spent. I believe it is not wasted. Bw let us look to what the nation needs. Let us do a little bit of planning. When the Minister mentioned in his second reading speech all the research bodies I thought to myself: 'We are getting research plus." I ask whether there is any hope of getting all these bodies together. If they have to work in different spheres of research, those who know more about the educational desires or wants will be better off. But I cannot understand why we keep on adding another body to those already mentioned by the Minister when we have no planned education scheme for the good of the nation. The Minister could say to me that we want a body that will look into what the nation needs in 5 or 10 years and that we will then go into vocational guidance and get young boys and young women to enter the universities to fill the vacancies that exist in the professions. I think if we did that we would be spending our money better. The amendment asks for a statutory body which will report its principles, actions and recommendations on a yearly basis to Parliament. I think one clause in the Bill says something about a report to the Parliament. 
 That is right. Clause 8 states: 
The Minister shall, as soon as practicable after each 30th day of June, cause to be laid before each House of the Parliament a report . . . 
Be that as it may, it is not what we want. We want a statutory body. I will not go into the arguments whether that will be better or otherwise. I will leave that for somebody else. But I do say that we have a multiplicity of research bodies. I am not decrying the contention that everybody should have a university education. I think the country people and a lot of people in the metropolitan areas know how hard it is to get a doctor when their wife and kiddies are sick. There is a scarcity of doctors. I think everyone would be much happier if we could fill that vacuum and the vacuums in the other professions that are sorely understaffed. 
I rise only because of the rather risky statements made by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  without reference to any facts or figures. He said that seamen earn an income of over $6,000 after 12 months. 
The honourable senator is now saying something different from what he said earlier. If he wants to be provocative, we do not mind, and if he wants the sitting to continue we do not mind that either. 
If the honourable senator wants to get back to Queensland he can go. The Minister said that he did not want to be provocative because he was speaking in reply and therefore closing the debate. 
I will leave the honourable senator alone. I was kind to him a few weeks ago in a certain State, but if he wants it he will get it. It ill becomes the Minister to make statements that cannot be substantiated. Not one senator on this side of the chamber opposed the remuneration that  Mr Justice  Eggleston laid down. When there is no opposition to a Bill such as this, it is best not to deride what somebody else in another class of work receives as remuneration. Even that is open to very great argument, because no proof at all was submitted of the hours that men at sea work, whether it is a 40-hour week, a 50-hour week or a 60-hour week.  Senator Wright  has been in politics quite a long time. I regret when replying to a Bill he has taken the opportunity to have what I would call a 'shot' at people by saying something which has nothing to do with the Bill at all. He attempts to deride them in the occupation or the profession that they follow. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I suppose that this would be one of the most important debates in which one could participate. It should give those honourable senators who take part in it some idea about what is going to happen to the majority of the people of this country. It is true that Australia is facing an inflationary period. The first thing that is always attacked by anti-Labor forces during a period of inflation is, of course, wages increases. If I remember correctly, the last 6 per cent increase in wages was given because the members of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission whom this Government appointed to fix wage standards in Australia fixed them on the basis of the capacity of industry to pay. 
The Government of this country has told us over a number of years that we should always abide by the umpire's decision and that we should never criticise what the umpire says, but it would appear as though that rule applies only to those who are in the position of having to accept what the umpire says. To my mind it is remarkable that the Government should be going out of its way to criticise the recent wage decision because of its effect on the nation's economy. I do not intend to say that an increase in wages, granted by the Commission because it could be borne by industry, should bring in its wake increases in the price structure.  Senator Sim  has belittled price control, but I want to know how else the status quo can bc maintained. 
The Commission has said that the wages it has laid down can be paid because it believes that industry can pay those wages. As soon as wage increases are granted to one sector, people in all walks of life look for a flow-on of the increase, whether it amounts to 6 per cent or not. How can people be satisfied with their lot if, on the one hand, the Commission says that they are entitled to a 6 per cent increase because industry can affort to pay it and, on the other hand, hardly before the ink is dry on the paper - to use a hackneyed phrase - we have the spectacle of State instrumentalities increasing their charges, housing commissions increasing rents, etc.?  Senator Sim  said that the proposal before us is more or less a catch cry employed by the Australian Labor Party. I believe that the worst election result was that of the 1 948 prices referendum. I could never understand why the people who, in the main, had their wages fixed were not prepared to carry on with the idea of fixing the price of what they bought with those wages. I know that the glorious words 'people want freedom to buy' sound nice. 
With successive years of inflation - in some years the inflation has been greater than in others-we now find ourselves in a position which does not help our exporting secondary industries. How can we expect to be a great exporting- nation if our cost structure is not placing us in a favourable position compared with that of other nations? I do not deny that one element of the cost structure is wages; but I do not say that that alone - bearing in mind the added productivity in industry over the years. - has placed us in a less favourable position than that which we enjoyed prior to the arrival on the scene of this tremendous scourge called inflation. Today people in the ..rural sector have tremendous worries. The Government is providing $27m to; keep dairy farmers on the land. Sooner; or later whoever is ruling the country has. to face up to the problem. I have no desire, to see farmers or average wage earners not get the necessary amount of wage, or profit, if we could call it such, that would, give them a proper standard of living. Some years ago  Mr McCarthy,  who was Secretary of the Department of Commerce and Agriculture, conducted an investigation into this industry. He was respected by people of all shades of political opinion  because he was one of the big men of -.the administrative staff. Whether or not we liked what he said or whether it was good or. bad politics, he made certain findings. Everyone walked away from them.  His  findings were not popular. - &gt; 
Now I deal with wheat. We are overproducing, whether we like it or not. Some people say that we will be able to get out of our plight if there is a drought in Russia or if we are able to sell more wheat to China if that country has a bad year of production. We are worried also about the wheat crops in the United States of America and Canada. If providence provides us with a bountiful year, or even an ordinary year, there is still this phenomenon of wheat in the granaries of the producing countries and millions in the world, according to what we read, on a starvation diet. It is not a matter of our not being able in recent years to find a method of increasing production; it seems to me that we need to find a method of getting the product to the people who want it. I was never in favour of increasing the acreage of wheat. [ always thought wheat was a gamble. We have had . a big market in China. While we seem to be keen to sell our wheat to these people, in the world councils, we are never keen to recognise China. Today . we do not seem to be in a fortunate position in regard to the sale of our wheat to China. Some say that because Canada has recognised China it has sold a very large parcel of what to China. At present we are 'hoping. I do not know whether the wheat farmers can live on hope. 
I deal now with- the wool industry. The Government has- stated that it will give assistance amounting to S ! 00m to the wool industry. Surely no-one thinks that ' that will rectify the -position i of the wool growers. We should combine with South Africa and New Zealand, as we did towards the end of the war years. That action proved to be successful. That would be a combination of the 3 largest merino wool producing countries in the world. Why do we not say: 'Fix the price at which that wool is to be sold.'? It could be done, 1 believe I am correct in what I. say. I have yet to know of any large carry over of the wool clip in Australia. I think the same situation applies to the other wool producing countries. The Government of this country says that it will make available $l.00m to the wool growers because it believes that may alleviate some of the problems they are facing today. I read where someone has worked out that that will mean around $160 to the average wool grower. I am repeating what I have heard. I do not know whether it is true but I have never seen it contradicted. I have yet to find out how we can patch up an industry which over the long years has been the backbone of this country as far as our exports are concerned by giving out money. Doing this has not improved the position in the dairy industry and I believe it will not do it in the wool industry. Today we have to get the best brains which this country can produce to work in order to find out what is wrong with the position. Let us have the courage to do this otherwise the problem will mount up year after year and season after season. Honourable senators will find that the industries of which I have spoken - particularly the rural industries - will not cure themselves. It it tremendously heart rending. I can understand the feelings of that poor unfortunate fruit grower in Shepparton. I suppose he broke down because he had so many tons of pears to sell and the Shepparton cannery would take only a certain amount. He is faced with financial disaster. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
 I ask you a question.  Mr President.  Will you ask your officers to make an investigation of car parking at Parliament House, particularly on the House of Representatives side? Some people seem to have no concern about whether they park on footpaths or anywhere else. Possibly the car population in this city is greater proportionately than in any other city, but I would like you to request your officers to investigate the position, particularly between 9 a.m. and 9.30 a.m. when one is faced with the spectacle of cars blocking footpaths. I trust I have directed my question to the right source. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. We know that 5 per cent per annum was charged on all leasehold land in Canberra. Will the Minister be good enough to tell me how much the Commonwealth received from that 5 per cent imposed on individual people for their leaseholds? 

 - Mr Deputy President, the debate on the Broadcasting and Television Bill 1971 affords us an opportunity to discuss certain matters that are of interest to the nation in regard to broadcasting and television. lt is most remarkable that this Bill was first introduced some time in March 1970. The Bill was aired further during the Budget session, and now it is placed before the Senate for debate. One wonders why the intervening period was not used to hasten the passage of the Bill. That is the history of the Bill. 
In leading for the Labor Party in this debate,  Senator McClelland  said that we did not oppose the Bill but that in the Committee stage he would move 2 amendments. One amendment would deal with the promise made by the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme),  lt is most interesting to me that the Postmaster-General should make a promise that a Bill will take effect from a certain date. This has financial implications. I would be the last to say - and T mean this - that from my statement it can be inferred that 1 am suggesting anything improper on the part of the PostmasterGeneral. But, 1 am not so politically naive that 1 do not know that great political implications are involved in the fields of broadcasting and television. I would like to know - and I think that the Senate is entitled to receive an answer - why the Minister made the statement that the provisions of this Bill would operate retrospectively to 22nd October. 
However, under the Bill now before us, the provisions which were to operate from 22nd October will operate now from 12th December. I ask: Were any transactions carried out between 24th October and 12th December? Has anyone escaped the net? The Postmaster-General can find the answers to those questions. We on this side of the Senate for quite a number of years have expressed our concern at the very many underhand methods that have been and are being used to contravene the Broadcasting and Television Act with respect to the number of broadcasting licences and television licences that can be held by one firm or by one person. Everyone knows that this Bill has been introduced for one reason, lt has been introduced to stop nefarious practices developed by * the most proper people. God forbid that anyone would hear me say that John Fairfax and Sons is not the elite of the proper. 
Of course,  Sir Frank  Packer comes from the same line. The nefarious practices that have been used by these people to obtain additional licences or to exercise control over more licences than those people are entitled to under the Act have been such that one does not wonder that these practices have proved to be too much for those who sit on the side of the Chair opposite to us. If it were not for the support given by those people through the mass media - that is, the Press, television and radio - which they control, those sitting opposite us would not have been able to fool the people as long as they have fooled them at the time of certain elections. 
I believe the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  who represents the Postmaster-General here and who is in charge of this Bill, at least should spell out in unequivocal language why the statement made or the promise given by the Postmaster-General has not been carried out. I ask the Minister also whether she would inform me - no doubt other honourable senators would like to know too - whether any transactions, which could be classed as evasive moves to cover up what they had been trying to do, have been engaged in between 22nd October and 12th December by those persons who exercise control over broadcasting and television stations? .. 
As I have said,  Senator McClelland  has foreshadowed 2 amendments which will be moved at the Committee stage. The Labor Party proposes by the second amendment that the right should be given at any time - instead of the period being restricted to 2 years - for a person who is convicted of not holding or renewing a broadcasting and television licence to move to have the conviction set aside. 1 remember speaking in support of this type of proposal some years ago. 1 do not support people who do not abide by the laws pf this country. I am not like the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  who believes thai ' certain trade unions will pay money that they were fined prior to an amendment to' 'the Conciliation and Arbitration Act relating to the matter on which those unions were fined. Wilh some knowledge of the industrial life of this country, I think that it' would be wise to forget that portion of the Act. If this was done, I believe that 'we would see more harmony in industry than we see now. 
I have been moved to participate in this debate following on -2 very interesting speeches that were made, last .night. T refer first to the speech made, by  Senator Hannan.  I regret that, following the period of his absence from the Senate for  3  years he has not returned with anY greater political sense. 
1  told the honourable senator that it was going to happen. I never go behind a person's back.  Senator Hannan  interested himself in a station of which I am  chairman. 
I admit that it is. With my colleagues. I run it well. 
There is no more exploitation there than there is in the honourable senator's timberyard. Now, if the honourable senator wants to play it that way, we will play it both ways. I am  chairman  of the company that holds the licence to operate radio station  3K.Z.  Senator Hannan  said that the licence for that station was held by the Australian Labor Party. Again  1  must ask the honourable senator to keep to the facts. I thank God that the licence to operate that station, when granted in  1931,  was not given to the Australian Labor Parly. If it had been, possibly the Labor Party would not have that licence today. Members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party know what happened to certain things that belonged to the Australian Labor Party in  1955. 
 Now. Vince, let us not get onto that subject. We do not want to have a quarrel again. 
If you want to revive this subject, I do not mind. You can make it as rough and as tough as you like. You will enjoy it and I will too.  Senator Hannan  was in error when he said that radio station  3KZ  is owned by the Australian Labor Party. I say: Thank God that the Labor Party was not given the licence in  1931  because possibly we would have lost it in  1955  and that station certainly would have been ruined in recent years. 
No,  1  am not. 
No, we do not own it under any alias. Neither do you own your timberyard under any alias. 
The licence to operate radio station  3KZ  was given to the Industrial Printing and Publicity Co. Ltd in  1931.  The wise people who led the Australian Labor Party in those days decided that, to avoid the consequences of any changes that might take place in the Party, the licence should be sought by a company that at least would be' able to operate it. So, the Industrial Printing and Publicity Co. Ltd owns the licence. 
Does the honourable senator want to know? 
The Australian Labor Party owns  1.000  shares. The Trades Hall Council owns  1,000  shares. The union controlling the printing industry owns  1.000  shares. Other bodies hold varying parcels of shares. I and 2 other colleagues hold  1 0,000  shares in trust. 
I am not complaining about anything. I am only answering the question that was put up by a person who has returned to the fold, that is.  Senator Hannan.  He said: 
On monopolies and quasi monopolies, the  Australian  Labor Party is in no position to cast the first stone. Kinged around Australia is a series of powerful radio transmitters which continuously feed out  the  old, worn out discredited and useless shibboleths of Labor Socialist propaganda. 
All I can suggest is that, after he heard them and learnt them at his father's knee during his tender years, his father kept the faith but he did not. Anyway, the Labor Party does not own  3KZ.  The honourable senator said a little later:   . . the net profit to the Labor Party last year from the operations of 3KZ  was  $156,000. 
His figures are wrong. 
1 Shall tell the honourable senator that at some other time. The fact is that the figure was not as stated by the honourable senator. 
1 am a bit too old in the game to be drawn in by a remark like that. A little later, when referring to a property owned by the Industrial Printing and Publishing Co. Ltd. he said that we charged $1,000 a year rent to Val Morgan and Sons Pty Ltd, a company which is the proprietor of 3KZ, the better broadcasting company. I should like to know where the figures cited by the honourable senator came from. They have never been published. Today I spent more than an hour trying to find these figures and so I say with great respect, and regret having to say it, that 1 would be a very bad judge if that information revealed bv the honourable senator in this place was not gained by him while he was a member of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. 
 lt is all right for the honourable senator to say that. 
 I have been to the Library and endeavoured to get this information. 
I did not. At no time have 1 ever mentioned that word. Perhaps the honourable senator's mind is such that he interprets my words to mean that. I have tried through 3KZ, through the Industrial Printing and Publishing Co. Ltd and through the Parliamentary Library to get the information which was stated by the honourable senator last night and have been unable to get it. The honourable senator said that the information was available from the Library, but the Library cannot produce it. 
No member of my Party would have that information. I reiterate that the information used by the honourable senator in. this chamber last night was obtained by bini in the course of a job that he was given because he was defeated in an election. 
 I invite the honourable senator to prove me to be wrong. Let him get a copy of the 'Financial Review' from the Library and show me the figures. 
The honourable senator said that the information was contained in a copy of the 'Financial Review' which was available in the Library, but I challenge him or anyone else to get that from the Library. I have .tried to get that information. It shows how low one can get when one is given a job because he is defeated- 
I refuse to withdraw them. 1 said nothing offensive. All I am saying is that the honourable senator said that everything he had disclosed was reported in the 'Financial Review', so there was no problem about the matter as it was available in the Parliamentary Library. I have spent hours trying to find this material. The ladies in the Library have been very kind and have sent notes to me to say that no statement has -appeared in the Financial Review' giving this information. It is not that the Labor Party has anything to hide. I am delighted that our station is a financial success. But let us consider what your station. 3XY- 
lt was owned by the Liberal Party in conjunction with Hoyts, and recently it was sold to the Age' newspaper company. The Liberal Party ran that station so well that for 3 years it was rated eighth out of the  8  stations in the Sydney and Melbourne ratings and in one year it was rated seventh. Compare that with the way we run our station. In the last  4  years we have never been lower than joint second in the ratings and have been rated first. Of course our station is a success. This shows that we are able to run things. 
Others who follow me will keep the faith and so long as (hey keep the faith I shall be happy. We may not always win, but sooner or later you will see the wisdom of much of what we do. I should like to refer now to my ex-colleague,  Senator Little,  who has had something to say by interjections. He said that we should get rid of the programme Labor Hour' because on that programme someone referred to him as a monkey.  1  look at him and I think the comment was unfair. He said also that someone referred to him as a liar. If anyone in the course of a radio programme referred to me as a monkey I would say that he was a bad judge because I arn a bit better looking than that, but if he referred to me as a liar and a thief I would make him prove it in the courts. Do not tell me that  Senator Little  does not know how to go about getting a copy of a transcript of what was said during a radio programme. He has only to write to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. Every script must be kept for 6 months. Unfortunately we have struck a little trouble on that station with foolish people saying foolish things and we have paid. 
Do not confuse the Kennelly argument. If I may revert to  Senator Hannan's  remarks, the honourable senator talked about the Labor Party owning station  2KY  in Sydney. It does not own that station and has never owned it. 
I do not know, but I am saying, and perhaps I am giving you more credit than you deserve, tha't if you heard them you should have gone on with the matter. I would have tried to do something about it for the honourable senator and to settle the matter. 
We have a lot left. The honourable senator knows for how long I have been an official of the Labor Party. During that time we have never been broke and we are not broke now.  Senator Hannan  went on in an airy fairy way and said that station  2KY  in Sydney was owned by the Labor Party. That station was never owned by the Labor Party. The licence was granted to the Labour Council of New South Wales. 
How this; how that. The next point is that the only station the Labor Party owns in New South Wales is  2HD  in Newcastle. 
 The honourable senator is so lacking that he would not have a fight with anyone at all. I have never heard a greater .Communist bailer in my life. Yet he comes into this chamber and supports selling China steel that comes back in bullets in Vietnam and he and all his colleagues are worried that they will not be able to sell further wheat to China. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order!  Senator Kennelly,  please return to the Bill. 
I just thought that I would give a little back.  Senator Hannan  then referred to South Australia. He was on the Broadcasting Control Board. He would know what percentage of the Methodist station in South Australia the Labor Party owns - less than  5  per cent. It is true that  4K.Q  in Queensland is owned by the Labor Party. The Labor Party in Western Australia has never owned a station. As one who was looked after by his colleagues when he was out of the Senate by being given a job, at least he should have, gained some knowledge and not come into this chamber and, wittingly or unwittingly, made a speech that is full of inaccuracies and provides information a portion of. which he could have obtained from only one source. Last night he said: 'I am not allowed to disclose any of the Control Board's figures'. We are not ashamed of the figures of profits that we make. We have to submit them. We have adhered to everything. Wc have to. under the law. 
I will, lt was about 2.5 per cent for the year that  Senator Hannan  quoted. I have worked it out at about 2.5 per cent on what the station is worth. 
On what the station is worth. Members of the Government parlies are very prone to gloat if a Labor government enters into the business world and makes a mistake and loses. I do not know Bourke's; but I know what the ACTU is. I ask the workers of Victoria always to go and support their own shop. I know that they will do so. 
Of course it is a free advertisement, just as the honourable senator wanted to give Myer's one earlier today.  Senator Hannan  will be here for three and a bit years. God forbid that he will ever get in again. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order!  Senator Kennelly,  you must not refer to the Deity as you have. You have used the expressions 'God forbid' and 'For God's sake', and I ask you not to do so. 
If my statement offends you in any way.  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I humbly withdraw. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Thank you. 
The last thing I wanted to do on Ash Wednesday was to be blasphemous. The Senate is a wonderful institution, lt is an institution which should be respected and which expects those who stand up on their feet to speak the truth, to bc careful and not to make rambling statements implying everything in the world. As one who in June .will have had 33 years in the parliamentary life of this nation, let me give some little advice to  Senator Hannan:  Have' a look at the facts. No-one minds an honest mistake. But when an honourable senator stands up here and says things which, to my knowledge, could be obtained from only one place- 
When one obtains information from a certain place one is bound to retain it. 
As one of my colleagues says, under oath, lt seems that  Senator Hannan  will go to any lengths to submit a case, as long as he thinks it will please those nice young ladies or elderly ladies who have the right to select the first second and third Government candidates for the next Senate election. 1 say in conclusion that, as  Chairman  of Directors of the Industrial Printing and Publicity Co., I am not ashamed in any way of the profit we are making. We have run a successful business. I hope that as long as I am in that position we will continue to do so. Just as I believe that the people can run many activities for the nation, I believe that my first job as a member of the Labor Party is to show that we can run a printing organisation and a broadcasting station that are helpful to the nation. 

 - Senator Gair knows as much about it as I do.  His  memory of what happened when he sat in the councils of the Party is not that bad. 
I do not mind that.  Senator Hannan  complained by inference that we did not take the advertisements of other political parties, lt is true that we do not do that. 
I suggest that the honourable senator read the Hansard report of his speech. We do not take the advertisements of other political parties because there is nothing in the Act that says that we have to. If one does not take paid advertisements from any party, one is clear. It is true that we advertise the Labor Party on 3KZ. 
Yes, it has. 1 referred to advertisements. 
Yes. Under the Act we are bound to do that. We are bound lo broadcast the policy speeches of the recognised parties. As  Senator McManus  knows, we carry out the provisions of the Act. But it is a matter of fitting things in at limes when we can fit them in. I hope that, with minor amendments, the Bill will be passed. I believe that it will do something in the interests of television. 1 cannot understand why the Commonwealth does not act in conjunction with the States to obtain the name and address of each purchaser of a television set, in order to facilitate the collection of licence fees. The Postal Department must be spending great sums of money on the employment of inspectors, who must miss at least half the people who do not hold licences. Some evaders are detected, but it is a conduct of business that would not suit me. T ask the Minister why the operative date was changed. Were there any relevant transactions between 24th October and 2nd December, or whatever the dates are? if the Minister will give that information the matter will be laid to rest. 

 Senator HANNAN (Victoria!-  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I claim that T have been misrepresented, In the farrago of nonsense to which we have just listened it was claimed that I had said that radio station 3KZ had refused to accept Liberal Party advertisements. 1 made no reference to such a refusal in my speech. As for  Senator Kennelly's  other implications, the information in respect of which I spoke is available from sources other than those to which he referred. 
May I raise a point of order? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  -  Senator Hannan  has claimed to be misrepresented. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether L. dopa will be available as a restricted national health service benefit for the treatment of Parkinson's disease when the new pharmaceutical benefits are listed on 1st April next. If the answer is in the negative, will the Minister explain why? 
I join with other speakers in supporting this Bill. I do not go along entirely with what  Senator Byrne  said, particularly his reference to Japan. The sugar industry is one of the industries of which Australia can be proud. At least we can be proud of the fact that today it is not in the position of the wool industry, the wheat industry, the egg industry or the dried fruits industry. In the main, whatever primary industry you name, with the exception of the sugar industry, is in tremendous financial trouble. One must give credit to those who led Queensland over the long years - people like Ryan, Theodore, Mccormack and Forgan Smith, not forgetting  Senator Gair  for the part he played in maintaining this Agreement and looking after the industry. 
There used to be a rather small beet sugar industry in Victoria. For some years prior to World War II we were allowed to grow beet sugar around the town of Maffra to serve the Gippsland portion of my State. Then the war came and the land around Maffra was used to grow vegetables. The manufacturing plant was converted to dehydration plant to treat the vegetables so that people in our armed forces and our allies could be fed. 
Earlier in this debate we heard an Australian Country Party senator sing about the virtues of the control of this industry. I ask honourable senators on the Government side: If you can control this industry why can you not do the same to others? I do not mean all others. The honourable senator said in an interjection that there was no home consumption price for wool. That is true. But there is a home consumption price for wheat. The price of eggs and dried fruits is fixed. The price of butter also is fixed. But all those industries today are in such a financial mess that one wonders why we have so much opposition from our friends on the Government side of the chamber when we speak of planned production in industry. I agree with  Senator Byrne  in that I do not think the people in the big cities of this nation disagree with paying a home consumption price for sugar. That price, of course, is lower when the sugar is used in jams and preserves and other commodities that Australia needs. The thing that worried me greatly with this industry a few years ago when there was a marked increase in world prices was that those who controlled the giving out of land for sugar in Queensland foolishly extended the acreage. The high prices at that time were due to the fact that Cuba, a great sugar producing nation, was having a bad crop. What happened later? When Cuban sugar came back onto the world markets, together with the production of the Philippines, another big sugar producing country, those who went into sugar production in Queensland for the first time were in very dire straits. 
 Senator Gair,  as  was said earlier, attended the big international sugar meeting in 1953. One should not argue about sugar production or sugar control with anyone who has been the Premier of Queensland because it was the Queensland Premiers who, in the main, kept the industry as it ought to be. I was surprised by  Senator Byrne's  remark about Japan increasing its sugar imports from Australia. He said that we should consider what Japan takes from this country. Japan or any other country does not take from this nation anything that it can produce itself in sufficient quantity to feed its own people or to feed into its factories and then to sell to the world in the form of manufactured goods. No-one would dream of saying that Japan buys coking coal for its furnaces from Australia simply to suit Australia. No-one should think that Japan imports iron ore from Western Australia simply to suit Australia or Western Australia. In world commerce today it is impossible for each nation to balance its Budget so far as imports and exports are concerned. I respect  Senator Byrne  but I hope that he does not get his own way. We do not want to reduce our tariffs and allow into this country Japanese goods manufactured under conditions that we do not want here so that Japan may buy extra tons of sugar. I am certain, on reflection, that he does not agree with that. Therefore I hope that in the representations he implied that he will make to some people, whether they be Ministers in this Government or persons occupying some other position, he does not use for his argument the claim that because Japan buys wool, iron ore, minerals, sugar and now beef we should go out of our way to meet Japan Let us hope that our exports to Japan uplift the standards of her people to such an extent that she will buy an appreciable amount of the primary products that this country has in abundance and for which, apart from meat, we now have extreme difficulty in finding a market. 
I agree to a large extent with the other matters that  Senator Byrne  mentioned. I doubt whether the north of Queensland would have been populated as it is today if it were not for the sugar industry. One has to look also at the defence aspect. 
It was. I am glad that my friend has put me on that train because it is something on which I could spend at least 10 or 15 minutes. The kanakas were bought into the country by the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd and were put out of Queensland not by  a  Labor government, as history shows, but by a government which was then classed as a Liberal administration - I use a capital L - which is something different from the name some people adopt in their politics today. When one thinks of the growth of this industry -  Senator Byrne  said that 8,000 farmers were engaged in it - one recognises as one goes north just what sugar means to the north of Queensland. 
This industry could strike difficulties in the future. I understand that if certain people on the Ord River had their way they might grow sugar. Whether they would find a market for it or whether they would be able to process it is their concern, but it has been mentioned. What will happen in 1973 or 1974 when New Guinea has its independence? We then will not be able to say to the people of New Guinea: 'You cannot grow sugar cane.' From what I have read, the climate and the soil of New Guinea are extremely suitable to the growing of cane. No doubt we will be anxious to protect our own industry. 
Who could be a more able interjector and a greater help than  Senator Byrne  when he says to me that we are using New Guinea cane to improve our varieties and, no doubt, our production? I shall not say any more except that I wish the industry well. I hope that this country never gets into such a position that it believes that because Japan buys A, B or C from us we have to buy D, E and F from her when to do so will undermine the conditions  of  the people of this country. 
 That would be the only result if we lowered tariffs on our industry. I notice that this Agreement has been signed by the Prime Minister of this country, on the one hand, and by the Premier of Queensland on the other hand. I understand that it has to be signed in the presence of the parties. I do not wish to raise old troubles but I am disgusted to think that the signatures were witnessed, on behalf of the Commonwealth, by a secretary in an office and, on behalf of Queensland, by the State Minister for Primary Industries. No doubt this document will be studied in other parts of the world, and one would have expected that common sense would have been used. However competent a certain person may be - I admit that person is very competent - when a document is signed on behalf of the Commonwealth of Australia let it be witnessed at least by a person who has some standing in the public life of this country. 
In directing my question to the Minister for Health I refer to the answer he gave a few minutes ago to the Leader of the Opposition about making a statement on heart disease. As a Victorian, the Minister is aware of the plight of kindergartens in our State and I wonder whether he would also make a statement on that matter which is causing a great deal of trouble and worry, particularly amongst young mothers in Victoria. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the Goverment to borrow $250m to lend to the Australian Wheat Board in order that the Board can meet a commitment to the Reserve Bank for money that it had borrowed to pay wheal farmers for the 1969-70 wheat pool. I understand that the amount borrowed was in the vicinity of $389m. The Government is doing no more than playing its part as guarantor. That is not always a sound proposition, but if we are to sell our wheat, which is not as easy to do as it once was, the farmers have to be paid at least portion of the money to which they are entitled. Therefore, until it sells the wheat, the Board has to borrow money to enable the farmers to have at least their liquid assets. 
The Australian Wheat Board had agreed to repay its loan by tomorrow, 3 1st March, with money that it would obtain from the sale of wheat and from money to which it is entitled from the Commonwealth stabilisation fund. The money in question was loaned to the Board at5½ per cent interest. That intrigues me a little. I am not opposed to this measure because we must do something to alleviate the position until such time as we are prepared to grapple with the whole question of rural production in this country. At present we are dealing with it only in a piece meal fashion. We give$1 00m to the wool growers and then the Government agrees to the Tariff Board's reducing customs duty on synthetics. To me, that does not add up. On the one hand, the Government hands over $100m to try to save the wool growers and, on the other hand, it reduces the tariff on synthetics which are wool's main competitor. 
I doubt whether there is a rural industry in Australia which we are not subsidising in one way or another. Let us trace the history of this. I see my young friend allegedly a farmer and a very nice fellow 
He is young and he will get his turn so long as he is faithful. We have to grapple with the situation in which our rural industries find themselves. We are paying subsidies amounting to $127m on butter, and are assisting the dried fruits industry and other industries. Everywhere one looks today there is a subsidy of some kind. If we are to keep people on the land in the economy that we practice today, this amounts to- 
I do not know. 1 do not think that is the position, according to my reading. 1 only want to help the farmers over the stile but the stile is getting pretty steep. One of the most important things that this country needs today is a committee - select whomever you wish to comprise it but select the best brains that this nation can provide to tell us what is wrong. 
 I would not suggest anything. That is a matter for decision by those who are in a position to make that decision. 1 am amazed that the Board has been able to borrow the money at 5i per cent interest. Last year when the Board borrowed money for this purpose the interest was 5 per cent. 1 ask myself this question: What does the normal young person pay in interest to the Commonwealth Bank if he can get money from the bank for a house? ls he not entitled to get the money he needs? Is he nol entitled to help? I want to help the wheat farmers but I also want to help my own people. I understand that those young people who can obtain a loan from the Commonwealth Bank for housing - they are hil by inflation just as much as anyone else in the community - are paying a much higher rate of interest. In my view it would be much better to give the Board an outright subsidy and charge the Board the current rate of trading interest. Thai would not affect the wheat grower one iota. 
This Bill has become necessary because the Board has not been able to sell our wheat at a price which would permit it by 31st March, which is tomorrow, to repay the money that it has borrowed. We have heard in this chamber that we should not trade with this country or with that country, that we should not have anything to do with this country or with that country and that we should not acknowledge one nation in particular. Canada recognises mainland China and, according to reports, Canada this year has received an order for $70m worth of wheat. We are being foolish. We recognise the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Can anyone tell me that there is any ideological difference between Russian Communism and Peking Communism? We have to look at this matter very seriously. 
One reads that Great Britain is striving to join the Common Market. If she is successful there must be an effect on our wheat sales to her. I cannot see the member countries of the Common Market allowing Britain to act in such a way that their secondary and primary industries will be affected. Suppose Britain were to say to the member nations of the Common Market: In the matter of primary products we have to look after the countries which are part and parcel of the Commonwealth'. I do not think they would do that. We will have tremendous difficulties in finding markets for our wheat, not only now but also in the future, if what we expect to happen does happen. In his second reading speech an this Bill the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  said that the Australian Wheat Board estimated that it would need Si 90m from the Reserve Bank, but he did not seem to agree with the Board's estimate because he said that it was proposed to lend the Board $250m. That is a rather loose way of conducting a financial transaction. 
It seems to me that the Board does not know where it is at the moment. I admit that it must have sufficient funds to cover its expected requirements, but when it asks for SI 90m and it actually needs $60m more than that one cannot have much respect for estimates made by the Board. Be that as it may, the Bill now before us is necessary. The Reserve Bank is very wisely governed by an Act which provides that money which it lends must be repaid within 1 year. The year ends tomorrow and, therefore, it is necessary for the Bill to go through tonight. No doubt on 1st April the Reserve Bank will receive its money. 
 I do not know that we could say it is April Fool's Day when the Bank is to be repaid money that it has lent. I do not think it is necessary to say more on that subject. One could go on at great length and speak about sales of wheat today, but I propose to refer to sales of wheat in days gone by. I do so because on 24th February this year my young Victorian friend,  Senator Webster,  asked the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  who represents the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in this place, a question which he thought would have some effect on the byelection for the division of Murray. I do not blame him for having thought that, but I believe that that was the main purpose of his question. At page 281 of Hansard for 24th February this report appeared: 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question. 1 was intrigued by his reference to the present Treasurer as the Right Honourable the Treasurer. I just want to ask: When did this happen? 
It has not happened. I was thinking of a previous Treasurer. 
I wish to ask the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral a question. The Minister will recall that in the last Budget excessive increases were imposed on postage rates for journals. 1 think the increases ranged from 300 per cent to 400 per cent. I am concerned about this from the point of view of the union journals, because I think the only way to keep people interested is for them to get the journals and be informed about what is happening and so prevent the control of a union falling into the hands of one or two people. Let that be as it may. Will the Minister ask the PostmasterGeneral to obtain from his officers a report on whether the excessive increases have made postage rates uneconomic. 1 know that a number of unions instead of posting their journals once a month now post them once in 6 months. This applies also, 1 think, to the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria which delivers Hs monthly journal instead of posting ii. I would be very pleased if the Minister would obtain a report on the matter to let the Senate know whether this means more or less revenue for the Post Office. 
Very seldom have I taken part in an adjournment debate but  Senator McManus'  speech caused me to rise. Let us at least do away with hypocrisy. All of the things that  Senator McManus  wanted to be done could have been done if he had been in earnest a-bout them. Let us be fair. Do not let us fool ourselves completely. The Australian Democratic Labor Party, to which  Senator McManus  belongs is responsible for the Government's being in office. He and his colleagues claim that the Government has not done what they want it to do. I can  assure  you,  Mr President,  that if I held the balance of power the Government would do what I wanted it to do. 
Knowing my ex-colleague of years gone by, and knowing how he can fight for what he believes to be right, I am surprised that he should say tonight: 'I am disappointed. The Government has done nothing for the rural sector. The Government even has not had a decent debate on the inflationary condition in which the nation finds itself.' The 5 members of the Democratic Labor Party who sit in the corner could have moved for the adjournment of the Senate on any day they wished to discuss this matter. In the few days left to me I have no reason to stand in this chamber to make any more hard speeches. Some have said that I have made enough. I do not want to leave this chamber with bad friends, but 1 ask honourable senators to judge the speech of  Senator McManus.  lt should be judged. He is a capable  speaker  and he used a lot of nice words but he knows politics as well as I do. We were together for nearly a quarter of a century. Let him not come here and say in that nice manner, using nice words: '1 am disappointed. I am shocked that nothing has been done.' 1 say without any hard feelings that if nothing has been done the fault lies in his corner more than it does anywhere else in the Parliament of this nation. lt hurts me to say that speeches are made here that are wonderful for the consumption of the rural dweller, whether he be a shopkeeper or a farmer, but that does not put a shilling in his till; that will not give him an additional penny a pound for his wool; that will not help him to sell his portion of the 150 million bushels of wheat already stored in this country. If we do not do that we lose markets. I give members of the Democratic Labor Party credit for having political strength in this country but I regret that they do not use it more to obtain the things for which they tell the people they stand. I regret that the speech has been made. I regret that it was a political rather than an honest speech. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 10.38 p.m. till Wednesday, 7 April at 2 p.m. 
 I join honourable senators in congratulating  Senator Kane  for what we of the hard school refer to as breaking the ice. He will now find that things become easier. I support him in the matter that he has raised as a matter of urgency. The honourable senator referred to the grave deterioration as a result of inflation in the economic position of senior citizens. Surely one could nol fail to agree with those words. While the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  was speaking I went outside the chamber and obtained interesting figures which show that there has been a grave deterioration. In 1949 the age pension was 24 per cent of the average weekly earnings. In October 1970 the age pension was 16.9 per cent of average weekly earnings. I would say that a drop in pensions from 24 per cent to 16.9 per cent of average weekly earnings could rightly be described as a grave deterioration of the pos:tion of pensioners. 
Although J agree wholeheartedly with the proposal  Senator Kane  has put before the Senate for consideration, I cannot agree altogether with some of the remarks he made. With modern finance and business practices today I admit that there are a number of small investors in a lot of industries, but when all is said and done, if one examines the position it is found that the people who gain the most are those who put in the major portion of the finances. Whether this position is right or wrong is a matter for debate. But the facts arc that, although the capital is spread to a very small degree, those who receive the greatest dividends are far removed from the small investors. I have often considered this position in relation to inflation. 
The Minister endeavoured to paint a very glowing picture of the situation from 1950 to 1970. I am sorry to inform him that his concept of the situation does not agree with mine. I went to the Library and found thai in comparison with the 1950-51 figure the consumer price index rose by 112 per cent in the December quarter of 1970. The Minister has said that this is a very great triumph for the Government. What he calls a triumph and what 1 call a triumph are different matters. 
 I now refer to the subject of senior citizens. As stated in the House of Representatives Hansard of 31st March, the general Government expenditure on health and welfare expressed as a proportion of gross national product for the year 1968  -  I take it they are the latest figures - is as follows: Europe-Denmark 20.48; Germany 17.95, Sweden 17.45, France 16.8. A number of other countries are listed but I do not want to take a quarter of an hour in reading them out. If one looks at the figure for the nation of which I and the Minister arc citizens, one finds that health and welfare expenditure represents the princely figure of 7.09 per cent of the gross national product. To my mind that bears out very greatly what  Senator Kane  has proposed in the terms of his motion. 
My friend from Victoria,  Senator Greenwood,  has said that insurance premiums paid by a citizen are tax deductible. That is true. He mentioned that a person can receive a tax deduction for insurance premiums paid of as much as 51,200 a year. Lel me put the matter on the line. How many people classed as average wage earners could. expect to pay out SI, 200 a year in insurance premiums? A person earning an average wage, which I suppose is from $76 to $80 a week, or approximately §4,000 a year, would be a pretty good economist if he could spare 51,200 a year for the purpose of reducing his tax. So we ask ourselves: What are we to do? 1 do not exclude the possibility that a lot of the responsibility for the present inflationary situation rests on the shoulders of the people themselves. Having taken an interest in politics in this country for about 55 years, I am of the opinion that the greatest disaster which befell the Australian people was as a result pf the prices referendum in 1948. 1 do not say that we would hot have a mild inflationary situation even if the proposal had been carried at that time, but at least we would have been able to damp it down. But today the sky is the limit. If ever there is talk of increasing the salaries of senators, one is rather amused to see the headlines which appear in the Press, but the fact is that we suffer in the same way as does the ordinary citizen. When 1 look back over the years - the Minister can look back also - and think of the price of land, say. 20 years ago and compare it with the price of land today, 1 asked myself: What hope do the young people have? Honourable senators opposite cannot say that governments could not have prevented this position. Of course they could. The price of land was pegged in 1949. Governments of the same political colour as that which the Minister supports have lifted controls on land prices, and of course the price of land has just gone haywire. 
I looked also at the question of loans today. I remember reading an interesting speech made some time ago by the then member for Balaclava,  Mr Joske.  If I remember correctly, he is now a judge of the Commonwealth Industrial Court. In his speech he took by way of example two persons who had £5.000 to invest in those days. One person put the money into a loan at 3i per cent interest.  Mr Joske  compared this with . the case of a person who put £5,000 into real estate. The result would astound honourable senators. I do not know whether government loans are being filled today but I have often wondered why it is that you cannot have a variation in interest rates. If a government wants to raise loan moneys for the progress of the nation at least the interest rales should be flexible. 
I believe a lot more could be done by the Government. Firstly, a lot more could be done in relation to superannuation payments to Commonwealth employees or even in relation to superannuation of senators, because in a few weeks time I may be receiving a superannuation payment. 1 make no bones about the fact that I am concerned to see that superannuation payments made to people who have served in this chamber are brought up to date. But 1 am vitally interested in the superannuation payments made to Commonwealth employees. If my memory serves me correctly, some adjustments have been made to these payments but the adjustments have not kept pace with the decrease in the value of money. Unless the Government corrects the position, the standard of living of those who move on to superannuation payments must of necessity fall. 1 doubt whether the Minister meant this as he said it, but as I understood him, he said that this debate was delaying the passing of social services legislation. I think that at times wrong words are easily said. What the Minister said does not appear to convey what he may have meant to convey. I think he has used the wrong words. I think the Senate would be extremely wise if it carried more of these fine resolutions. Each of us could learn what the other's point of view is, irrespective of his political party. 1 have never thought that the Labor Party was other than the best. One would expect me to say that readily. 
Perhaps we have made a few mistakes.I will not say how many. I will leave that subject. If this motion is carried, it will do good. It will say to the Government that the majority of the Senate wants the Government to do something more than just utter words. The Minister said that positive action will be taken. That will be most interesting. I hope we will be able to learn what the positive action is so we can say that  Senator Kane  has not stopped the passage of important legislation by introducing this matter, because some good will have come from it. When  Senator Webster  was speaking,  Senator Byrne  interjected and said that in the economy, as it is today, there has to be at least a small measure of inflation. Possibly that is so, but how long can this country suffer inflation when it continues to increase at an average of 3 per cent to 4 per cent a year? 
I am not worried about what is happening overseas. God forbid! I am worried only about what is happening here. We are not paid to govern overseas. 
If you. want that wider vision and if you want to rectify the wrongs of the world, I leave them to you. I am more concerned with the wrongs here. I know that my time is almost up. I support very heartily the motion. 
by leave -  Mr Deputy President,  will the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  give the Senate some idea of what the days of meeting will be between now and the end of the current session? This is a personal matter as far as. I am concerned, but I think that all honourable senators should be told. We do not know when, we will be meeting or whether the Senate will sit on Friday. If the Minister cannot give us this information now, will he in the near future tell us what is expected of us? 
f shall not occupy the time of the House for very long because 1 agree with the principles contained in the Bill, (n view of the fact that the national wage increase has been applied to Second, Third and Fourth Division officers of the Public Service, I see no reason why it should not be applied, not only to the officers mentioned in the First Schedule to the Bill but also to those to whom  Senator Murphy  has referred. I thought that his address was one of the most informative addresses on this matter that I have heard for a long time. I see no reason why certain individuals should be singled out to receive the national wage increase, whilst a great number of others who .are equally entitled to it do not receive that increase. A principle is at stake. I was interested to read that the increase will be backdated to 14th January. I am not opposed to that. I hope that when a Bill to increase the salaries of members of this and another place is introduced it too will be backdated to a reasonable date. 
We have read a lot in recent times, by those people who seem to be able to get Press coverage, of the need for sending into the parliaments of this country, particularly the national Parliament, those whom they regard as the best men. Whom do they regard as the best men? If they think that they can get the class of person whom they consider to be the best for the job, having regard to what is paid to members of this Parliament, they have another think coming. I am at liberty now to talk of our salaries with .the greatest gusto because I leave here in a very short time. I have always believed in helping my fellow human beings. When everyone else in the community is prepared at least to ask for what he regards to be a just salary, it is out of all reason that we should sit here like meek mice who are frightened because the Press barons of this country will have something to say about us. I hope, although 1 will not be here, that during the Budget session consideration will be given to the salary of those who are here and that they will be placed on a decent footing. 
When the last increase was granted - .1 think it was in 1968  -  some of us tried to get our salary tied to the. Second Division of the Public Service but the Government would not have that. Our salary was increased to bring it to a little under the lowest rung' of the Second- Division. However, 2 or 3 weeks after the Bill was passed - very shortly afterwards, anyway - Second Division salaries jumped by a fair percentage. I do not say that officers in the  Second Division were not entitled to the increase, but if. 'annoys me to think that because some people in the Parliament are frightened of what the Press may say members are treated in a way that at times makes one ashamed to think that one was ever a member of Parliament. It is nice to be able to help the other fellow but it is not a bad thing to look at your own position. 1 will not be affected but those who are still here will be. We should speak up to those people who tell us what we should do and what we should not do, and who say that they can run the country better than we can or better than those who preceded us ran it. They always seem to be able to get headlines if and when the Government of the day sees fit lo introduce a Bill to increase the salaries of members. 
Although I agree with the Bill and believe that the remuneration and allowances in question should be increased. I agree with  Senator Murphy  that we should have regard to others in similar categories. Why handle it in a piecemeal fashion? I ask honourable senators to have regard in the future to their own position. You never gel anything unless you are prepared to ask for it, and you are not entitled to anything if you are frightened to ask for it. I and others who are retiring will not be affected unless, as has been done in this Bill, our increase is backdated to 14th January, but those who are left will be affected unless their remuneration and allowances are increased. That however was not my reason for rising to speak. I rose because I am annoyed at the people who claim that they can manage the country better- that we can. 1 do not claim that governments, irrespective of political colour, have not made mistakes along the road, but the fact remains that we are here because we have been chosen by the people to represent them. Let us not belittle ourselves by not doing the fair thing in the matter of remuneration for those who are prepared to give a great deal of their time in the interests, as they see it, of the nation. I trust that the Senate will give credence to the proposals of the Leader, of the Opposition. There can be no reason why we give the increase to some and not to others. If we gave it to all, as it seems now with the remuneration and allowances in the list read by the Leader of the Opposition, then it is more a matter of parliamentary decision than it was in the .past. IE that is done I believe we will be able to say that we have treated those people who we believe are entitled to the increase as they themselves believe they ought to be treated. 
I ask the Minister, representing the Minister for the Interior to inform the Senate, and me in particular; whether the Minister for the Interior was stating the Government's policy when, as reported in today's edition of the 'Canberra Times', he said that he was unsympathetic to poker machines", known in the past as one armed bandits-, being introduced into the Australian Capital Territory. If he was not enunciating the Government's policy, I ask the Minister to tell the Senate when we can expect to hear the attitude of the Government on this question. As one who is vitally opposed to the operations of these machines in the Australian Capital Territory I am most anxious to know the Government's views on this matter. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  Was the last question which was asked a question on notice, a question without notice or a question that was sent by the Leader of the Government in the Senate to one of his supporters to ask of the Leader of the Government? 
With your permission,  Mr President,  I shall answer the question. In fairness I think it should be made clear that frequently honourable senators on both sides of the chamber - that includes  Senator Kennelly's  side - have indicated to a Minister that they will ask a question in a certain direction. Without naming any honourable senator I can look about me and see in the chamber honourable senators who have adopted that procedure. That is the first point. The second point is that I speak in the name of the Prime Minister and for the other Ministers whom I represent in this chamber. In fact, in my capacity as Leader of the Government in the Senate 1 could be asked questions in relation to any one of the 26 portfolios. Of necessity I try - I hope I am doing the right thing - to anticipate something that may be asked of me so that I can give a comprehensive reply. If  Senator Kennelly  or other honourable senators do not want me to do that. I wish they would so indicate because that would make the position very much easier for me. 
Some people might be surprised by the way certain people voted in the last division. 
It was not. Let me make my own speech in my own way in my own time. I voted against the motion which was just put for one reason. I was not voting against the motion which was originally moved by  Senator Byrne. 
All I know is that the bells rang because a vote was to be taken on the gagging of the debate and the Australian Labor Party decided to vote against the gagging of the debate. My Party did not vote against the principles enunciated in the motion of  Senator Byrne.  All I want to say is I hope that the enthusiasm which the Australian Democratic Labor Party has shown for the contents of its motion will be equally shown in August of this year when the opportunity will be before the Senate of implementing the wording of the motion. 
It does not help the Democratic Labor Party's case to say that 1 will not be present on that occasion. I know that I will not be present. All I am saying is that I am certain that, if the Democratic Labor Party takes the opportunity of supporting the terms of its present motion at a time when its support will mean something to the parents and children of this country, a majority of the Senate will be only too pleased to cooperate. As I said the other night, it may be good or bad politics to put up such a proposal at this stage - I think those people in this country who know politics will say that it is bad tactics - 'but one must be prepared to support one's contention in August. 
All  I  am concerned about is putting the facts of the case to the Senate. I cannot visualise anyone of this side of the House disagreeing with the terms of this motion on that occasion. 
The fact of the matter is the Australian Labor Party wants the Democratic Labor Party to submit this proposal at a time when something can be done about it. More is involved than the question of those people who listen to the broadcast of these proceedings saying that there are only 6 people in the Senate who want to do something about the children of the nation. The supporters of the Democratic Labor Party know as well as I do that they have over a number of years had an opportunity at the right time to come in behind my Party and stand up to what they are proposing. 
I know that  Senator Little  wants to say to the people of Australia: 'Look what we have done', but if this motion is carried at this juncture will it mean that the parents of this nation will get one penny more? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! The time allowed for this debate has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 10.45 p;m. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior: Has he the information I spoke to him about prior to the meeting of the Senate? What was the cost of reconstruction of the building in Melbourne known as the old Customs House and which is used at present for Federal members' offices? What was the tender price accepted for the maintenance work now being carried out on this building in Flinders Street, Melbourne? 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the present circumstances of the aviation industry, I ask: Could the Minister inform the Senate of the percentage drop in the number of passengers carried by both the internal airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd over whatever period he may have the figures for? 
I am a little concerned about this motion. I understand that this afternoon we will discuss what is to my mind one of the most important matters we can discuss namely, the land in the Australian Capital Territory and its cost and the Government has said that we must finish that debate at 6 o'clock. That means that we will have about 4 speakers, if we are lucky. I have always opposed the idea of estimates committees because I believe that the Estimates should be dealt with in the open, in the Senate itself, and that we all should have a go in our own way. It seems remarkable to me that the Government can close the Senate down at 5.45 or 5.55 this afternoon and give only four or five people the right to stand up and voice their opinions on a matter that concerns more than 200,000 people, or whatever is the population of the city of Canberra. I object to that. I oppose it. I oppose the motion only for those reasons. I think that the residents of Canberra and the Australian Capital Territory should have an opportunity for their case to be presented in a befitting manner. All honourable senators who wish to state a case ought to have an opportunity to do so. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - You have moved the motion? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In addressing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior I hope that he will pardon me for prefacing it. Two pleasure ferries were grounded by aquatic weed growth in Lake Burley Griffin yesterday. The control of this weed now exercised in Australia - it is only partially successful - is costing about $2m. Will the Minister request his colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry, to consider and decide on the following questions? Will he invite  Dr Prowse,  Professor of Fish Culture at Malacca, Malaysia, a recognised world authority on aquatic weed-eating fish, to visit Australia for the purpose of informing Australians in general, and officers of the fisheries section of the Department of Primary Industry and State Departments of Wildlife and Fisheries in particular, of the breeding and eating habits of aquatic weedeating fish commonly known as Chinese carp? Will he send one or two officers of the fishing section of his Department to meet  Dr Prowse  in order to obtain all available information on the habits, both breeding and eating, of Chinese carp? Will the Minister for Primary Industry as  Chairman  of the Australian Fisheries Council, a Commonwealth and States body, seek approval of that body for the importation of a small number of Chinese carp in order that their habits, both eating and breeding, can be tested under Australian conditions? 
I regret that the Government has moved the motion before- the Senate. We commenced this session on 16th February. . 
Had matters of urgency not been raised, firstly, by the Opposition and. secondly by the Australian Democratic Labor Party I do not know what we would have done at that time. No legislation was placed before us. We are about to debate a Bill which some of us believe to be unnecessary, the Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill 1971. This Bill, commonly known as the law and order Bill, will need to.be debated extensively. God forbid that some of my friends in the corner whom I have known in the past should rush to support the law and order Bill. Their whole being and ancestry will not want them to rush and support it. I nearly cry when I think of it. As if we have not already had enough of law and order. The ancestors of my friends in the corner and my own ancestors hated the thought of the law and order which was being dished out to them. 
It is an important Bill on which I want to spend some time. Why should we divide the Senate? It is true that there was never any thought that sensible people would say that a quarter of the Senate should be doing work elsewhere:  Mr President,  as you know I never wanted these Estimate Committees established. I wanted the time to be taken up here. I believe that everything ought to be done here. But the majority of honourable senators decided otherwise. Because of the numbers attending I do not know whether the committee system is a success. Now we are going to take a quarter of the membership of this chamber and let those honourable senators deal with other affairs when the Government wants legislation rushed through. If the Government does not want to think of anyone else I ask it to think of me. I would like another week in the Senate. After the first week in May 7  would be  quite prepared to come here as long as I am not kept here on Saturday because I guarantee that I shall not be here on Saturday. Is there any need for all this rush today? We have plenty of time afterwards to keep going. From what I read the Senate will not meet again until 16th August. The Government says that unless the work of the committees is finished by tomorrow and a report is presented matters will be placed in an awkward position. But in the past I have been in many awkward positions. The numbers can always rectify awkward positions as far as this Senate or any other house of assembly is concerned. 
I regret the action taken by my friends. I would like to see them in their true spirit of fighting in opposition. They know as well as I do that this' is not the way to carry on the work of this chamber. I ask them even now to have a second thought on the matter. What will it matter if we have to sit an extra week? Do not divide the Senate. Do not take the numbers away. This morning I ascertained in a party room that legislation is pouring in. I admit that we could not receive it as early as we would like. We have been sitting since 16th February and surely to goodness in the last week we are not going to rush legislation through. Why must we have this situation? I admit it is not easy because when we consider the legislation we have passed to date there must be more to come. We have sat since 16th February and we are fast getting into May. If the Government wants to have legislation turned out like sausages out of a machine and to take upon itself the whole administration of Australia it can forget the legislative enactments of the States: 
I ask the Government not to go on with this proposal. Let us carry on in the way we ought to carry on. If the Government wants the committees to sit it will have to find time when they can meet. They should not meet while the Senate is sitting. I hear that the Government wants the Senate to sit on Friday. Am I correct? 
Let us forget about this Friday. Let the committees sit on Friday and if the Government wants to sit extra days next week and the week after I am certain speaking for myself that co-operation will be given. Do not split the House as is proposed. I hope the resolution will be defeated. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) (4.40) - in reply - I do not want to speak at length in the debate. I put the proposal as I saw it. Honourable senators have reacted and points of view have been expressed. I think the most effective way to decide the matter is to put it to a vote. I have responsibilities as Leader of the Government in the Senate.I think honourable senators understand that. I am going to move a subsequent motion in terms of sitting hours.  Senator Kennelly  can respond to that. But the fact is that I am not suggesting that we are going to finish at the same time as the other place finishes. To the contrary, I think that the time may well extend beyond that date. But I want, as I think other honourable senators want, to try to stay as close to that time as possible within reason and without prejudice to the conduct of this place. 
Question put: . 
That the motion  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson's) be agreed to. (The President - Senator Sir Alister McMullin) 
-In opposing the motionI endorse the remarks of  Senator Poyser,  who has just resumed his seat. I am concerned about the Friday sitting. I think it is a shocking thing for the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  to inform the Senate at 4.45 p.m. today that the Senate will meet on Friday. Is there no respect for those who have appointments on Friday? The Minister is very kind in a lot of ways. He is always fair in that he does not jump on people. Surely he would not say, at 4.45 p.m. on Wednesday, irrespective of the arrangements people have for Friday, that the Senate will meet on Friday. What does a Friday sitting mean from a business point of view? The proposed hours of sitting are from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 2.15 p.m. to 4 p.m. Out of the 3 hours prior to the lunch break roughly one hour is normally taken by questions. That leaves 2 hours for debate. In the afternoon session13/4 hours are provided for debate. By trying to bend everyone to the will of the Government for the sake of 33/4 hours work on Friday, those who have engagements are placed at a disadvantage because the numbers that the Government has will keep them here for 33/4 hours as a result of a motion that was moved at 4.45 p.m. on Wednesday. I ask the Minister whether that is fair. 
Some senators, particularly those travelling to Tasmania, cannot get home on Friday because there are no flights on which they can travel. My friend  Senator Lillico  told me that, because of a meeting last Friday, he did not get home until after 5 p.m. on Saturday. Whatever the position is with regard to other senators, surely the Government should consider the plight of those who have to travel- long distances. I do not think the Government is entitled to bulldoze this motion through at the inconvenience of others, especially those who have appointments. We should also consider the senators from Tasmania. If they leave Parliament House at 4 pm., possibly their plane will leave Canberra at about S.30 p.m. They cannot get a plane home that night. Unless they live in Launceston or Hobart they will not arrive home until well into Saturday afternoon. All this is for 3 J hours extra for discussion. 
If the Government wants co-operation in the last 2 or 3 weeks of the sitting I can assure it that it is not asking for it in a proper manner by moving a motion such as this. I ask the Government at least to give some thought to this point: The Government is not entitled, in any shape or form, to come here' at 4.45 on a Wednesday and say that we have to meet here on Friday. That has been done. While I endorse the arguments advanced for the sitting next week, considering that we have plenty of time in the future, to say the least and not to be unkind, 1 think it is beastly unfair at this time to say that we have to meet on Friday. 
I have listened with interest to some of the speakers who have participated in the debate. I dismiss the speech of  Senator Hannan.  I have yet to hear him not commence a speech on a subject on which honourable senators have different opinions to his with his favourite phrase that their opinions are a farrago of nonsense. I do not think that he enlightened the Senate to any great extent with his contribution to the debate. 
Let me talk about what  Senator McManus  had to say. I want to be quite candid and say that I deplore the intrusion of one person into another person's office. I think it is wrong. However, the law is there to deal with such an intrusion. I was surprised by the fact that  Senator McManus  seemed to blame the demonstrators for what the court did. Some of the demonstrators were apprehended and prosecuted. The police did the right thing by prosecuting them. However, I think it is altogether outside the realms of the Bill to blame the demonstrators for what the court did. I do not agree with what the demonstrators did, but I do not think that it is right to attack them simply because the court, in its wisdom or otherwise, put them on a bond or gave them a sentence which was not a severe enough punishment in view of the law which they broke. I do not agree with their action. I think they were wrong. 
But this Bill will not improve the position. I have been amazed by some of the decisions which have been given by courts. I say that quite candidly. However, one should not blame a law simply because the courts do not impose sufficient penalties under it. I ask: What will this legislation achieve? Is there not already legislation on the statute books which will achieve the same ends?I agree that the right should be given to the courts of this country to punish people who act contrary to the law, but I object to this legislation because I think it is unnecessary. I do not agree with the idea of people sitting down in the streets in protest. I think they are mad. I do not like the long hairs. I know that in certain places I am called a square, but I like to be one. The fact is that long hair is the fashion. In the 1920s and earlier when I was young my generation got away with a lot of things that could not be got away with today. The trouble is that the Government is bringing before the courts only some of the people who break its laws and it is forgetting to bring the others before the courts. It put 5 women in prison in Victoria recently, but when a week later other people did what appeared to be the same thing it made excuses for their actions. I am not saying that I want to see these people put in gaol. All I am saying is that because of the way in which it is operating the law the Government is giving some young people the idea that they can get away with certain things. I believe that this position has arisen largely because of the Government's policy on the conflict in Vietnam. It will not declare war although Australians are being killedin that country. The young people of Australia cannot comprehend some of the Government's actions. In their minds the war is not worth fighting. 
I will leave it to their consciences. I will let them think about the matter. I am old enough to know what happened during the 1914-18 war, particularly at the end of it. There were no troubles then. It is true that there was a conflict about conscription in those days. It is also true that there was disagreement with the policies of the government of the day. No doubt we did in those hectic years as much as the young people are doing now, in proportion to the population then and now of the city in which I lived; but there was no talk of anyone doing anything against the nation as a nation because the people believed that this country had a right to be at war. The same applies to the 1939-45 period.  Senator Young  said that the Australian Labor Party introduced conscription. 
The honourable senator said that earlier in the form of an interjection. Of course the Australian Labor Party introduced conscription. Why? Because this country was in danger. The Labor Party did not run away from the responsibilities it had at the time. The fact is that the Government is today sending a certain number of young people to a war in which the majority of the people of this country do not believe. If one reads about what is happening in this regard one will agree with me that it is a plain joke. Therefore, is it any wonder that the young people of today are using- 
I do not abuse anyone unless they abuse me. 
I am sorry. I withdraw my remarks. I believe that we should adopt a commonsense approach and say that we have no right to ballot certain young people in this country into a war that the majority of the people of Australia do not believe in. 
Debate interrupted. 
In the time since the debate on the Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill was adjourned last evening, it has crossed my mind to ask why this legislation was introduced. Going right back to 1926, I remember a Federal election that was fought on law and order. There was one other election in my lifetime fought on the same issue but I forget when it was. The first one concerned a strike of British seamen.  Mr Bruce  was the Prime Minister of Australia at that time and Matthew Charlton, the then member for Hunter, was the leader of the Labor Party. The election was fought on law and order. I do not want to recount the results of the election. Then one other election -I cannot recall when it was - was fought on the same issue. So I asked myself: Why was this legislation introduced? Was it brought in for the purpose of another election campaign? Of course, at the time there was trouble in the Government ranks. No-one was sure who would be Prime Minister of the country. If the exPrime Minister had had an astute political adviser he would still be Prime Minister. After all, you can do no more in politics than win. With all the aeroplanes at his disposal he could have brought that chap down from Townsville. But history now shows that the present Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  came on the scene. 
Just prior to allthis,MrBob Hawke, on behalf of the Australian Council of Trades Unions, which he represents, entered the retail trade and had a slight altercation with the biggest manufacturing firm in Australia, British Tobacco Co. (Aust.) Ltd. During the course of his speech  Senator Webster  said that  Mr Hawke  wanted to purchase goods at his own price. The longer one is in this chamber with  Senator Webster  the more . one realises that although he is a nice young fellow he has one Very bad fault, his tongue just rattles off without any facts. 
-I donot mind  Senator Webster  having grave doubts at any time because no-one will take any notice . of his grave doubts.  Senator Webster  said that  Mr Hawke  desired that the retail firm with which the ACTU had become affiliated obtain goods at  Mr Hawke's  prices. That was totally wrong. All  Mr Hawke  said to British Tobacco, which I suggest is one of the biggest retail firms in this country with all its ramifications, was: 'You had' better give us the right to buy the goods and we will sell them at the price at which we want to sell them. Then I thought that perhaps this Bill was in the minds of people who thought that this move of  Mr Hawke's  would precipitate a tremendous industrial crisis in the nation. But we do not fight strikes today as we fought them in the years gone by. Even the trade union movement has learnt from experience. 
That is a very nasty term. Honourable senators in the Country Party may use it in politics because they just sit in the corner over there without a political thought ever crossing their minds, except for the proposal they submitted recently, that probate duty should be abolished. If all country people want probate duty abolished and succeed in having it abolished, people in metropolitan areas will have to pay double. I do not know whether the honourable senator is engaged in the dairying industry as well as the timber industry. No doubt he is engaged in rural industries. I thought it was most improper that a person should ask for an Act of Parliament or an executive decision from which he would stand to gain in a roundabout way. I thought that surely the honourable senator would npt reach the stage of asking the Government to reduce or abolish probate duty so that he would gain thereby. 
I do not even say that about my friend. 1 think he just made a slip of the tongue. However, I am giving the Senate my ideas on why I thought this Bill was introduced.  Senator Webster  used the word 'blackmail'. Well, who blackmails whom, or what? That is a very nasty term for the honourable senator to use. It is easy for him to use it in this chamber. Even I can say nasty things at times, but I do not want to say nasty things this afternoon. 1 give this bit of advice to the honourable senator, because he is not a bad boy: Cut out that blackmail stuff because in the first place it is not right. All the ACTU said to- British Tobacco was: 'You will serve our store with your goods. We will, pay what you ask and we will sell them at our price.' How can it be said that that was blackmail? It was the simplest strike ever won in the history of our State. ' The ACTU merely said to the members of the Transport Workers Union: 'You by pass any of the firms connected with British Tobacco'. 
British Tobacco is Dunlop's. Within 2 or 3 days the mighty  Mr Dunshea,  who is the head of the lot, did the sensible thing and said: 'I cannot win'. 
It was not blackmail. 
The honourable senator does not like having his nose rubbed in the dirt. Anyway, the ACTU took the simple way out, and  Mr Hawke  said to the transport drivers: 'Do not go there. Carry on with your work. You will get paid and we will get our goods.' 
-=-Senator Prowse says that it is a protection racket. When the Government was first introducing the Trade Practices Bill the very people whom  Mr Hawke  confronted or their like, put enough pressure on the Government to force it to take out of the proposed Bill the clause dealing with price maintenance. By applying a little bit of the power that it had the ACTU cut out this practice of resale price maintenance. 
I have thought about the purpose behind the introduction of this Bill. It seems that the bad judges on the Government side of the chamber - and ' they are all badjudges - thought there would be a tremendous industrial upheaval at about the time of the introduction of this legislation. Honourable senators opposite used to take out the flag and wrap it around them, but now they do not. As the Yanks are getting friendly with the Russians, I suppose that the Corns are not as good a riding horse as they were. The Government is now worrying about relations with China. The Government must be getting a bit short  of material with which to fool the people of Australia. Who wrote the words: 'Patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel'? I suppose that my learned friend on my right,  Senator James  McClelland, would be able to tell me who wrote them. They are famous words. The waving of the flag is not as good an issue as it was on which to fool the people of Australia. As I said last night-4 will not walk away from anything I have said - I do not think that anybody has a right to be a nuisance or to deface property, but the reason why there are protesters today is the legislation that the Government is a party to. As I have said before, if we were involved in a war in which we believed we would have no need to go. to the extent to which the Government has gone. If the Government wants to bring in conscription, which is distasteful, to the Australian Labor Party, and1 it has the numbers it can bring it in, but it should be conscription for all. The Government is taking young fellows out of the community, by its famous ballot box method and the people of Australia are up in arms in protest. 
On reading through the Bill I was amazed at some of the wording contained therein. My thoughts were verified by  Senator James  McClelland in the excellent speech he made last night. The legislation refers to persons assembling on protected premises or at a place in the vicinity of protected premises. I can only repeat the question which  Senator James  McClelland asked, which was: What distance is meant by the word 'vicinity'? The Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood),  who represents in this . chamber the AttorneyGeneral, is a lawyer of distinction in my own city of Melbourne. He may be able to tell me how far away from these premises people can safely assemble. What is meant by the word 'vicinity'? Has it ever been defined in law or in common sense? Does it mean 5 yards, 10 yards or 20 yards? 
Or, as my colleague interjected, a much greater distance. The Opposition believes that this matter ought to be explained. As'  Senator James  McClelland pointed out, the Bill is covered by legislation which is already on the statute book. Nobody can go into a Commonwealth building today and commit an offence which is contrary to the Crimes Act or to any other legislation, Commonwealth or State, and get away with it if the authorities do not want him to get away with it. One of the Opposition's great objections has always been the fact that the Government prosecutes the weak and lets the strong go free. As I pointed out last night, it put 5 women into Fairlea prison. It may be their fault for going where they went. You certainly would not get me going to gaol if I had an opportunity to get out of doing so. However, the fact of the matter is that other people went up to one of these Commonwealth offices a few days later- 
Yes it was the  same  one, and they did exactly the  same thing. 
 Yes, they did. They gave out handbills in the same way. 
 Yes, they were given a cup of tea. Fancy them being given a cup of tea while the women had to go to gaol for doing the same thing. I happen to know personally one of these women. I do not like her politics, but I hate to think that we have laws in this country that put 5 women into Fairlea prison but allowed a federal member of Parliament to get away with committing the same offence. It should not be thought that I am advocating that he ought to have gone in. I think he was a bit silly to put himself in the position where he might have gone in. I would not do that. AH I am asking is: Why did the Government allow others to get away with breaking the same law that the 5 women broke? That' is not the only example of the Government failing to administer the law. Some people are prosecuted today for burning their draft cards and others are not.. Is it any wonder that there are people today who are protesting against the unfairness of these laws and the administration of them? Some people believe that protests should not be voiced, but honourable senators on this side of the chamber know better: Where would the average worker be today if he had sat down and taken everything that the Government, the arbitration tribunals or anybody else gave him? The only reason workers are getting: a bit of their own back now is because of the employment situation at present. If one traces the industrial history of this country one finds that antiLabor governments have done as they liked with the workers; but things are changing today. I was rather intrigued by clause 6 of the Bill, which relates to assemblies involving violence or the apprehension of violence. I will quote it. I commence at the middle of clause 6. It reads: 
. in a way that. gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that the assembly will be carried on in  a  manner involving unlawful physical violence to persons . . . &gt; 
Who is the clairvoyant who is going to say that something will happen? 
I shall read the clause again for the benefit of my most esteemed friend opposite. I will read clause 6 from the beginning for his benefit. It states: 
Where persons taking part in an assembly that is in a Territory or is wholly or partly on Commonwealth premises conduct themselves, , in the Territory or on the Commonwealth Premises, in a way that gives rise to a reasonable apprehension  that  the assembly win . . 
It does not say that the persons have done something, lt just says that they will do something. Who can tell me what I will do or say in 5 minutes time? 
It may be. I do not disagree. We are being asked to pass legislation that may be the means by which certain people are fined or imprisoned. T shall read another clause. 
I would be pleased to answer the honourable senator. 
That is altogether different. As much as I like my colleague from Victoria, and I know thai the feeling is mutual, he cannot say that the cases are parallel. If someone intended to break into the golf house at Albert Park and if the police apprehended him, I would be on the side of the police. The honourable senator would know that. He cannot say that the cases are parallel. Clause 8 refers to the dispersal of certain assemblies, lt states:   . . persons taking pan in the assembly have conducted themselves in a way that has caused a member of a Police Force of the rank of Sergeant ... 
Is there any reason to stop there? Does the attainment of the rank of sergeant give a person more knowledge so that he is in a more advantageous position to know what might happen than if he were of a rank under sergeant? 
That may be so, but that assumption does not hold in normal law cases. 
It does not. I am certain that if the Minister were defending a person he would know that that party would have to answer for his conduct whether he was apprehended by a constable, a senior constable or a sergeant. 
Now our friends are coming in, too. The clause continues: 
. or above reasonably to apprehend that the assembly will be carried on in a manner involving unlawful physical violence. ... 
It does not say 'if a person commits a crime'. I do not agree with these people who go mad in buildings and affect the liberty of persons. . The clause is drawn in such a manner that it places a lot of onus on the police. Even  Senator Byrne,  another man of legal attainments of a high order, would not agree- 
I agree.  1  say that to know what this legislation means one has to look at the crystal ball and ask whether a person will do this, do that or will he stop. Therefore the constable should be given the credit that is due to a number of men in the force. We have had a little trouble in Victoria with the police. That is why I said 'a number'. 
Not at all. I would not judge all members of our friend's Party by his interjection. 
I am glad that the honourable senator would not expect me to do so. 1 think the Government will have to give a tremendous amount of consideration - if it wants a new Bill - to answering the case submitted by my colleague from New South Wales,  Senator James  McClelland. With his wonderful legal training, he documented his case into categories' A, B, C and D. Even my young friend at the table, the Minister for Health, who has a very bright future in this game, will have some trouble in answering  Senator James'  McClelland's case. I deal now with clause 9. ft states: 
A person who, in a Territory or on Commonwealth premises, while taking part in an assembly, engages in unreasonable obstruction is guilty of an offence . . . 
Who is to be the judge of what is unreasonable? lt is one of those nice words such as. those in the phrase 'in the vicinity of. I think that words which are inserted into legislation and which could mean gaol sentences for people who believe they have a case - and I hope that they do not go' over the mark - should be able to be interpreted. How can anyone prove what is an ' unreasonable obstruction? 
-r-Clause 4 covers it, I am told. . 
I do not think it does. I will have to take back a lot of the nice words I said about the Minister if he has put me on the wrong track. 
I am referring to an unreasonable obstruction. 
Where? 
I was. 
I am sorry for what I said about the Minister. The definition states: 
Unreasonable obstruction' means an act or thing done by a person that constitutes, or contributes to, an obstruction of, or interference with, the exercise of enjoyment: by. other persons of their lawful rights or privileges (including rights of passage along the public streets) where, having regard to all the circumstances' of the obstruction ' or interference, including its place, lime, duration and nature, it constitutes an unreasonable obstruction or interference, and 'unreasonably obstructs'  has a corresponding meaning. . 
All I want to say, with the greatest respect, is that to me that is as -clear as mud. I thought the Minister would: say that he . would expect that, but he is being kind to me. He has let me off this time. 1 will go a . little further. , 
I know. 1 suppose I had better finish soon. All I am saying is this- 
1 do not want to take it. All I want to say is that this is foolish legislation. It is foolish legislation ' because in the end .it will, cause people to have a ' disrespect for the law. 1 do not want people to have disrespect for law; I believe and have believed for many years that there is only one place in which our laws should be made and that is in the parliaments of this country, whatever political party may be in control of them. I do not want people outside the parliaments, however well meaning -and however good their point of view may be, to think that they make the laws. When laws are made I want them obeyed as the law says they are to be obeyed. I want any alterations to be made in the Parliament. 
I must be going all right today. I say to the Government:- . Do not pass laws that you know the people will break. You know that people will break this law if it is passed. I never marched in the moratorium. It was not because I am opposed to those who did. Honourable senators know my feelings about Vietnam. I think it is an awful thing. But I know that young people are concerned about this matter. If I had a son bordering on 20 years of age there is no doubt I' would have marched if I could have saved him from going to Vietnam. Honourable senators may say that that is a selfish point of view. However, the fact is that the Government is seeking to pass  a  law and that, as in the case of other Acts that it has passed, it will not administer portions of that law.  1  am not opposed to Part HI of the Bill which refers to 'Provisions relating to Diplomatic and Consular Premises and Personnel and International Organisations'.  1  believe these places and persons should be protected. I have my own opinion about diplomatic personnel breaking traffic laws and that sort of thing. I think that common sense ought to prevail. If people in this category drive cars on our highways there is some responsibility placed on them to obey the rules. As far as I. know, the majority of these people do. But I remember a case of one of these consular cars being the cause of a serious accident. According to all reports, the driver was at fault. In the main, Australia believes in the convention that gives protection to these people while they are here, irrespective of who they are, even South Africans. I am a great lover of cricket and I hope that wiser counsels will prevail and that the South African cricket team will not come to Australia. I say that only because the South African Government has been stupid. If that Government had allowed the responsible cricket control people, to include in its team the  2  players that they wanted, who would have thought anything of it? 
The fact is that the South African Government has done so. I am surprised at the honourable senator who, over the years, has backed the Americans in everything. Now he evidently forgets that the South African Government refused admission to a tennis player by the name of  Mr Ashe.  The honourable senator cannot have it both ways. It is true that the South Africans let our Aboriginal girl play tennis in their country. All I say is that I believe the cricket tour will lapse and I regret it because I will not be able to see some of the best cricketers in the world. I think the South African Government ought to have a bit of common sense and let the cricket council pick the cricketers. Then we will pay to go and see them play. 
I have one vote so far as one ground is concerned and my friend also has a vote. He will cancel out my vote. As a member of the standing committee of the great ground I can certainly tell you how my vote will go. I would hate not to see the South Africans play here. I hope the South African Government will act with a bit of common sense and let the cricketing authorities include the  2  fellows that they want in the  team. I- hear they are nowhere near as good as the Pollocks. I hear they are nowhere near as good as the fellow who played in South Australia last year. He was knocked up from making hundreds. 
I say quite candidly that the Government was going to use this Bill for other purposes. It believed its timing was good. I thought that the former Prime Minister would have taken the bit in his teeth, brought that chap down from Townsville and taken a vote. He would have had the numbers and in this game of politics you only have to win by one. If you win by more than one it takes longer to thank them. Fancy  4  or  5  people saying to me in years gone by when I had a bit of say in the Australian Labor Party that they would vote against something. I would have said: 'Brother, you jump the hurdle and we will deal later'. However, all that has gone by the board. 
Why has the Government introduced this Bill? It will not put it into operation. Perhaps I should not say that it will not use the legislation but that it will use it in the main only against small people who cannot kick back. I am not opposed to that portion of the Bill relating to the diplomatic corps but I want to go on to Part IV which deals with general matters. I see now that there has been a reduction in rank and that the Bill now refers not to a sergeant of police but to a constable. 
I was saying,  Senator Young,  that apparently the Government knew that it had run out of officers. This Part refers now to a constable. Clause 22 of the Bill states: 
A constable may, without warrant, arrest a person if the constable has reasonable ground to believe that the person has committed an offeree against this Act. 
So that 1 will not make the mistake I made earlier I had better turn the page and see what the Bill says about 'reasonable ground'. 
I have not seen it. Perhaps my friend the Minister would tell us. I cannot see it. I take it from my swift glance that it is hot included in the Bill. Now, why should the constable have a 'reasonable ground'? He should either have a ground or should leave the person alone.  Senator Rae  may have a totally different idea of what is reasonable from the ohe I have. "Incidentally, I compliment him on the job he is doing with the share brokers. He is going pretty well. 
Yes. What is reasonable? I think the Minister ought to answer at least that question about the Bill. I think he went on to' say that the Government had repealed certain enactments made by Richard II, Henry IV, Henry V, Charles II, George I and George III. When I saw the reference to Richard I thought I was getting confused with footballers. No-one could object to these enactments being repealed. They have been on the statute books for too long and have never been brought into operation. In an attempt to solve their consciences in respect of much that is wrong in the first part of the Bill it is proposed to repeal those old laws. I say with great respect that this Bill will make bad law. It is legislation for which there is no need because there areplenty of Acts of Parliament, both Federal and State, which will achieve what the Government is seeking to do. Now that this measure cannot be used to the Government's benefit in the next election campaign because the suggestion is that the next election will not be as soon as some honourable senators opposite may like it to be, I suggest that the Government would be unwise to proceed with the legislation. I propose to read from the leading article which appeared in the 'Age' on Thursday, 18th March 1971. I have read the 'Age' for a long time. It has always been against conservative governments until a fortnight before an election, at which time it has always, throughout its whole life, found some reason to say that people had still better vote for that government. After abusing the government for years, at election time it comes out in support of the government. The leading article, under the heading 'Breaking silence' states: 
The timing is curious,, to say the least. For some months now, not only the rowdy elements among demonstrators but also the noisy politicians who ride the law-and-order bandwagon have been mercifully quiet. 
God forbid that I should ever try to apply that description to any honourable senator. The article continues: 
The debate about Australia's role in Vietnam centres mainly around how to .end it and consequently some of. the heat is going out of the conscription issue. Apart from that, politicians were quick to note that the New South Wales Government-- 
That is the Askin Government - burned its fingers with the law-and-order issue in a by-election last year. But on Tuesday the Federal Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  broke the silence to introduce new Commonwealth public order .legislation. . .t 
I heard last night that he was no longer the Attorney-General. He was one of those short-term men. The article continues: 
The measures he outlined provide rebels with a cause. And not only rebels. There is reason for anyone concerned about the preservation of the right to dissent to be apprehensive about some of the provisions. Also, extremists whose tactics are to court repression could find some aspects of the legislation are well suited -to'- their purpose. Particularly dangerous is the provision under which a police sergeant may decide if ari assembly could involve physical violence' or property damage. Those demonstrators who do not share the sergeant's opinion or powers of prediction and who do not disperse within IS minutes face a fine of $500 or 6 months' gaol or both. 
If there are loopholes in the law regarding Commonwealth-occupied premises in the States and diplomats and their - premises then it is reasonable to plug them. But  Mr Hughes  was on shaky ground when he justified some of the provisions with the explanation that they represented 'a substantial mitigation of existing statutory penalties'. The provision which in effect enables a police sergeant to declare an assembly unlawful replaces one which in some instances attracted a penalty' of 21 years' gaol,  Mr Hughes  points out. But there is a world of difference between an absurdly excessive provision lying  unused and a brand new (and questionable) one which clearly has .the blessing of the Government. Certainly the. community must be protected from harm and undue inconvenience in demonstrations, but in the long term it ls the community which will be harmed if dissent is unduly suppressed. 
I am not one of those who pin their faith or beliefs in newspaper articles by leader or sub-leader writers, but I accept that what they state is usually a reasonable assumption. I hope that wiser counsels will prevail in respect of this legislation and that the Government will forget it. 1 suggest that it should put into operation the legislation which is already on the statute book. I believe that more will be achieved by. doing that than by continuing with this legislation, the effect of- which is likely to put into gaol a number of people whose only crime might be that they, were demonstrating against repressive legislation. 
I would  like to know what has been .done following what one might call the flash flood that unfortunately resulted in the death of 7 people. Of course, it is one of those things that happens. Investigations have been conducted as to its cause, and in his findings the coroner gave the number of cubic feet of water that passed over this particular section of roadway. He also said something significant which was important to me, and that was that the engineers were going to see whether something could be done to prevent such an unfortunate happening occurring again. 
One of the conclusions in the report of the National Capital Development Commission on the flood in the Woden Valley of Canberra on 26th January 1971 stated that the storm on 26th January was exceptional and extreme. I think all honourable senators will agree with that statement. The conclusion also stated: 
It was sudden in onset and produced torrential rain which within less than 30 minutes caused serious flooding. The emergency developed and abated in a period of a little over an hour. 
That statement shows that a great volume of the water got away in a very short time. I was fortunate to be able to inspect the area of the flood on the morning after the flood. I can understand how it happened. I noticed debris coming down one of the creeks. I can readily understand that the flow of water would have been impeded by this debris. Although I believe that Canberra is a beautiful city, I am always concerned about the number of trees it has. The falling of leaves, particularly at this time of the year, plays havoc with the drains. I believe that the Department of the Interior, whose job it is to look after the city, is fortunate in that it does -not have more floodings than the unfortunate one we are discussing. I have some knowledge of deciduous trees. I know how they cause extreme flooding on certain level country. 
I believe that every effort should be put into making the whole of Canberra safe from floods. The loss of 7 lives is to my a shocking thing. 1 .was informed that some of the unfortunate people killed were in a car that stalled on the bridge and that the lady driver of the car went for assistance to a garage not far away only to find when she returned that her children and the car had been swept away. Something has to be done to prevent a similar -occurrence. According to a report I read it could happen again. I admit that this area does not flood very frequently. I understand that reference was made in the evidence to a recurrence of floods after 3 years, 10 years and 100 years. I do not know who would be able to- give any evidence as to what happened 100 years ago. I should imagine that this would have been pretty wild country 100 years ago. When the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for the Interior, is replying to my "remarks he may be able to tell me what is actually being done at the moment to prevent a recurrence of this unfortunate incident. It is no good in things of this nature to have wishful thinking and to say that it will not happen again because it may happen again, especially with a creek of this nature. 
As 1 said earlier, I inspected the area a day or so after this unfortunate happening and I thought . that a fair" amount of engineering work will have to be done there on the construction of a very large drain which will enable the debris that I saw blocked up to be washed away. If my memory serves me correctly, a straight channel will have to be cut so that the water will get away. I do not think that the normal volume of water that runs down the creek is that great, but I think that a drain of pretty large dimensions will have to be constructed there. This city is fortunate in that it does not lack money for public works. I think we should be proud of our national capital, but I do not think it would spoil the layout of Canberra if a large barrel drain or a wide open concrete drain were to be constructed in this area. I do not think that it would cause the civil engineers of the Department of the Interior" or the National Capital Development Commission much trouble to eliminate some of the bends in this area and make a straight flow. I am not blaming anyone for this natural disaster. I do not think that the blame should be- pinned on anyone at all if a tragedy occurs when nature acts in this way. The best that can be done is to look after the people who were unfortunate enough to suffer great losses in this incident and to make certain that the tragedy does not occur - again. Another of the conclusions in the report states: 
Apart from the overtopping of the main Yarralumla Creek and sections of the Long Gully Creek formed channels there were several overland flows in the Woden Valley which caused considerable damage to private and public property. 
While I do not like seeing damage done to private or public property, I am more concerned about people losing their lives, particularly children. Damaged property can always be repaired. Unfortunately nothing can be done about a lost life; it cannot be restored. The report also states that the response of the police and other emergency services was satisfactory. That is, of course, always the case when a tragedy occurs. The report also states: 
The presence of warning signs or depth indicators or better lighting might have helped to avoid or reduce the loss of life at the intersection but whether this would have actually been the case in the circumstances- of this particular storm is doubtful. However warning signs and depth indicators have been installed and the lighting is to be improved. 
I am not putting myself forward as an engineer, but when I had a look at that creek and saw the bends in it I was amazed to think that, in a city like Canberra which has the money to spend, this was not done before. As I have pointed out, the creek has a lot of bends in it. If a straight concrete channel of considerable width is constructed it will . stop the debris from being blocked under the bridge by the stanchions of the bridge. If the debris bad not blocked up under the bridge this unfortunate incident may not have happened. The report continues: 
The warning system and the emergency procedures applicable in these kinds of circumstances have been closely examined. Some improvements have been made and others are in hand. No changes have been revealed or suggested however which would have ensured adequate warning of such serious and sudden flooding as occurred on 26 January. 
I believe that. I do not think that the warning system or the emergency procedures applicable in this instance would have done much good with the number of inches of rain which fell in such a short time. The report continues: 
A review is being made of all other sections of roadway in the City of Canberra which may be subject to periodic serious flooding in order to determine those sections where like or alternative action should be taken. . . 
That means, as I believe it should mean, that in this city . there should be certain catchment areas' before the water enters underground pipes. I have had a little practical experience of such matters. I have no technical knowledge. Underground pipes have to be examined, particularly when the leaves' on deciduous trees fall, as they are falling now in this city. It surprises me that these . drop drains are not looked at at least once or. twice a week. They have to be cleaned out so that the water may get away. 
I am- speaking only of the practical' experience that I have had in an area, in a city where we have very low lying ground- very flat ground. Electric pumps have had to be - installed along certain sections of the main thoroughfare - Audley Street - in order that, when the water gets to a certain height in the sump, as I would call it for the sake of a better word, the electric pumps start to work and pump the water into a lake. I have noticed, as I am sure all honourable senators have noticed when walking to the Senate here in Canberra that the trees are becoming bare of leaves. The leaves are on the ground. In a decent storm they have to go somewhere. It is true that in this city some are swept up. I was very interested in the large vacuum cleaning machines that are used. I immediately bought 2 for the area in which I am interested. These machines suck up the leaves so that they will not cause damage. I understand, from inquiries that 1 have made, that here the leaves are used for fertilising the gardens. The leaves are very excellent fertiliser. 1 suppose some go into the very lovely rose gardens that we see. 
I believe that every effort to ensure that this tragedy does not happen again should be made. I feel sure that those efforts will be made. Therefore, I do not want to take up any more time of the Senate.  would be very grateful if the Minister would inform the Senate exactly what has been done to date. I repeat that I have no engineering experience. I have had a lot of practical experience. It worries me considerable to think that a tragedy like this - with loss of lives - could happen in this city. I leave it at that. I hope to hear from the Minister as to what has actually been done to date. - 
by leave  -  I am most grateful that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  has made that statement. He has been very kind to me over a long period of years. I would be very hurt if I left this place with any ill feelings to anyone, particularly to him. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) - by leave - Working very well as a team, we have now looked at every Order of the Day on the business paper. Yesterday when I suggested the times of sitting I said that we would sit tonight until 11 p.m. We have now finished our work programme for today. I did not envisage that we would deal with these items as quickly as we have done. Unless the Senate wishes to continue, I move: 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I desire to ask the Minister for Health a question. No doubt he has read the statement by the Minister for Health in Victoria,  Mr 
Rossiter, in which he advises of a large increase in hospital charges in public wards, intermediate wards and private rooms. Can the Minister give the Senate an idea of what increased contributions to hospital benefits funds the people of Australia will have to pay? I ask that question because, unless the benefits are brought into line with the increased hospital charges, it will mean as I remarked last week that it will be almost cheaper to die than to enter hospital. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Health, by reminding him that yesterday I asked him a. question about increased hospital charges. Having learned very quickly, his answer was that the matter was one for the State. While I agree that, in the main, it is, I ask him now whether he will make representations to his colleague the Treasurer to look at the whole area of hospital finances in Victoria with an idea of helping the hospitals, whether they be public, intermediate or private bed hospitals, out of the tremendous difficulties in which they find themselves. 
1 regret that a little heat has been engendered into this debate. 
I think you and I will get on a little better if you do not interject. I think that  Senator Wheeldon  is able to look after himself and I cannot see how- 
I say again that  Senator Wheeldon  is able to look after himself, but for  Senator Sim  to say that in his speech  Senator Wheeldon  did everything but condemn the actions in the office of  Senator McManus  is not, I think, in accordance with the facts. 
Yes you did. You said that that was not in his speech on the second reading of this Bill. But be that as it may, we are discussing the clause that I mentioned when I spoke during the second reading debate on this Bill. Surely to goodness, we are entitled to oppose the wording in this clause and to entice other people to oppose it. 
As I said right from the beginning, there are ample laws in this country to cover everything that this Bill proposes to cover. As everyone knows, it was brought in by the Government because it thought there would be an old style law and order election as there was in the days when  Senator McManus  and 1 stood together against it. In days gone by neither of us liked the thought of law and order. God forbid. We are both descended from people who hated the thought of it. They were sick of law and order. My father, God bless him, was told by his father that he would never have come to this country had it not been for the law and order in his own country which, of course was forced on him. One could say that the words alone are repugnant. Then we see in the clause the words gives rise to a reasonable apprehension'. Who can define that? Who will define that? The Minister will not be on the bench when some constable or sergeant, who thinks he is carrying out the law, has to get up in court and say: 'I believe that this person' - be it  Senator Gair  or myself - acted in a way that gave rise to a reasonable apprehension that the assembly would be carried on in a manner involving unlawful physical violence'. 
Well, of course- 
Me? No, I am not, but there are ample laws in the country already. We are cluttering up the statute book. I do not like those words law and order'. They are repugnant. 
And it is a good ancestry, the same as that of  Senator McManus.  He sticks to it and so do I. But why clutter up the statute book of this nation? When we are discussing this clause we have to ask ourselves why it was brought in. That question has been asked before. It is valid and can be repeated. When  Mr Askin  lost an election on law and order in New South Wales there was no Federal election. The Government ran away from it. 

 - His majority suffered very severely. It was a by-election in New South Wales. I think I remember saying in my speech on the second reading that the Government has had more than one go on this aspect of law and order in years gone by. I did not like it. This Bill is nothing but window dressing in order that the Government can say: 'We want law and order. The Labor Party does not want it and therefore it is not fit to govern this country.' As the Government missed the bus in regard to this Bill in that an election was not held, I ask: Why clutter up the statute book? I ask Government supporters to satisfy my inquisitiveness. Are there not sufficient laws already in this country to do everything it says it wants to do with this Bill? 
As I said before, I have nothing in common with those people with long hair that sit down in Bourke Street. 1 am quite honest; I have nothing at all in common with them. I hope they do not impede, me - I would not be too pleased if they did. If they come into my office as they did into the office of  Senator McManus  I hope there is a side door because I believe in the right kind of valour: Do not get hurt. When all is said and done, this is the national Parliament of a great and wonderful nation. All that the honourable senators on the Government side are doing is to play little politics. If they were playing big politics I would enjoy it. But this Bill represents little politics which is unworthy of any government, irrespective of what name it bears, lt is seeking to clutter up the statute book with an Act for which there is no need. We will be able to protect the people. 
I do not know what Vince is saying  Mr Temporary Chairman,  but I hope it is all right. I appeal to those 4 or 5 honourable senators in the corner. I well remember the day when 3 out of the 5 would have said: 'Fancy supporting this sort of legislation.' Therefore one wonders today- 

 - Mr Temporary Chairman, I do not want to interrupt. I have never wanted to interrupt a  speaker.  If my friends in the corner want to keep going, I will keep quiet. 
Therefore I ask my colleagues of yesteryear to read this clause. That is all 1 want them to do. I want them to think for one moment and ask themselves why, in 1971, they would vote for this clause. Irrespective of what little differences may have occurred in the meantime one wonders how far they can go. I ask the Committee to give this Bill the thought that it deserves and treat it in the way that it deserves by saying to the Government: 'You have all the laws on your side. Put them into operation and let the courts decide who has broken the laws of this country'. 
During the latter part of the debate my name has been taken in vain quite often. I thought it would be just as well for me to answer those remarks and to put the record straight. I am quite a humble person who wants to live in peace and quietness. I have no intention of recounting the affairs of 19SS because 6 months before they happened I told the people involved that if they did not attempt to run the party as a Labor Party it would split up the middle. It did split up the middle. Prior to that I supported the Curtin-Chifley administration, as did those honourable senators who are now sitting in the corner - the members of the Democratic Labor Party. We protected this country when others ran away. I know about the coal strike of 1949. I know as much about it as does anyone in this country. I was one of the 4 who had more say about it than anyone else. It has been said that then we did things about which we are complaining today, but we governed this country in the interests of the people. A Labor Party government will always do that. People will fall by the wayside. I could trace the history of the Labor Party if you would be kind enough to permit me,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  but I will not play on your friendship. 
You know me,  Mr Temporary  Chairman; I would not play on a friendship. The honourable senator who wanted to say what the Labor Party did or did not do was a very new member of this Party. If  Senator McManus  had wanted to say something about that, with his 25 or 30 years in this Party, I would have bowed to him with great respect. I will not bow to one whose years in this Party were very few. Today it suits him not to oppose fresh legislation because today everything that he ever stood for previously is wrong. Why is it wrong? He knows better than anyone else that he and his ilk would not be here except for the grace of the Government. It is all right for  Senator Little  to say that he won in his own right, but there were reasons why he won in his own right. 
The Minister for Works mumbles away and bumbles around. If he wants to interject he should make an audible interjection so that honourable senators understand what he is saying. 
How long was the honourable senator in it? 
If the honourable senator did not agree with what the 
Australian Labor Party did why did he not have the courage to get out of it? 
 The honourable senator did not have the courage to get out of it. 
The honourable senator should not try to tell me that he did not know who was controlling the Party in  1955. 
What! 
No, I was not. I resigned in  1950  because I could see what was coming. I was secretary of the Party at the time, but  1  said: 'No, they are not going to dictate to me how I should run it when the orders are not coming from upstairs'. 
The honourable senator knows the history of the matter. As I was saying earlier, this legislation is not needed. Most speakers have referred to what happened m  Senator '  McManus' offices. Those honourable senators who have referred to - this incident have deplored the fact that it happened. However, the law took its course. It is not for me to say whether the courts were sufficiently severe in the administration of justice. I agree with  Senator James  McClelland that a red herring has been drawn across the track because the law has not been administered. All the Opposition is saying is that there is sufficient legislation on the statute book for the law to be properly administered. Why is the Government seeking at this late hour in the sitting to put this extra legislation on the statute book? I believe that the Government knows full well that this legislation will be administered only in extreme cases. In fact, the Government is not administering the laws which are already in the statute book. It administers some of these laws but not all of them. . . 
My erstwhile legal luminary up the back of the chamber said that he was going to say what  Dr J.  F. Cairns said. When did  Dr J.  F. Cairns become that much of a legal luminary that I have to bow to what he says? I may agree with what he says, but I may not agree. The fact is the Government administers the present laws against some people but it lets others go free. The Government is unable to satisfy the people of this nation that it is administering the laws of the country without fear or favour and that it is not leaving some out because it thinks that they may kick up a row. As I pointed out in my speech on the motion for the second reading of the Bill, the law took its course against women who were unlawfully in Commonwealth offices - I did not agree with what they were doing - but it did not take its course against others who did the same thing. All the Government in fact did was give these others a cup of tea. How can one have respect for the law when that happens? 
The honourable senator knows it happened. 
All  1  am saying is that this legislation is unnecessary. The Government is only trying to play politics in the worst possible way. The Government is playing on the beliefs of the people of this country that the national Parliament will not pass legislation unless it is needed. Reference has been made to the fact that there is similar legislation in Victoria. Surely it provides everything this Bill seeks to provide. The Minister shakes his head. Surely the legislation that was passed recently in New South Wales will meet any situation which may arise. I may be wrong. 
Why is the Government trying to fool the people? It is not now going to have an election soon. 
The Government missed the boat in that regard. The Government should contest any election which it holds on the question of basic priciples and not on law and order. I admit that it is necessary to have law and order, but the Government should not spend all of its time trying to ram this fact down the necks of the people. Whatever a Labor government did in the past it did in the interests of the nation. This practice should be followed by the present Government. I would not expect a Labor administration to pass unnecessary legislation in an attempt to fool the people. No more credence will be given to what the Government says and the Government will not get any more respect from the people of this country merely because it has placed this legislation on the statute book. The people of this country will merely say: 'You have put some people in gaol because they burned their draft cards and you have put other people in gaol because they have not wanted to go to Vietnam, but how many have you not taken action against?' 
Question put: 
That clause 6(1.) stand as printed 
I ask the Minis ter for Works: ls his Department; planning sections 3,  4  and5  of  the Commonwealth Centre in Melbourne?  If  so, will he ensure that underground parking will be provided in the new buildings, as unfortunately it was not providedin sections 1 and 2 although the City  of  Melbourne building regulations make it compulsory for private builders to provide a certain amount of parking space? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. Why is it necessary for the Department of Immigration to bring migrants to this country by ship at  a  dearer rate than that for which they can be brought here by air - naturally using Qantas Airways Ltd? My reason for asking this question is that one reads of the large number of air pilots who seemingly have received notice from Qantas, no doubt because there is no work. It puzzles me why the nation pays more per head, I understand, for sea travel for migrants than it would if they were brought to this country by air. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question. Has he, as a member of Cabinet, read, or does he know of, the proposed statement to be made by the Minister for Trade and Industry, who is the  Deputy  Prime Minister, on exports now to be permitted to be sent to mainland China or, as my friends in the corner delight in telling us, Communist China? The statement appears in this morning's Melbourne 'Age'. Is it a fact, as stated, that such statement, either leaked, which is the common method used to test public opinion or handed out to the Press, will free such exports as iron, steel, chemicals, etc.? Does he agree with me that such exports are the main component parts for arms and munitions which China has been and will now no doubt continue to send to the North Vietnamese forces to wound or kill Australians who are forced to fight in Vietnam? How do the Government and its supporters in the corner reconcile their conscience to their oft repeated statements that Australia should not be a party to exporting to China materials to be used in the manufacture of arms and ammunitions which are used, I repeat, to kill Australians in the undeclared war in Vietnam? Does the Minister still expect the Government to get the blind support of the Australian Democratic Labor Party irrespective of the decision to supply such exports to China? If so, will he tell me what hold the Government has on those who strongly oppose, by their voices, such exports to China, but yet blindly, by their votes, support the action of the Government in sending to China iron, steel and chemicals for the manufacture of arms and munitions with which to kill or maim Australian soldiers? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONFirstly, the honourable senator invites me to comment on things which have happened in Cabinet. As a parliamentarian probably of longer standing than many of us, he will recognise that it is completely impossible for me to respond to that question. Secondly, he asked me to reflect upon a statement made by  Mr Anthony.  I have not as yet come to grips with any Press statement made by  Mr Anthony.  Then he referred to the statement which, as I have said, I have not yet read in detail, and drew certain conclusions from it. It would be very difficult for me to comment on those matters until 1 go away and thoroughly read the statement. 
Turning to the subject matter of the question, there is a list of strategic materials which nations do not supply to mainland China. Having said that, 1 will have to let the matter rest until such time as I have had a thorough examination of the statement made by  Mr Anthony. 
Has the Leader of the Government any knowledge of the submission made by the Australian brewing giants to his colleague, the Minister for Customs and Excise, pressing for stricter enforcement of the present laws concerning excise on home made beer? Does he believe that the brewers whose profits from their $400m a year poison industry, to say the least, are huge, are prompted by that most noble, altruistic motive because the Commonwealth is losing $20m a year in excise duties, or are the brewers, as is most likely, prompted by the insatiable desire of all monopolies for more and more profits? 
I am not aware of the current position but, having been Minister for Customs and Excise myself for 34 years, I feel bound to say that beer and other forms of alcohol serve a dual purpose. Not only do they give great enjoyment to people in all walks of life but also they provide a great amount of revenue for governments in terms of excise. Let us face it; governments get their revenue in a variety of ways. If they cease to get revenue in the field of excise, obviously to fulfil their function and to do all the things that governments have to do, they have to get it somewhere else. I know that the Department of Customs and Excise constantly has to be vigilant in certain areas where home brews are outside the provisions of the laws of which we all are the authors. Inevitably it has to be so. If it were not so we would have open season. There would bc great loss of revenue and somebody would be drinking brews which were not amenable to their digestions. A greater contribution might be made by the doctors. 
I preface my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate by saying that I have listened to his replies to various senators on tha subject of local government finance. While possibly they are true to a large extent, I ask him this question: Would the financial position of local government authorities not be alleviated if the Commonwealth Government handed back to the States for roads all the excise duty on petrol and diesel fuel? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI suppose it would be if the Commonwealth Government handed this excise duty to them. 1 suppose a similar situation would apply if the Government handed to them collections under some other head of taxation.  Senator Kennelly  is making a personal judgment that the way to do it would be to take some head of Commonwealth revenue in its entirety and hand it to the local government authority. It all comes back to the basic answer all the time. It does not happen in that way. The Commonwealth Government deals through the States. In any event, once we start excising certain excise, as it were, and giving it to a State authority we will then have to think in terms of where we can get the replacement for Commonwealth revenue. It is a basic problem. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Health by saying that I was intrigued by his answer to a question from  Senator Hannan  in which he said that a statement by the Leader of the Opposition in another place was false. I ask: Would I be false in my belief that the question asked by  Senator Hannan  was a Dorothy Dixer? 
The purpose of the Bill in the first instance is to allow the Commonwealth to borrow $US29.58m, which I. understand is equivalent to $A26.4m, . together with $US30m, which is equivalent to $A26.8m. The first amount that I mentioned is to be borrowed from the Export-Import Bank and the amount of $US30m will be borrowed from a number of banks in the United States, including the Chase Manhattan Bank of New York] The purpose of borrowing this money, is. to help Qantas Airways Ltd to finance the purchase of 4, Boeing 747 jet aircraft, together with related equipment. These borrowings are by no means the first approved for the' purchase of aircraft, whether they be for Qantas or for Trans-Australia Airlines. I believe that in the early days of the air industry in this country Australian National Airlines, now Ansett Airlines of Australia, had money loaned to it for the purpose of getting the fleet started. Of course, in later years Ansett, through various means, has been able to find its own finance. The whole of the loan will be made available to Qantas for the purpose I have stated and on such terms and conditions as the Treasurer of the Commonwealth states. Naturally all the costs of the transaction will be charged against Qantas. The interest charged, according to the Bill, will be not more than 7 per cent. In the unfortunate circumstances of today, one cannot say that that rate of interest is excessive, because if I remember correctly, for some loans, and particularly semigovernment loans, the interest rate is about 7.25 per cent. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has informed the Senate that the 
Australian Loan Council has approved the borrowing of this money. It may be of interest to note that in the 11 years prior to 1968 the Commonwealth has been the borrower of approximately $US289m from the various banks in the United States in order that aircraft could be bought by Qantas. I see nothing wrong with the Bill. In the past - as I have said before, as far back as the 11 years prior to 1968 - we have supported the borrowing of money by Qantas. In other words- we have acted as guarantors for Qantas in the purchase of aircraft. Qantas accepts full responsibility for the loans. This Bill gives us an opportunity to discuss certain matters currently relating to Qantas. One  cannot  help but be surprised by the administration of Qantas. Suddenly, within a few- months of advertising for pilots and engineers, Qantas gave notice to certain of its personnel. 
The honourable senator mentions an overall figure of 155. I have been fortunate enough to obtain from the Parliamentary Library copies of articles dealing with the position of Qantas that were published on 23rd April in the Australian Financial Review'. It is true that there has been a decrease in business in the aviation industry, not only in the international sphere but also in the domestic sphere. Honourable senators will have noticed that the services to Canberra provided by both internal airlines have been reduced. The aviation industry has enjoyed a rather unique position in that its business has increased from year to year. The increase in passenger traffic carried by the domestic airlines has been remarkable, and Qantas has enjoyed a similar position. Australia must be proud of Qantas. It flies our flag with distinction in countries across the world. However, it is experiencing a downward trend in that the rate of growth of business has not been maintained. In addition, Qantas has advanced the argument popular amongst employers that it has been adversely affected by the 6 per cent increase granted by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the last national wage case, some months ago. That increase was granted to Australian wage earners. Although air pilots are few in number, they are tremendously powerful industrially and are able almost to hold the airlines to ransom. 
Throughout a long life I have never minded people trying to sell their labour on the best market. As Qantas pilots have only their labour to sell, their industrial attitude is understandable. However, I have read in today's Press that the captains of jumbo jets are expected to earn at least $25,000 a year and could with extra duty earn more than $30,000 a year. I cannot help but wonder who is to carry the weight of those salaries. I believe that any man is worthy of his hire, but when the cost of his hire becomes astronomical I cannot but wonder where it will stop. 
Qantas inserted in its own publications advertisements for air crew positions. I understand that it even wrote to people employed by other airlines and attempted to entice engineers and pilots into its employ. Then, for some remarkable reason that seems to indicate an extreme lack of good planning, Qantas , gave notice, according to the 'Australian Financial Review', to about 74 pilots. I hope that that figure is correct. A number of engineers were also given notice. One of the reasons given by Qantas for its action was the decision of the Government to reduce by about 30,000 the number of migrants being flown to Australia by Qantas. Captain Ritchie, who is spokesman for Qantas, said that a certain number of pilots would therefore have to go. I can understand that any industry must find gainful employment for its staff, but surely there is a need for forward planning. International aviation is not a small industry. Qantas has not made a loss in recent years. Even after paying 7 per cent interest to the nation last year it made a profit of about $5m. Qantas is in business to make a profit. If it does not make a profit, the loss it sustains must be found somewhere. I repeat that Qantas advertised for personnel to help to run its business, and within a few months it gave notice to some of its employees. To my mind that is not good planning. 
I appreciate that the growth rate of the aviation industry has not come up to expectations. In recent years both the international and domestic airlines have shown a remarkable increase in passenger traffic. Certain steps were taken to combat the effects of inflation. If great care is not  taken there could be a repetition of the bad times of the 1930s. Perhaps the position will not be as bad, but it could happen along the same lines. An industry cannot be run successfully without forward planning. It seems to me that in view of the situation that arose in Qantas somebody in a high position of trust was a very bad judge. I make that statement on the basis of the action taken by Qantas in giving notice to pilots and engineers within a few months of advertising vacancies in those positions. The air pilots award provides that 6 months notice of dismissal is necessary; 74 of them were given notice. 
The Government has something to answer for regarding the downturn in the number of migrants carried by Qantas. I am informed that it is cheaper for newcomers to be brought to Australia by air than by sea. Considering the position in which Qantas finds itself and the fact that it is to carry 30,000 fewer passengers to this country because of reduced immigration, one would have thought that the Government would have ensured that newcomers to Australia would have travelled by air because, firstly, as I said I am informed, it is cheaper and, secondly, Qantas would not have been placed in a position in which it was not operating the number of flights which it could operate. 
I see no reason why the civil aviation industry should not be looked after. I am quite certain that if Qantas had anything to do with the wool industry, the wheat industry, the pig industry or any other primary industry outside the metropolitan area, my friends in the Country Party corner would have yelled so much that the Government immediately would have rushed to Qantas' aid and said: 'Everyone who wants to come to Australia as a migrant or a new settler has to come by Qantas.' But, of course, Qantas is not represented by the 6, 7 or 8 members of the Country Party who sit in the corner of the chamber, and therefore it takes a little time for the position regarding Qantas to sink in. I believe that the Commonwealth Government has an obligation to act as the guarantor of the loan to be made available to Qantas. The Government has done this for many years, and of course there has been no thought of the Government's losing money because Qantas has not been able to meet its commitments to the Gov ernment as the guarantor of the loan. But the Government also has an obligation to assist in obtaining business for Qantas If the price is right. I think that that ought to be done by the Government. 
I know that over the years the Government has always been friendly with international shippers. Could I ask it not to be so friendly in this instance? The Government has a national shipping line which it allowed to join a conference line. It did so for one reason: So that the farmers and others could get cheap freight rates. But, of course, when the Australian National Line joined the conference line that line laid down the freight rates, and our shipping line is more or less a joke as far as helping people who send goods away from this country is concerned. 
There is one thing in the First Schedule to the Bill which is of great interest to me. Qantas is to buy planes and the price which it is to pay is set out. It is also set out that the Commonwealth guarantees the money, and one could not have better security. But Qantas cannot fly its planes where it wants to. Paragraph (d) in section 8 of the First Schedule states: 
No aircraft or related equipment the purchase of which is financed, in whole or in part by Eximbank under this Agreement (i) is principally for use in a Communist country (as defined in Section 620(f) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended) or (ii) is to be used principally in any nation (a) which engages in armed conflict, declared or otherwise - 
We are used to taking part in armed conflicts that have not been declared. How do we get on if Qantas wants to fly to Vietnam? Have the Americans declared war in Vietnam? I know that we have not done so. It continues: with armed forces of the United States or (b) which furnishes by direct governmental action (not including chartering, licensing or sales by non-wholly owned business enterprises) goods, supplies, military assistance, or advisers to any nation described in Clause (a) above. 
To say the least, that seems to be a remarkable condition. I do not blame Boeing or the Americans for including it in the agreement. I suppose that they have things in their planes which they want to hide and which they do not want copied. But what does the designation 'Communist country' mean? One can say that Russia and China are Communist countries, although 1 understand that they have different sorts or brands of Communism. 
Yes. We signed an agreement to bring people from Yugoslavia to Australia. We give them a better go than we give to people from Malta who are British subjects. J remember some time ago drawing the Government's attention to the case of the young lad who comes from Yugoslavia to Australia having served 6 months in the Army of Yugoslavia. First of all, he can leave Australia if he gets a call-up notice for national service when he is 20 years of age. He docs not have to serve. But if he wants to serve, the 6 months which he has served in the Army of Yugoslavia is deducted from the 2 years which he is required to serve in the Australian Army. I take it that these planes of Qantas will not be able to fly to Yugoslavia - if it is called a Communist country. But the most remarkable thing is - and I have never blamed the United States for protecting itself - that the United States, on behalf of Boeing, has said: 'There may be some mechanism in these planes which we believe other countries have not got and which we want to see they do not get.' That is a fact of life in the world in which we live today. But, of course, that is a remarkably different approach from the one which we adopt. Australia has merino wool, South Africa may have some merino wool and New Zealand has some merino wool. They are the 3 principal merino wool producing countries. But, of course, we do not do what the Americans do. They at least protect their planes. But we are very magnanimous. We believe that the easiest way to help Australian wool farmers is to sell- 
It may be to  Senator Little,  considering his record in the past. According to the Government we should use every effort to get our rams away so that we will have another competitor in another part of the world. I am drawing an analogy- 
That will do. I am drawing an analogy between what we do to an industry such as the wool industry - a very important industry - and what we do under this Bill. Under the clause that I have read we agree to lend money to Qantas to buy aircraft. 
That is worse. The merino rams do. It seems to me that we have agreed to the aircraft being purchased under certain conditions, and what I have read is one of those conditions. I hope that when the Minister replies to the second reading debate he will tell us the countries to which these aircraft are not permitted to go. World events are changing. We may or may not be recognising certain countries in the near future because world affairs are rapidly changing the views of a number of people and a number of countries. Let us hope that that will lead to more friendship between nations. I think the date of delivery of the last aircraft to this country is 1974. I do not think that any honourable senator is prepared at this time to say whether wc will have recognised China by 1974. If, under the clause that I have read, the Americans consider China to be a Communist country and one to which these aircraft should not fly, they can say to Qantas: 'Here is the bargain. Using these aircraft, you cannot fly from any part of Australia to China'. No doubt Qantas recognised that restriction and agreed to it. Qantas would not have bought the aircraft otherwise. 
I hope that Qantas used a little more foresight in agreeing to the terms of purchase than it did when dealing with its internal affairs. Its handling of its recent internal dispute does not give me much faith in its supposed extraordinary capabilities. I was told by some of the flight engineers who were here a week or so ago that Qantas was attempting to get people to leave one international airline or even our internal airlines to join Qantas. Letters were produced to show that Qantas was enticing people to join its organisation. In a very short time - a matter of months - the axe has fallen. While the Opposition does not oppose the Bill, I would like the Minister for Civil Aviation in his reply- 
With no disrespect to the Minister for Supply, I hope that the Minister for Civil Aviation will take part in the debate because he might have more intimate knowledge of affairs covering the last month or so. I' read that the Minister for Civil Aviation was taking part in discussions between the Department of Civil Aviation and Qantas. I know that one night the engineers had an appointment with him. This is our only international airline and we should know exactly the present position. I hope that the Bill succeeds. I hope that Qantas does not get as rickety in such a short time in the future. 1 hope that it continues to carry our flag to the 4 comers of the world. 
I was intrigued by the answer given by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  to the question I raised in relation to subsection (d) of section 8. If I understood and heard him correctly, he stated that this agreement is good only during the time of the loan. 
Yes. I ask my good friend to read it again. That subsection reads: 
No aircraft or related equipment the purchase of which is financed, in whole or in part by Eximbank under this Agreement . . . 
It does not state that it is during the time the money is owing. 
I do not know that it does. 
J am talking to the butcher, not the block. The honourable senator has a bad habit of interjecting. If he wants to talk he should get up and talk. All I say, as I understand it- 
If in the last fortnight I wanted to speak all night it would have nothing to do with the honourable senator. If he wants to enter the debate I do not mind that either. 
If he stayed in the chamber a little longer he might not be so cranky. Sub-section (d) of section 8 states: 
No aircraft or related equipment the purchase of which is financed . . . 
I cannot understand how the Leader of the Government reads into that that this subsection does not have effect after a certain time. He suggests that it affects the position only when the loan is owed. I cannot see how he reads that into it or, with great respect, how his advisers can read that into it If it is taken in the way which is suggested here, at any time any aircraft which is purchased by the method that these aircraft are being purchased must be used in accordance with sub-section (d) of section 8. It amazes me that the Leader of the Government should say that it operates only until we pay off the loan. It does not say that. Therefore, I still want to know from the Minister how he ascertains that the words 'or related equipment the purchase of which is financed' suggest a time limit. The sub-section does not impose a time limit on any purchase at all, whether it is during the currency of the loan or until the money is paid back. It says: 'or related equipment the purchase of which is financed'. It does not say: 'After the financing is finished and we have paid the money over you can do what you like with the planes.' 

 - Mr President, I have been given a very pleasing duty. My duty is, on behalf of  Senator Toohey, Senator Ridley,  my colleague of many years in Victoria  Senator Hendrickson  and  Senator Lacey,  to join in thanking honourable senators for their very kind words. I was sitting here listening to those words and I wondered whether, if they thought so much of me, I had better withdraw my intention of retiring. I did not know what to do. I thought: 'If they like me so much, why should I go?' But knowing the position as it stands, that is out. Speaking for myself at the moment, I feel that it is about time that I did get out. There comes a time in a person's life when he has had enough. Today my health is immeasurably better than it was 2 or 3 years ago. Even so. at my age, I believe that it is time to say: 'Enough. If there is anything you have left undone, try to get it done by somebody else.' 
I thank you,  Mr President,  for your very great kindness not only to me but also to those who have given me the honour to speak for them. You have always been kind. You were tremendously kind to me when I first became a senator. I think that before I first spoke in this chamber I went to you and asked you, for certain reasons, whether I could address you as  Mr Chairman.  There was a personal reason involved. At that time certain words were fairly hard to say. You readily agreed. I thank the officers in the chamber. Like you,  Mr President,  I want to thank those outside the chamber. I have had very many happy minutes with them. Some of them are barbarians as far as sport is concerned. They do not know what the proper winter sport is, and one has to be sorry for them. Apart from that, I have been tolerant of them. They have been most kind to me. 
We hope that the time is not far distant when we on this side and our successors will be on the other side. I have always thought that in politics there is only one place to be, and that is on the right of the chair. One is wasting a lot of time and saying a lot of words that no-one reads if one is on this side of the chamber. As you,  Mr President,  said in your few words in which you thanked honourable senators, it is true that there are no better speech makers than the Hansard writers. That has been my experience in over 32 years in politics. If I could make a speech as good as the ones they write, I think I would be pretty good. I might have said hard things in debates, but that is what makes the show go. It is not a game of kiss in the ring. One believes in principles and if one believes in principles one should express them with as much force as possible. One attempts to impress one's opponents; but one never changes a vote. So, on my own behalf and on behalf of my colleagues I thank honourable senators for the nice words they have said. I wish all pf you - not only those who are leaving the Senate but also those who are staying here - the greatest asset a man can have, that is, health. When one has that one can do a great deal. 
Let me conclude on a personal note. I have enjoyed the lifetime I have had. When one has been a member of a political party for more than 56 years, as I will have been next August, one becomes part of that party. I never wanted to come to Canberra. I could have come earlier than I did - possibly in my heyday in the Labor Party - but I did not want to come. A set of circumstances which some people in this chamber may recall forced my entry into the Commonwealth Parliament. But that is all part of the game. I defeated many, and some defeated me. I wish to thank one person who is not here; that is my wife. Without her I could not have done what I have done. Very few men succeed in life without the help and encouragement of a partner in life such as I had. I thank her for it. I sincerely thank my colleagues for their great kindness in asking me to speak for them, On their behalf and my own,  Mr President  and fellows senators, I say:  'Thank  you'. 

 - Mr Temporary Chairman, the same argument applies to this clause as applied to clause 5. Clause 6 deals with an employer who has not lodged a return. It is similar in one way to clause 5. Therefore I do not want to take up the time of the Senate unduly. Clause 6 catches up with an employer who had in previous years filled in a return but who because of the uncertainty as to the legality of the legislation failed to lodge a return. I do not want to say any more on this. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry whether he is aware that an American biscuit making firm now in Australia is importing biscuits from New Zealand. No doubt this done under the ambit of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. I inform the Minister that the importation of biscuits means that employees in the Australian industry are being displaced. The situation is similar to that which faces pea growers m Tasmania about whom we hear  Senator Lillico  speak. 
I could include my colleague here, but I have listened to  Senator Lillico  on many occasions. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Kennelly,  ask your question. 
I am. Will the Minister ask his colleague at least to request that goods which can be easily manufactured in this country be exempted from that Trade Agreement? 
I  ask a question of the Minister for Civil Aviation and I request no smart answer to it.  I  preface my question with a few remarks. Some time ago the Minister was kind enough to send me a letter in answer to a question concerning the collection of baggage at the Melbourne air terminal of Trans-Australia Airlines.  I  took that letter to the Minister and showed him that he had signed something that was absolutely stupid and,  I  regret to say, false. He promised me that he would get me another reply. Can he inform me when  I  will receive the reply? 
The purpose of the Bill is to amend the States Grants Act 1970 to provide for payment of additional grants to the States as compensation for the loss of their receipts duties. The Federal Government under the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  informed the States that such collecting of receipts duties would have to stop and provided special assistance to help finance the 1970-71 Budgets largely because of the award in the recent wages case. Surely there is no need now for clause 5 of the Bill which deals with the effect of the nonpayment of payroll tax. I regret that this clause came into the Bill at any time because it seems to me that it was a case of trying to pressurise the High Court. The Premier of Victoria, allied with the Premier of South Australia, applied to the High Court to test the validity of payroll tax. Last week the Court gave its decision. It upheld the view that the Commonwealth had the right to collect the tax. Therefore, I see no need for clause 5 which provides for very dire effects if local government bodies in Victoria .and other State instrumentalities do not pay. I hope in the Com:mittee stage or on' the second . reading it. will be moved that clause 5 .be deleted-, because it has. no. purpose. Its purpose, when it was. placed in the Bill really .was to. say to the States: Irrespective of what the Court may decide, if you do. not pay the payroll tax you do net get reimbursed that amount'. 
To State governments- payroll tax wasmore like a cross entry. They paid payrolltax, say $8m, and when the reimbursement' came along that $8m was added to the amount they were to get. Now there is no justification, I would suggest with great respect, for the clause to be in the Bill at all. The High Court has said that the Act as it stands is operative. Therefore, I see no reason why we should clutter a Bill with a clause that means nothing. It would have meant a great deal, no doubt, if the High Court had ruled in favour of the governments of Victoria and South Australia, the 2 governments that were contesting the validity of the Act. The Court has made its decision and I would be delighted to hear the Minister when replying explain the need for this clause. 
I hope you do. Some people had not paid under the Act when the High Court decided that the Commonwealth had the power. I know in one instance the cheque was sent along immediately. For that reason why should we have an Act like this? There will have to be a very valid reason why the Bill should be cluttered with clause 5. Can the Minister say why in his reply? There was never any argument until very recently that the Commonwealth had the power. Someone must have advised the Premier of Victoria. While he is a personal friend of mine except in the game of politics, the advice tendered was not too good and, therefore, he lost the case. 
My friend knows as well, as I know that if he goes to one lawyer:- even his good friend, Condon - he will receive certain advice. If I go to another lawyer he will give some otheradvice. That must have "happened to the Premier of Victoria. 
I move: 
That clause  5  be deleted. 
I listened to  Senator Little's  speech. He said that no good purpose would be served and that the States would go without their money if this clause were deleted.  Senator 

 Sir Kenneth Anderson, in his very nice reply, queries whether this clause does any harm. The fact of the matter is that this Bill was drafted before the High Court gave its judgment. The High Court decided that the Commonwealth had the power to obtain from the States payroll tax. Therefore, the clause has no bearing. All we are doing is cluttering up the statute book with a clause that is not needed. The High Court has laid down that the States must pay. I am not concerned about the Victorian Government paying the State payroll tax. I am worried about the State Government employees. As everyone knows, with the governments it is a cross entry. If  the  State pays $9m, when reimbursement time comes the State' regains the $9m. .  
This legislation has a long history. A -Bill was -introduced by- the Menzies Government in, I think, 1940 when Judge Beeby said that unless child' endowment was given to all children but the first child there would have to be a very significant increase in the basic wage of the day.' The Menzies Administration thought out this tax in order that child endowment could be paid for each child other than the first. 
I have never wanted this tax to be imposed on municipalities because they do not get it back. Local government and other semi-State instrumentalities do not get it back. In one way I regret the judgment of the High Court. At the weekend I had to sign a fairly large cheque. I had adopted the attitude that some councils and other people who have something to do with semi-governmental activities had adopted; I said that I would look at what the Court said. Once the Court said it. we had to pay. This clause does not serve any useful purpose. Surely the last thing that we want legislation to do is to place in our Acts clauses that serve no purpose. 
I want to delete all reference to payroll tax. Clause 5 states: 
After section 9 of the principal Act the following section is inserted . . . 
I ask: What need is there to insert that clause? The High Court - the principal court in the land, according to this Parliament - has said that the States, municipalities, all employers, semi-governmental instrumentalities, etc., have to pay this tax. That was the situation prior to the Premier pf Victoria, and the Premier of South Australia who went with him, wanting the legality of the tax proven one way or the Other. The Court decided it. Why does the Government want to clutter up the Bill? The clause has no purpose. 
 The High Court confirmed the legality of the payroll tax. 
Some parliaments, I admit, are: minor to the national Parliament. The leaders of 2 States, whether by parliamentary action or by executive action, decided, that the Court should judge the matter. There had been rumblings. There are rumblings no longer. The position is that it was illegal for Victoria to stop paying the tax. It is now legal that Victoria pay the tax. Victoria shall pay what everyone else has paid up to this time. Therefore, what good purpose can be served by the clause? Let it not be said that the deletion of the clause will mean bringing back the other place. The Government knows what will happen in practical politics if clause 5 is deleted. The States will get their money. If necessary the Government will pass a Bill making the payment of this tax retrospective to the date on which the tax should have been paid. Can the Government tell me that at the moment no money is being paid to the States under this Bill? Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  tell the Committee that at this moment no cheque, or however the money is paid, is being paid to the various States under this Bill? 
How many Bills have been made retrospective to a certain date? While all honourable senators deplore that legislation was rushed through another place, at least we have had ample opportunity to discuss Bills. I commend the Government for that. Therefore I regret that the Government has taken the stand that this clause should not be deleted from the Bill. I can see no good in having clause 5 in the Bill. I suppose the people who are most concerned with the cluttering up of the statute book are the people who live mainly by the Acts of Parliament, that is, the legal fraternity of this country. Anybody connected with administration should not want the statute book cluttered up. 
I see no good purpose in leaving clause 5 in the Bill. AH it says is that if a State does not pay to the Commonwealth the payroll tax levied on it the Commonwealth can refuse to hand over to that State the amount that it considers the State ought to pay in payroll tax. Surely clauses 5 and 6 should have been deleted. Surely the matter could be dealt with without going to all the trouble of calling  Dr Cairns  back from Budapest or somewhere else, as  Senator Little  said. Goodness, only knows where he goes or what he does, but he has a perfect right to do what he does, as has been said. What I have suggested will not affect  Mr Whitlam's  proposed visit to China. All that concerns me is that he will not take me. I do not want to go because. I have such a pressing appointment every weekend in my city that I never want to go out. 1 think we are making a little bit of a farce out of this matter. We are saying to the people of this nation that this provision is in the Bill because of happenings over which we had no control but over which another House did because it ran away after having passed a Bill' while the matter of payroll tax was before the High Court of Australia. Government supporters in another place or the Parliamentary Draftsman must have thought that the High Court would not decide as it did, otherwise this clause would not have been included. Whoever drafted the Bill made a mistake by putting in it a clause alluding to the payroll tax. The Draftsman must have read the mind of the High Court the wrong way. He was unlucky. Therefore I ask that in common sense the clause be withdrawn. Its deletion will not affect the States and any money that the Commonwealth gives to the States. I am pleased that the Commonwealth is giving to the States the money provided for in the first 4 clauses which have already been agreed to. The money that the Commonwealth gives to the States can be given to them at any time and the Bill to legalise the payment of that money can be submitted in the next session. Those who will be here would certainly agree to a provision that payment of this money be made retrospective to the appropriate date. 
I take the word of the Minister that no money has yet been paid. I did not think the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  or the Commonwealth would be as timid as that. The Bill having been passed in another place, I would have thought that the Premier of my State would commence yelling that he had not got what he was supposed to get under the Bill. I ask the Government to reconsider this clause. We never get anywhere by passing bad legislation. The inclusion of clause 5 is bad legislation.  Senator Hannan  says it is bad;  Senator Little  says it is bad. Therefore let us all get together and say it is bad, pay the money and let those who will be here during the next session; - I will not be here - .legislate to validate retrospective payment to the States. 
