I have much pleasure in seconding the motion moved by  Senator Knight.  I also take the opportunity to extend my congratulations to you,  Mr President,  on your election. I come from the Northern Territory which is a long way from Canberra but,  Mr President,  your record of integrity is well known in the Territory. So on behalf of the people of the Territory I congratulate you. I also take the opportunity to congratulate my good friend the  Chairman  of Committees,  Senator Tom  Drake-Brockman, on his election. 
Today it is a great honour for me to speak because, for the first time, the Northern Territory is represented in the Senate. We have had many constitutional changes over the years but I think that representation in the Senate is probably one of our major milestones. I could say many things regarding the Governor-General 's Speech which was delivered yesterday. I could advert to many things which affect the Northern Territory. Today I devote my comments to the Northern Territory because many of the comments made yesterday referred to the Northern Territory. As honourable senators know it is still a territory. Its authority stems from the Northern Territory Administration Act which is a Federal Act. Many of the policies pursued by Federal governments control our wellbeing and our future. So I take a few minutes to speak on this matter because it is important that I do so. 
I shall give to honourable senators what I consider is the situation in the Northern Territory which is dependent on the Parliament of Australia and on the Commonwealth Government. Being a territorian and particularly an honourable senator for the Northern Territory I believe it is appropriate today that I devote my thoughts to the Northern Territory. I shall speak on industrial, environmental and social factors which pertain to the Northern Territory. I add that these factors are foremost in the minds of my constituents- more so now than at any other time in the history of the Northern Territory. In these days of economic struggle and restraint the average territorian has extended his horizons dramatically. He has done so because although he is aware that he is a member of a community which sprawls over a vast area he prefers to look upon himself as a person who is making a solid contribution not only to the Territory but to Australia as a whole.  His  thinking is quite correct. The entire Territory sees itself in its future role as being capable of performing mighty feats which will be to the benefit not only of the Territory but of Australia. So it is with these thoughts in mind that I address the Senate today. Morever, the eventual resolving of many of our problems can only result in a better Northern Territory and Australia. 
Before enlarging on that theme I say that in the 1970s and beyond I see the Northern Territory as a teenager who is coming into adulthood. When I say 'adulthood' I mean that, as the Governor-General announced yesterday, in the near future it will come to statehood. That is something which I and my colleagues in the Northern Territory, as well as many other people in the Northern Territory, have over the years worked to bring about. 
I applaud the proposed action of our Government of setting up a joint Federal Parliament and Northern Territory Legislative Assembly committee. It will ensure liaison between the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and the national Parliament so that there will be a planned transfer of responsibility to the Northern Territory. 
The Northern Territory is facing an exciting time. Its state of maturity is such that very soon it will be given the key to the door. I might say that this has not happened overnight. It has taken a long time to reach this stage. In 1 974 the Territory gained a fully elected Legislative Assembly. From that time, we have seen it attain adulthood and, as I said before, soon it will attain Statehood. The fact that I am standing here in the Senate today is indicative of the confidence the rest of Australia has in our success. We in the Northern Territory are confident that we can meet the political challenges and subsequent demands which will be required of us. As I have said, it is a confidence which has been brought about by gradual growth. This growth has taken place since 1824, the time of the first colonisation in the Territory. Our efforts have come from the pioneers of that time to the present day. Our political confidence is emerging. Our first Legislative Council met in 1947. We have gone from childhood to adulthood. 
However, I do not wish to present a rosy picture of the present day Northern Territory, which frankly is faced with obstacles which must be overcome. They are not altogether different in nature from the difficulties which are being faced in the Australian States; but perhaps the magnitude of our difficulties is greater because of the different environments. In outlining the current situations within our industries and commerce and community areas, I do so not with the intention of inviting debate; there will be ample time for that in the days to come. However, I feel that I must report upon and in some cases repeat some of the inadequacies which have occurred in recent years and which, unless rectified, will result in the demise of valuable development. We are at a very exciting stage in mining and exploration. This is evident if one looks at the prospects of economic stability to be obtained from the natural resources in Australia, many of which are contained in the soils of the Northern Territory. Yet simultaneously we are faced with the massive task of rejuvenating a vital industry which was seriously injured in its formative stages, largely through nationalisation and sheer nervous reluctance to gamble on the costly development of exploration and mining. These industries must be put back on their feet for the sake of Australia. In retrospect, we can all ask where we went wrong. However, it is more appropriate at this stage to say: 'Let us put right the damage which has been done'. The chances of success in the production of natural gas, oil and minerals are excellent. In the Alice Springs area in the centre of Australia we are now ready for the Government to say 'go' on the construction of a refinery. I expect that under our Government which represents free enterprise we will see this happen, and I look forward to it being built in a few years time. 
Our contribution to the world supply of uranium will be of the utmost importance as a result of our generous deposits. Today the world is looking towards the Northern Territory providing its uranium energy supply from a time as close as the 1980s when the demands for uranium will reach increased proportions. Our discoveries of uranium in the Top End and in central Australia, together with our huge deposits of bauxite at Gove, silver, zinc and lead at 
McArthur River and copper and gold at Tennant Creek and other areas, place the Northern Territory in an extremely enviable position at the top of the natural resources ladder. Let us take natural gas for a start. It has been suggested already that reserves in northern South Australia may not be adequate for the proposed gas pipeline to New South Wales. This fact alone validates the urgent need for further exploration in central Australia, where deposits virtually are known to exist in large quantities. However, small exploration companies have been thwarted in their efforts to carry on this vital exploration through the lack of governmental assistance, encouragement or backing which could have meant those deposits or reserves being well on their way to the consumer today. Instead, the companies have packed up their drills and moved to greener pastures where their skills can be better appreciated. It will be expensive for them to come back and take up where they left off. But this must happen. Therefore we, as a country, must give them every encouragement. 
The story concerning oil is similar to that in relation to other minerals. We must, as an urgent priority, stimulate interest and investment in these areas. We must look at ways of introducing incentives such as taxation deductions for exploration. We must make it attractive to overseas companies to come to Australia with their knowhow and equipment- companies which will put the necessary finance into such projects for the good of Australia, with Australian participation and control. At the same time we must encourage the small investor to look closely at exploration and mining. Stimulation in these fields is selfgenerating and the lifeblood of the industries concerned lies with the explorers. Let us reintroduce those urgently needed incentives. 
I turn away from mining and exploration to deal with an industry which for decades has been a mainstay of our internal economy. I refer to the pastoral industry. Once again, the cause of the present state of this industry lies mainly in the lack of foresight by our predecessors when crippling blows were dealt to this industry by the abolition of the fuel equalisation scheme and enormous increases in rail freight and other transport costs. Added to this is the unfortunate and untimely slump in beef export markets. Today, because of these factors, the Northern Territory pastoral industry is not only ailing; it could be described as a disaster area. Whilst we appreciate the need for restraint in financial assistance and realise the stresses currently burdening our economy, we know that the complete collapse of this once vibrant industry will impose far-reaching hardships not only upon the Territory people but also upon the many markets which depend heavily on the Territory's beef production. 
Let us take a quick glance at the serious problem which occurred last year when we had several examples of producers being forced to send extra money to their southern agents to cover costs of transport after prices realised at markets did not even meet the investment needed to get the produce to the market. The fact that prices were low was secondary to the alarming realisation that the producer could no longer afford the luxury of transporting his stock to the market. I am sure that there are not many producers outside the Territory who are forced to transport their produce up to 1000 miles to be sold. What then is the answer which will get this industry back to a healthy state? Carry on finance alone cannot be the solution. That merely adds an extra financial burden on the producer who today is battling hard enough to meet his daytoday running expenses. It may help him overcome his immediate needs. But we have to look at long term solutions and they cannot be found until costs are put back on a viable footing. I believe that if this is at all possible it will be done pursuant to the present Government's attitude to the economy. Another probable solution lies in the continued development of a complete industry which provides for the establishment of a secondary addition, such as beef killing facilities to cut down transport costs. It is an aim which needs to be implemented as soon as possible to assist the pastoralist in his survival. The Northern Territory must be considered as a future warehouse for the rest of Australia in many different ways. Responsible government, controlled development and proper management will ensure this in years to come. 
Although it is not an industry as such, defence is a subject which is close to the heart of many people in the Northern Territory particularly those in the Top End. We cannot afford to ignore the possibility of further attacks in the future. This is not an alarmist attitude but a very realistic one. Who could have foreseen the attacks on Darwin and other northern areas in 1942 which had such devastating results and substantial loss of life? Admittedly we are not in the throes of a world war as we were then, but with anxiety increasing in the East Timor area, which is but a short hop across the water, it is only natural that a feeling of apprehension is evident in the minds of those who are most vulnerable, that is, the people of the north. It may be hard for people in the southern parts of Australia to understand the apprehension that these people have. These people have suffered attack. Until now, with the election of this Government, it appeared that our defences were eroding away. There has been much room for apprehension, but not only for apprehension. We, the people at the Top End of Australia, in the outback, feel that we need a strong defence system. We believe that a strong system makes a healthy country. If we had had a healthy country I wonder whether what has occurred in Timor in the last few months would have occurred. I and many other people in the outback of Australia who are so close to Timor- a fighter plane takes 15 minutes to fly from the mainland to Timor- have a sense of shame and feel that we have let down these allies of ours who supported and assisted Australian troops with loss of life to themselves. But, as I have said, I am speaking about the Northern Territory, and I will have something more to say on that matter later. 
At a time when we are looking towards the updating and modernisation of our naval, military and air forces, which as I have said have been allowed to deteriorate, it would serve us well to consider seriously the advantages of the establishment of defence facilities along our northern coastline. The defence of our northern coastline, which runs many thousands of miles, could have a multitude of advantages for our present national defence services. Briefly the establishment of defence installations in the north now would enable acclimatisation of those who would be engaged in any future action. This should not be taken lightly because at present, as highly trained as they are, they are without the working knowledge or appreciation of tropical conditions and the difficulties experienced in coping with those conditions. Also, by setting up defence facilities yet another form of development would be created, at the same time ensuring greater protection for Australia and its wealthy inland resources. 
Tourism is a tremendous industry in the Northern Territory. Without going into very much detail, the development of tourism in the Northern Territory would assist greatly the national economy. The Northern Territory, with its unique environment, has the potential to be one of the nation's leading tourist destination areas both nationally and internationally, but cooperation between the Government and the tourist authorities in the Northern Territory is needed to bring this about. 
I turn now to a completely different form of development which, to me and to many people in the Northern Territory, is the most important single social factor in the lifestyle of the Territory. I refer to Aboriginal affairs. There can be no doubt that both Aboriginal and European races must be given every opportunity to develop together. Some policies in the past, when implemented, have tended to create a form of apartheid within both communities which I sincerely believe is neither warranted nor wanted in any Australian society, certainly not in the Northern Territory. 
The lessons of the past must be the basis of our future legislation for the welfare of the Aboriginal people. Every effort must be made to ensure the exclusion or elimination of any type of discriminatory or separatist legislation. It boils down to the fact that our first consideration must be the complete understanding of the Aborigine as an individual in a bi-racial community. Also in the implementation of Aboriginal policies we must be careful to distinguish between the more traditional Aborigines, whose self identity has been culturally shaped and formed, and those whose self identity has been largely formed on the basis of colour. There is much misunderstanding about this. The latter, for political reasons, have attempted to project the image that Aborigines are a homogeneous race- a fact which is vigorously disputed by the cultural Aborigines. For them, an Aboriginal is one who knows the Aboriginal law. Thus for them aboriginality has nothing to do with colour. Both of these groups have needs and aspirations which differ and therefore policy initiatives aimed at helping them must also be differentiated. 
Let us keep in mind also a few statistical facts which dictate the need for such special care in the Northern Territory; the first being that out of a total population of about 100 000 people in the Northern Territory some 24 000 constitute the Aboriginal population and of them about 1 8 000 live in mission-sponsored townships and Aboriginal reserves. The remaining 7000 live in rural and urban areas off reserves in the Northern Territory. It is a fact that many of this latter group have lived, or are at present living, on pastoral properties- the number is declining- and have been an important component in the development of the pastoral industry. It is also acknowledged that despite some wrongful policies of the past a lot has been achieved in the development of employment areas for Aborigines. Many of these face the danger of winding down through lack of financial assistance. This fact alone can prove confusing to the Aboriginal who has been gainfully employed on projects. Through his eyes he sees a situation where money cannot be found to provide him with work yet there is a never-ending reserve available for him in the form of unemployment or. as he calls it, sit down money. 
I refer now to the subject of land rights. My Party is not against the principle of granting land to the Aboriginal people, yet at the same time we are vitally concerned that such legislation be implemented to the satisfaction of all Territorians without being at the expense of one or the other race. In fact we are pledged to ensure that Aborigines are granted land and that subsequent legislation contributes to the ultimate goal of a successful bi-racial community. The people of the Northern Territory attach such importance to that fact that I will repeat myself. Our future thoughts and actions must be guided towards the ultimate goal of a successful bi-racial community. To be more concise, we must look closely at the intricate issues involved in granting Aboriginal land rights in order to ensure that those rights are not abused by either race and also to ensure that their sole basis is not the overemphasis which is so often placed on theorist ideals. Let me say that many people appear to forget that with the Aborigines we are dealing with people, not just numbers. 
Another important issue, although not so farreaching a community issue, is the reconstruction of cyclone devastated Darwin and the role played by the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. I bring forward this point today because the Darwin Reconstruction Commission was set up by the Federal Houses of Parliament and presented to the Northern Territory. The Commission has come under severe criticism because of some of its operations since its inception in January last year. In most cases the criticism has been quite valid. It is true that the Commission, with considerable Government support- and I stress that- has spent many millions of dollars in an attempt to put our northernmost city back together again. The Commission was faced with a mammoth task and one for which it did not have the guidelines of precedent to follow. However, its ability undoubtedly has been called in question due to several factors, most of which have been engendered by bureaucratic interference, duplication of operations, sheer red tape and governmental strangling, and I heard a comment in the Governor-General's speech that had some reference to that. 
I say that the feasibility of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission is now at an end; its days of usefulness are over. Darwin now is at a stage where the Commission can be phased out successfully and Territory-based organisations can take over, acting within the boundaries of existing departmental facilities. In following that course, I would recommend that certain structural changes be undertaken which would enable the merging of the Northern Territory Housing Commission and its counterpart branch in the Department of Construction into a corporate body. We cannot afford the luxury of an operation that is continually hampered by fragmentation, overlapping authority and red tape. The terms of operation under a centralist style of government have been largely inoperative in the case of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission and that has caused a fragmentation of many good intentions which were evident at the outset of the project but which have been undermined. At the same time I call for greater autonomy to be placed in the hands of the Federal Minister for the Northern Territory, not only in this case but also in the case of several other administrative bodies within the Northern Territory. 

 Mr Deputy President, I am running out of time and I will cut short my speech. Still dealing with the Top End and turning to yet another thorn in the sides of its inhabitants, I refer to the port of Darwin, which has been allowed to stagnate to a point where it can be described only as an excuse for a port. It is a tragic situation, and the port desperately needs re-establishment or upgrading. That cannot be done overnight, and at this stage the present usage of the port does not justify large funds being poured into it. But we in the Territory are not looking at the present; we are looking to the future, and in particular our future potential. In this case, the future potential of the port of Darwin is unlimited. Adequate port facilities undoubtedly would stimulate and attract industry, and by facilities I refer to means of making available speedier turnaround for cargo ships and the quick handling of all classes of cargo. There is no reason why Darwin eventually should not become a major Australian port which would provide the inland centres with an all year service and supply of goods. The port of Darwin has indeed stagnated. It has been blessed with the ancient T-head jetty and piled trestle approach, giving no immediate landbacked storage and movement areas. Incidentally, this type of wharf is the same as that constructed in 1 869, and it was in 1 894 that it was first proposed that a land-backed berth should be built. Numerous proposals and reports are being made today, and even if the immediate goahead to upgrade the port were given it would be three to five years before it would be fully operational. 
In conclusion, may I say that my address today has not been designed as a platform to express miraculous answers to the various issues pertinent to the Northern Territory and its growth. Rather I would hope that it has served to air for the first time in this House the potential contribution our vast Territory has the ability to offer this nation. I see my presence here today as a significant move towards recognition of that fact by the Australian electorate. For far too long the Northern Territory has been devoid of an effective voice at senatorial level, and I see my future role and that of my honourable friend the other senator from the Northern Territory as that of an instrument of liaison between the people of the Northern Territory and this House of Parliament during this historic and vibrant emergence into economic and social stability. Thank you,  Mr Deputy President. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. Following a meeting with Katherine townspeople in the Northern Territory, I made representations to the Minister regarding matters relating to Katherine schools. Is he now in a position to give me an answer? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory in a position to comment on a statement in the  Northern Territory News  of 17 February relating to a statement made by the  Chairman  of the Northern Territory Housing Commission and headed 'Government Freeze on Home Repairs'? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that the Department of Transport recommended to the previous Government that the Commonwealth rail link from Larrimah to Darwin be closed? If this is so, will the Government ensure that before any action is taken consultation will take place between the Government, industry and the Northern Territory community? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. I have been advised that on several occasions in the last week the Australian Broadcasting Commission has referred to further cuts being made in Government expenditure in the Northern Territory and has listed various projects. I believe that the information comes from an unnamed source. As the Minister for the Northern Territory has previously indicated the amount of cuts for this financial year and the deferment of further amounts to the next financial year, will the Minister comment on those news items, having in mind that there is considerable apprehension in the Northern Territory community with many firms in the building industry retrenching staff because of their uncertainty for the future? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. In view of the great importance of the cattle industry to the Northern Territory, can the Minister inform the Senate what research the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is undertaking in the Northern Territory to assist the agricultural and pastoral industries? Can the Minister also indicate what other work the CSIRO might be undertaking in the Northern Territory? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory been drawn to the statement made in the Northern Territory media that only $3m in additional funds has been made available for low interest housing loans in Darwin and that funds made available for home finance trustee loans are still about $ 1 m short of meeting the commitment for approved loans? Are those statements factual? What money has been made available for such loans? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. Following my question on 2 March relating to the home finance scheme for Darwin and the Northern Territory and the answer that a statement was to be made later that day, has the Minister any further information relating to the funding of loans to those applicants in Darwin whose homes have suffered from cyclone damage? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Having in mind that the rail link between Port Augusta and Alice Springs has once again been disrupted by heavy rain and flooding, when is it expected that the rail services will be resumed? Is it a fact that damage to the track is more serious than that experienced in the last few years? Is it a fact also that the rail head for Northern Territory goods established at Kingoonya, as an interim measure, will continue for an indefinite period? Is the Commonwealth Railways authority making a close survey of that section of the line near Curdimurka where the level of water in Lake Eyre south recently threatened to engulf the line? Does the authority consider that flood waters now coming down the Channel country from Queensland will cause flooding of the line in the Lake Eyre south area? 
I, too, stand to support this Bill which relates to the continuity of service for the teachers who came to the Northern Territory from South Australia and New South Wales. I first take the opportunity of commenting on the service that the teachers from South Australia gave to the Northern Territory some few years ago, before the teachers in the Northern Territory came under the control of the Commonwealth Teaching Service. I should like to pay a compliment to them. While South Australia had difficulties in staffing its own schools it saw fit for many years to send teachers in increasing numbers, to the Northern Territory. I believe that the Northern Territory owes a considerable amount to South Australia for the work it has done over the years. Of course, teachers from New South Wales have also taught in the Northern Territory. If we look back to the period when teachers were supplied from South Australia and New South Wales to the Northern Territory we remember these dedicated people who gave two or three years of their time to the Northern Territory working in the outback. Their work has been greatly appreciated. In fact, what they did was the basis of the Commonwealth Teaching Service that now exists. 
Since the establishment of the Commonwealth Teaching Service- I speak particularly for the Northern Territory- education has gone ahead in leaps and bounds. It has been a strain on the Commonwealth Teaching Service to cope with this demand. As speakers in this debate have said, the previous Liberal and National Country Party Government introduced legislation to set up the Commonwealth Teaching Service and Labor carried out the administration. All in all, education has gone a long way in the Northern Territory in the last few years but many problems lie ahead. I was pleased to see that in the last week  Senator Carrick,  the Minister for Education, spent a week in the Northern Territory. He visited many settlements, Aboriginal schools, primary schools in various centres, high schools and community colleges throughout the Territory in Alice Springs, Tennant Creek, Katherine, Darwin and Gove. With the first hand information the Minister now has I am sure that we can look forward to a continuity of service to the Northern Territory. As the Minister realises, there are tremendous problems ahead. There will be tremendous strains on the Commonwealth Teaching Service. 
One problem, which is not peculiar to the Northern Territory but affects also some of the States, is that of Aboriginal education. This is a very big responsibility because we have so many children living in the outback, in the bush and on small settlements. These children need to be given an education. In the Northern Territory today there is very little opportunity for many of the children- particularly the Aboriginal children- to receive an education. One of our big responsibilities is to concentrate particularly on these Aboriginal children. They have to be given an education so that they can join in our way of life. Because of assimilation- if that is what we like to call it- which is the breaking down of tribal barriers, and because of the increase in the number of Aboriginal children they cannot live their own way of life but must join in our way of life. 
As I said, much has to be done. There are many problems to be overcome. I have noticed, when travelling around the Northern Territory in the past year, that the attendance in some of the schools which are predominantly Aboriginal is falling off. It concerns me to see that this is happening, despite the fact that the Government is outlaying vast sums of money, as has been the case in the last few years. I think the Territory has enjoyed a very good share of funds for education. 
I agree with the honourable senator that the Government should spend vast sums of money on education in the Northern Territory. It is happening. There are teachers coming forward in increasing numbers but the attendance at some of the schools in the outback is dropping off. I think it is dropping off for many reasons. Probably one of the reasons is that in many of these settlements now the life of the Aboriginal person is deteriorating. If one had gone to some of these places a couple of years ago one would have found happy communities in which Aboriginal people were working and children were going to school. That scene has changed now. What is happening is that very few Aboriginal people are working on these settlements. They are being paid now what they call sit down money'. That is their term for it. They are being paid living allowances. Instead of using this money for their own good, they are spending a lot of it in various grog shops that are situated on some of the perimeters of the settlements. 
Yes. That is one. The effect of this state of affairs is that the children follow the example of their parents. The children are leaving school. The education of many of this generation of children whom we would have expected to come forward and join in the life of the Northern Territory will be wasted. I believe that we will lose a complete generation with respect to education if steps are not taken to correct the situation. 
As I said before, many things need to be done. We see technical training being introduced in the Australian Capital Territory. It is my hope that we will see more emphasis given to technical training in the Northern Territory. I mention especially technical training for another group of children who, by and large have been overlooked. I refer this time to part-coloured children, of whom there are a large number in the Northern Territory. Many of these children come from poor circumstances. Their home life is not the same as that of other children inasmuch as they recieve very little encouragement with respect to homework, school life and so on. These children go to primary school and some go on to high school. The type of curriculum that is taught to these children in high school is such that the work is of little interest to them. What we do see in towns in the Northern Territory is that these children leave school before the age prescribed- many in the Territory leave school at 13 years, 14 years or 15 years- and wander the streets. One can see them outside the hotels. Even girls of that age are to be found there in some places. The boys go around in gangs getting up to some mischief or other. Yet, I believe that if these children were given some training involving the use of their hands- some technical training- good results would be achieved. These are bright kids. They have the ability to learn. If this sort of training could be introduced for these children it is my belief that they could play their part in the Northern Territory. If it is not, they will continue to be a problem. 
I noted in the last week that the inquiry into the proposed Katherine rural college has been completed. I understand that, very soon, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  will receive the report of that inquiry. I look forward to the Government receiving that report as I believe that if the Government picks up the recommendations of that report- I understand that the establishment of a rural college in Katherine is recommended- this will bring about more training and eventually more job opportunities for children in the Northern Territory. But it will go further than that. I believe that our northern neighbours, the people from the islands, will be able to attend. 
The picture that I have painted can be viewed in this way:  Senator Carrick  is the Minister responsible for education and his Department has an immense responsibility ahead of it. Assistance is being received from the teachers of Australia who have come to the Northern Territory as part of the Australian Teaching Service. I believe that they can carry out the work that is necessary. But we must recognise the problem- I think that  Senator Carrick  realises the situation now- that is created by the freezing of staff numbers and funds. The freezing of teaching staff numbers to certain establishments is causing problems. I understand that the Northern Territory is on a teaching staff establishment that was fixed in 1974. For the good of the Department of Education and for the children of the Northern Territory, I hope that this matter can be reconsidered and that the teaching service will be allowed once again to grow. 
I, too, am pleased to see that the word 'Commonwealth' is coming back into official usage. In the Northern Territory I did not like to see the word 'Australian' in some places. I might be going off at a tangent in my remarks now, but may I say that the sooner the word 'Australian' is removed from the buildings, letterheads and wherever it appears, and the sooner its use with respect to the Police Force in the Northern Territory is discontinued, the happier I will be. The Police Force in the Northern Territory is now back in its proper place, under the control of the Minister for the Northern Territory. There was never such a body as the Australian Police Force. But I will not continue on that tangent. I support the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and refers to the resignation of education staff in the Northern Territory and the current non-replacement of such staff. What is the Minister's attitude on this matter? 
There has been a certain amount of emotion and venom from a particular honourable senator opposite in the debate tonight. This has occurred to the degree that it has been detrimental in the debate to the real case.  Senator Scott  has said that the beef industry is at present in a trough. I would say that the position is much more serious than that. The beef industry at the moment is in a chasm. I believe that many in the industry will not come out of it. The Meat Export Charge Amendment Bill, which does away with the export levy, is not the beginning or the end of it all. It is merely one facet of the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission to assist the beef producer. The beef industry throughout Australia now is in very poor straits. We hear senators from Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria and Tasmania- everywhere we look- indicating very clearly the poor circumstances of those people engaged in the beef industry in their States. 
My interest and experience is in the Northern Territory. It is to this area that I would like to devote a few minutes of my time. The beef industry in the Northern Territory some few years ago was a very vigorous industry. It really developed the Territory. After the beef came mining. However, during the last few years, through a series of circumstances, the beef industry has deteriorated to such an extent that, as I have said, some people will not come out of the present depressed circumstances. I will produce some figures later on to prove my point. The Australian Labor Party disagrees with this measure and says that every assistance must be given to the beef industry. I and the people of the Territory have some bitterness about the way the beef industry in the Territory has been treated in the last few years. I refer particularly to the freight subsidy scheme that used to assist the pastoralists and beef producers who were thousands of miles from the market.  Mr President,  that subsidy was taken away when the industry was beginning to stagger. It was a blow from which the industry never recovered. 
Of course, on top of that the thing that helped to erode the living standards of people in the outback was the abolition of the fuel equalisation scheme. People who have not lived in the outback and who have not had to spend so much money on fuel perhaps do not realise what this did to the beef producer and to the ordinary person in the outback. The fuel bills for people in the outback, who previously paid only 3c or 4c a gallon more for their fuel, have increased to such a degree in the last 18 months that in parts of the Territory fuel now costs $1.20 a gallon. In the beef industry this reflects on the maintenance of the station, the running costs, the fuel for the electric light plant, the fuel for the drilling rig and so on. This has been another crippling blow. We have a situation now in which beef exports are at a very low ebb and where do we find the people who are so far from markets now? First of all, take the Alice Springs area. It is estimated now that because of the lack of markets and because it is so costly to get the cattle to market there are more than 100 000 cattle too many in the area. 
That is not  Mr Anthony's  fault. 
You can prove it as much as you like but at the moment,  Mr President,  I am on my feet and what I say is this: What has happened over the past 2 years has been in the hands of the Labor Party. It has destroyed the beef industry in the Northern Territory. 
He has been there on the Public Works Committee. I was referring,  Mr President,  to the matter of cattle in isolation and what has happened to them and the cost of getting these cattle to market. It is estimated now that the cost of getting a beast to market from central Australia- that is 1000 miles- is something like $34 to $35 per head. The effective increase in freight charges from January 1973 to November 1975 was 93.4 per cent. Do honourable senators know why this has come about? It is because of the cost recovery scheme that Labor has inflicted upon the people of the outback. The people of the outback have every right to live in circumstances similar to the people on the seaboard. But policy has provided over the past 2 years that this will not be so. So we have a dilapidated railway line that was built before the turn of the century. It is narrow gauge and it was built on the sand bed of the sand dunes. Now, through this cost recovery policy that has been inflicted on the people of the outback over the past 2 years - 
Labor did do that as part of its policy. As a result the cost of freight went up some 93.4 per cent in 18 months. This happened because it is impossible to make that railway line viable and economic. Yet the people of the outback were inflicted with this cost recovery policy. So we now have this most unfortunate situation in which a viable beef industry has been practically destroyed. I do not exaggerate. I am not like the farmer to whom an honourable senator referred a little while ago who claimed that all would be lost. Not all will be lost but many pastoralists in the Northern Territory will go under this year. This is due, first of all, to the fact that these increasing costs have forced pastoralists to go to the station agent for finance because the carry-on finance of $15,000 came far too late and is not sufficient anyway. We do not reject desirability of that finance but it was just a drop in the ocean. It came too late and there should have been more of it. But it did help a little bit. Many pastoralists would now owe some $30,000 to $40,000 to the station agent. In fact, I understand that some pastoralists owe up to $100,000 on particular properties. They are paying 13 per cent interest. This has been going on for quite a long time. The situation now is that the station agent has allowed the pastoralists to borrow up to 75 per cent and in some instances up to 1 00 per cent of the value of their property. 
I think that the station agent is not a parasite. At least he has kept the cattle owner- the lessee- in business. 
The honourable senator opposite says that it was for good reason. 
I doubt,  Mr President,  that when these people are sold up- some I am sure will be- the amount that the station agent gets back will meet the debt of the pastoralists. This is a most serious situation. Getting away from some of the mud and expressions that have been used here tonight, it is my hope that people will realise the situation in which the beef industry finds itself. 
I suggest that the first thing we must do is to give them freight assistance once again. I say that because of the figures that I have just cited. The gross price that they are receiving now is something like $40 per head. Naturally, the price fluctuates. With the freight at something like $30, the profit margin is too small for the industry to be viable. In fact, it happened last year- not once but several times- that when a pastoralist sent his cattle south by road and rail he had to send a cheque to cover the amount of money that was lacking. 
-I am saying that this Bill must be passed. I do not give priorities in this situation. All I am saying is that a series of things has to be done and that this Bill does not do all those things. I think that the Bill will assist to some degree, I shall give an indication of what it could mean to the Northern Territory beef producer. I think this comparison is accurate. It is a comparison taken over 5 years between the costs of a beef producer in the Northern Territory on the abolition of the meat export charge and on the forecast slaughter levy of $1. This is a comparison over the period 1969 to 1975. With the total turn-off of 190 000 head of cattle, the estimated number for export would be 113 000. Taking the average bone-out weight of 300 pounds per beast, the export charge per head would have been $4.80. So on a basis of 1 per cent the tOtal revenue would have been $546,000. Assuming that 119 000 cattle are slaughtered, with the levy at $1 per head the estimated saving to the Northern Territory producers per annum would be only $427,000. That amount would be spread out over the Territory. So I am not saying that it is a tremendous thing. But with that and other things it must be of some assistance. 
One comment I really could not understand was the remark by  Senator Walsh  about the Government turning on its head. He was assuming that this is the first measure that has been brought in against recommendation 4 (a) in the report of the Industries Assistance Commission, which states that the suspension of the charge should not take precedence over the other assistance recommended. This is not the first step. The first step was taken last year when carry-on finance was made available. I have said before that the provision of carry-on finance of some $ 1 5,000 is helpful to a degree but it is not enough to get the pastoralists out of trouble. However, that was the first step, taken last year. I might say that it came rather late. I think that the administrative arrangements to cater for that $15,000 have brought that particular phase of the recommendations into a situation where it has not been particularly helpful. It has been very difficult to get this loans scheme operating. 
The honourable senator has asked- I think this is coming to the crux of the matter- what we can do to assist the beef industry. I would say that one of the main answers is to be found in recommendation 1 (a) of the Industries Assistance Commission's report, which states that the existing special credit facilities for beef cattle producers should be extended and the terms of loans should be varied so that the rates of interest average not less than 4 per cent per annum over all loans. 
I am just saying it is a minimum of 4 per cent. Actually I think it would be higher than that. But what has to happen now is that all of the loans of the pastoralists have to be consolidated. They owe carry-on finance to the Government. They owe money to the station agents. They owe money to the banks. I would suggest that their whole financial structure is in a mess. So I hope that, in line with the recommendations contained in the report of the IAC, we will see further assistance given to the industry so that it can consolidate its loans. 
I shall be very brief in talking about the brucellosis and tuberculosis campaigns. We are all in agreement that they have to be continued. I do not think that there is any argument about that. The tuberculosis eradication campaign in the Northern Territory has been going on for quite a few years now and, because of the valiant efforts of members of the Department of Primary Industry in the Northern Territory, tremendous inroads have been made into clearing up the disease. Many dedicated people are working on these projects in the outback. I look forward to continued government support for this campaign. One honourable senator opposite said that there is no incentive to keep a herd clean. I do not know where that honourable senator may see herds, but I can assure him that if those engaged in the beef industry in the Northern Territory do not keep their herds clean and do not have good housekeeping procedures they will fall by the wayside. 
I support the Bill. As I said before, I am not particularly carried away with the legislation, I do not think that it is going to have a tremendous influence overall. All I am saying is that it is part of an attempt to assist the pastoralists. I look forward to further support for those people. But it should be remembered, as I have said before, that many pastoralists are going to go under regardless of what happens now. The sooner the beef industry is again stabilised the more will be saved. There are now people in the Territory who are practically walking off their properties. Some of the stations there might just have a caretaker. Valued employees who have lived on stations and have given very loyal service over the years have had to go because the revenue of the stations has dropped to such an extent. I commend and support the Bill. 
The Minister representing the Minister for Construction would be aware of the statements made by the Northern Territory Master Builders Association in which it is claimed that economy cuts in the Northern Territory civil works program are going to total $154m. Can the Minister say whether this is true or false as chaos and confusion are setting in among Northern Territory contractors about their future and the future of their employees? Secondly, does a similar situation exist in the States of Australia? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it the intention of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to fill all vacant positions, including those of industrial and ancillary staff, in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs? 
Unfortunately I was not present before the suspension of the sitting for dinner to hear the commencement of  Senator Cavanagh  's speech. However, I am aware of this case. I think it was round about this period, when I was a member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, that I took up the position of Executive Member for Finance and Law. Some weeks after.-my attention was drawn to various matters relating to this case. I was given a transcript of the evidence; it was quite a long document which took some time to read. I became concerned with some aspects of the evidence as I went through the transcript. Because I was dissatisfied with the situation I asked, in my role as Executive Member, for further action to be taken. I think I may have written- I do not have the file before me- to  Senator Cavanagh  when he was Minister for Police and Customs. I certainly wrote to other people requesting that the matter be reviewed and perhaps further investigation could be carried out. 
As I said before, I am most unhappy about the situation. In the last few weeks of my membership of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly I felt one of my duties was to clear up this matter and I asked a person who had taken over my duty in the Legislative Assembly to pursue it. I believe that the matter requires further investigation. The evidence that the doctor gave relating to the woman's death indicates, to my mind, that there is every reason to believe that injustice has been done. Reading this evidence I felt it was a likelihood that a person was at large who was responsible for this crime. Probably the fact that stuck in my mind the most was the medical evidence of  Dr Hawkins  from the Alice Springs Hospital. I have a note in front of me which states that the medical evidence given by  Dr Hawkins  also ruled out the possibility of the men inflicting the injuries from which Perla Sweet died, the injuries having been inflicted at least 14 hours later. I think from reading the evidence that that is an accurate statement. As I said before, I have not my file before me and so I am not able to discuss the matter at length, as it is very involved. Let me repeat that I am unhappy about the situation. When I was the Executive Member for Finance and Law 1 asked the authorities to further investigate it. I am not prepared to support the charge because I think it is a serious one and it needs further evidence. 
No, perhaps not a charge. It has been said that perhaps the medical authorities in the Alice Springs Hospital were at fault. Knowing the people involved I can say that they have done remarkable work in the Territory. I think it would be most unusual in these circumstances if they gave the wrong treatment. However, that is just my opinion. I support  Senator Cavanagh  in his request that the matter be continued to be reviewed. I asked the previous Government to ensure that this matter was reviewed. It was not then reviewed. The matter now comes in front of a new government, the Liberal-National Country Party coalition, and I would expect it to pick up this case and further investigate it. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Construction. Does the Minister recall that I asked him a question last Thursday concerning alleged economy cuts in the Northern Territory civil works program? Did the Minister undertake to seek some additional information from his colleague for me? Is the Minister in a position to advise me of the result of his inquiries? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister make enquiries through the Australian Embassy in Jakarta regarding the whereabouts of  Mr and 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. In view of the heavy flooding and damage to main road surfaces in the Northern Territory, is the Department of the Northern Territory actively repairing the main roads network? Has sufficient finance been made available to carry out necessary repairs and reconstruction? What plans has the Government for repairing secondary roads in the Northern Territory? 
I ask the Minister for Commerce and Industry: What is the Government's plan for the development of adequate communication between it and the Australian tourist industry? What part, if any, does the Government expect the Australian Tourist Commission, ATC, and the Australian National Travel Association, ANTA, to play in strengthening the lines of communication. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. Northern Meat Exporters Pty Ltd has indicated that because of severe financial losses the Katherine Meat Works are not to reopen in May this year and that the opening date of the abattoirs is obscure. I understand that the Katherine Meat Works, because of these losses, possibly could work in liaison with the Wyndham Meat Works. Though this step may be of some assistance, the fact is that if the Katherine Meat Works did not open for the 1976 killing season this would be a further blow to the pastoral industry in the Northern Territory. What is the Government's attitude to this matter of extreme concern in the Northern Territory? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Has there been a considerable down-turn in school attendance by Aboriginal children in the Northern Territory; if so, what has caused this trend, and what action is envisaged to improve attendance at schools. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to an article in the  Australian  of Monday, 5 April, entitled  A most inhumane gamebashing the unemployed,  by  Senator James  McClelland in which the words 'the Fraser Government's dole bludger campaign' are used. 
The article states: 
There is a certain droll irony in the fact that so many people can hold the unemployed responsible for their fate and at the same time blame unemployment on the Whitlam Government. Surely they can't have it both ways. 
The Fraser Government is playing an inhuman game in exploiting this unlovely side of human nature. 
My question is: Is not the honourable senator endeavouring to continue to confuse the citizens of Australia, as Labor practised over the last 3 years, by its irresponsible spending that brought the country to the brink of bankruptcy, brought industry to a chaotic condition and, with the resultant widespread unemployment, brought considerable misery to the people of Australia? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Recently the  Chairman  of the Darwin Hospital Advisory Board tabled a report which was highly critical of the present state of the Darwin Hospital. In view of the deplorable conditions that exist, what action has been taken to rectify the faults and deficiencies? In view of the deterioration of the Darwin Hospital, who is responsible for the lack of maintenance and reconstruction? Have further resignations been received from the Department of Health in Darwin because of the conditions indicated in the report? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the present situation in regard to the upgrading of salaries for medical staff in the Northern Territory. 
Has recruiting of professional staff been carried out this year; if so, with what result. 
How many vacancies for medical staff exist in the Northern Territory and in which centres. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Government give any assistance to alleviate the huge freight charges that the Northern Territory community is now called upon to pay, in particular, the increased cost to the building industry of some eleven to thirteen per cent, in view of further heavy flooding in Central Australia this week and the fact that it now appears the Port Augusta to Alice Springs rail link will continue to be disrupted indefinitely. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Are many persons and organisations, including unions, in the Northern Territory, and members of the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory, concerned that the Government does not carry out Consumer Price Index surveys in the Territory. 
Will the Government introduce the Consumer Price Index into the Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Department of the Northern Territory in 1 974 advertise a position of Director of Corrective Services for the Northern Territory. If so, has an appointment been made. If not, why not? 
What is the establishment, and present strength of, staff servicing the various arms of the corrective services in the Northern Territory? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Is the Commonwealth Teachers Federation in the Northern Territory concerned at the lack of suitable housing for its members in the Northern Territory. 
Has the Federation requested that a survey be carried out to ascertain accurately teachers' housing requirements. 
If this survey is being carried out, would the Minister advise the present position. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. In many areas in the Northern Territory and, no doubt, in other places in Australia people, particularly those of the Aboriginal race, because of lack of work opportunities are paid living allowances or unemployment benefit. Having in mind the effect of this type of assistance on the Aboriginal people, who call these unemployment payments 'sit down money' and in many cases believe that the Government makes this payment because it does not wish people to work, has the Government considered removing this type of payment and in lieu thereof making payments to allow employment on Aboriginal community projects for the benefit of the community? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I have been advised by Timorese citizens now in Darwin that there are numerous women and children in Timor who have lost their husbands and fathers in the present Timor debacle. What is the Government's attitude to the possibility of absorbing some of these unfortunate Timorese people into the Australian community? Many of these Timorese are reported to be on the poverty line. Has the Government made any move to indicate that it is prepared to accept further Timorese evacuees? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What action does the Government contemplate taking to bring assistance to those people suffering from the ravages of alcoholism in the Northern Territory. 
Will facilities be set up to assist these people by the use of detoxification units and overnight shelters. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. The statement relating to assistance for May school holiday child care projects being funded through the Interim Committee of the Children's Commission has been circulated by the Minister. As all projects are being carried out within the various States and not the Territories, what plans, if any, exist for children in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Are many of Darwin's residents Public Servants, and do quite a number of them have no adequate housing since Cyclone Tracy. 
What is the present position in regard to the waiting list for housing in Darwin. 
Is priority housing to be provided for, so called, executives. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Will the Minister inform the Senate when the new prison at Berrimah is likely to be ready for use, and what arrangements are being made for persons at present undergoing prison sentences in Darwin. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
What is the availability in the Northern Territory of noninstitutional services for the treatment of offenders such as (a) probation, (b) parole, (c) work release, (d) periodicdetention, and (e) any other modern alternatives, to institutional treatment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What special conditions of confinement apply to persons being held on remand in the Northern Territory at the present time. 
When are the conditions likely to be improved if the conditions in the Northern Territory are not in accordance with the standard minimum rules. 
At this hour of the night I feel that I must apologise for having to speak. This evening matters have been drawn out to quite an extent, particularly with the debate on the attack on  Sir Shane  Paltridge. My only feeling on that matter is that politics in Australia has reached a very low ebb when we see this type of action taken. I, and I think every other senator, feel that tonight our regrets surely must go to the widow of  Sir Shane  Paltridge in her retirement and to his family. In the last 2 days they must have gone through agony. 
In the last few weeks in various sectors of the media- the Press, television and so on- various attacks have been made on various people in the Northern Territory, It is because these people in the Northern Territory do not have the ability to stand up and defend themselves that I, even at this late hour of the night and because the Senate is rising early tomorrow, must take some time to answer these charges. In answering these charges, I will trace as briefly and as quickly as I can Aboriginal land history in the Northern Territory. This is something which has been very dear to my heart. It is essential, when one looks at the  Bulletin  and other pubications in the last few weeks, that some explanation be given. 
I go back to August 1964 when the Northern Territory Legislative Council appointed a sessional committee on Aboriginal integration. In the Legislative Council on that day in 1964 I moved that a sessional committee on integration be appointed to inquire into and from time to time to report and make recommendations concerning the operation and effectiveness of the Social Welfare Ordinance 1964 and related legislation in practice. This sessional committee which I had set up in those days- some 12 years ago now- was designed to ensure that all legislation in the Territory discriminatory towards Aborigines was removed. The actions that we took in those days were somewhat novel. Today many people in Australia are taking an interest in Aborigines and in land rights but 12 years ago the actions we took then on behalf of the Aborigines of the Northern Territory were somewhat novel inasmuch as not very much similar legislation was being enacted by the Australian Government and by the States. This Committee of Integration sat on numerous occasions during 1964 and 1965. 
It is not my wish to take up much time but I wanted to give to the Senate the feelings and expressions of members in those days towards Aboriginals. The first and second reports were brief because of the short time that had elapsed since the social welfare legislation had come into effect and there was little time to gauge the actual workings of the legislation. The third report said that there appeared to be an increase in the number of Aborigines charged in the courts with offences associated with drinking. In the same report the Committee noted that no legislation had yet been introduced to make provision for the fixing of wage rates for Aborigines. It said: 
The only possible bar to the application of other nondiscriminatory awards to Aboriginal employment is the Wards' Employment Ordinance although it is doubtful whether that Ordinance can prevail over the terms of an award of the Commission. But in order that the matter be put beyond any doubt your Committee recommends that the Wards' Employment Ordinance be amended to provide specifically that it has no application to persons employed in an industry with respect to which an award of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission applies where the award does not exempt the employment of Aborigines from its provisions. 
The next clause of the report stated: 
While the matters already referred to are receiving the attention of various authorities, this Committee has devoted particular attention to a system of land tenure of lands on reserves for Aborigines. 
I would say that this was probably one of the first moves that had been taken in regard to land tenure for Aboriginal people. 
I was the  Chairman.  There was a very good friend of mine,  Mr Fred  Drysdale, who was the member for Nightcliff in the Legislative Council,  Mr Ron  Withnall, who was then the Crown Law Officer, and 2 other members whose names escape me. The principles that were expressed in those days were set out in the report as follows: 
The existence of reserves without provision made for the use and enjoyment of the land in any complete way is anomalous. It is no more than a setting aside of land without the grant of any benefit to any Aboriginal except the bare right to be upon the land. It emphasises the former view taken of the Aboriginal that he was no more than a nomadic hunter and should be permitted to remain as such. That this policy as to reserves should remain side by side with the more enlightened policy which is expressed in the Social Welfare legislation is, to say the least of it, incongruous. 
Your Committee, in expressing these opinions, should not be taken as offering criticism of the Government in this field but your Committee is sensible that there had been laid on it the task of examining the legislation and recommending amending or supplementary legislation. It is in discharge of this task that this section of the report is made. 
An Aboriginal, in common with all peoples, recognised that his only means of subsistence lay in the land and that particular rights to the use of land should be recognised and controlled. 
It was largely agreed by witnesses before the Committee who had experience and knowledge in this field that although to the Aboriginal land as such had no significance each community or group had rights to the use of the animals and fruits which existed on certain ill-defined but actually bounded land. It would appear from the evidence that sometimes within the community individuals or groups had a relationship with particular land in respect of which they owed a responsibility towards the other members of the community. 
The report continued: 
The settlement of Australia by European people, in every case, represented intrusion upon this system whereby land and rights in land were parcelled out between communities and individuals. The depasturing of sheep and cattle, later agriculture, mining, the fencing of boundaries and the construction of roads all represented such a serious interference with the former rights in land which the Aboriginal had enjoyed that his livelihood was inevitably threatened; and quite often he was reduced to a beggarly subsistence depending upon the charity of the European which was derived from the very land from which he had been excluded. The Commonwealth Government is to be congratulated for its action in preventing this result at least in the substantial part of the Northern Territory represented by Aboriginal Reserves. 
Reserves occupy one-fifth of the land area of the Northern Territory, about 100 000 square miles. The report continued: 
But the longer term effects of the European annexation of land are more serious than the more obvious and immediate effect of the removal of means of subsistence; for a landless people are apt to lack direction and any economic impetus. 
This was the feeling of members of the Legislative Council some 12 years ago. Following that report they then introduced into the Legislative Council an ordinance to make provision for the granting to Aborigines of leases of land which had been reserved for the use and benefit of 
Aborigines and for purposes connected therewith. It is to be noted that on 9 August 1966 the Aboriginal Land Titles Bill was introduced into the Legislative Council and read a first time. 
This was in the period when we had 6 nominated people, 8 elected people and 3 non-official people on the Council. The citizens of the Northern Territory had 1 1 people on the Council, with 6 nominated people. However, assent by the Government was necessary, and still is, in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. So the Crown Lands Bill, a Government Bill of 1967, was then introduced and passed with the assistance of my Committee and my fellow representatives on the Legislative Council. In amending the Crown Lands ordinance this Bill achieved a similar result to what we were trying to achieve, but when the Bill was finally passed with amendments in August 1968 it dealt with titles to land on reserves and on its passage and assent more than 40 titles were granted. This was the first time that Aboriginal people could make application for land in the Northern Territory. Though I have not the records before me, it is my understanding that in those days there were more than 100 applications for land and some 67 applications were successful. 
In those days Aboriginal people were given land for cattle raising. I have seen a very successful co-operative between the Daly River and Port Keats. The Aboriginal people there are to be congratulated. It is a success. I have seen leases on reserves, Maningrida and others, that were available for business, housing and so on. At this time, to ensure that the Aboriginal people had a say in the allocation of their land within the Crown Lands Ordinance Part IV, I think it was, provided for the establishment of the Aboriginal Lands Board. The Aboriginal Lands Board included officials of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and other people who had particular interest in the Aboriginal people and in particular areas. Aboriginal people themselves were on the board to ensure that the representations, the applications and the evidence to the Board were properly evaluated and understood. So this was quite a successful period. 
The next move was in 1967 when a referendum was held to test the views of the Australian electorate on counting Aboriginals in the census and on removing words from section 51 of the Constitution which were discriminatory against Aborigines. The referendum proposal was carried convincingly. Territorians, regardless of colour, could not vote and still cannot vote. From 1967, until the Whitlam Government came to power in late 1972, Aboriginal matters, including land matters, were administered by the Department of Territories and the Department of the Interior. An Office of Aboriginal Affairs was created in 1968. In December 1972 the Department of Aboriginal Affairs was created by the Whitlam-Barnard ministry.  Mr Dexter  was appointed permanent head and Judge Woodward was appointed royal commissioner on land rights. The operation of Part 3a of our Crown Lands Ordinance- when I say 'our' I mean the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly- was administratively suspended by Labor. What that did at that time was to cut off all applications that were before the Aboriginal Lands Board for the granting of leases on Aboriginal reserves in the Northern Territory. From that time, 1973, when we were beginning to bring in a system of allocation of land to Aboriginal people, no land has been allocated despite the fact that the legislation that was enacted so many years ago is still on the books of the Legislative Assembly. 
Late in 1975 Labor introduced the Aboriginal Lands (Northern Territory) Bill without any prior consultation with the Northern Territory community or the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and without copies of the Bill being made available in the Northern Territory for perusal, discussion and comment. However, what the Legislative Assembly did do thenmost people do not seem to know this- was to form a committee of the Legislative Assembly which went to as many Aboriginal settlements and areas in the Northern Territory as possible to discuss the matter with them. So there was consultation at that level. 
I am cutting my speech short,  Mr President,  but the point that I am making tonight is that despite the allegations that have been made against the people of the Northern Territory that some of them are white stirrers set on spreading propaganda, that is far from the case. The people of the Northern Territory, particularly the members of the Legislative Assembly, have a real interest in the Aboriginal people. What the people of the Northern Territory want is for the people there, regardless of where they are, whether they are wielding a pen or preparing television programs to become members of a biracial community. In this bi-racial community there has to be room for co-existence. I say coexistence because the Aboriginal people are a proud people. Years ago, back in the early 1960s when I was a member of the Legislative Council, I used to use the term 'integration'. Integration cannot and never will be. Integration implies that the white race is going to absorb the Aboriginal people and that is not going to be the case. The Northern Territory is going to be a bi-racial territory, eventually a State I hope, with people, regardless of colour, living alongside each other in a state of co-existence. The Aboriginal people have dignity and the people of the Northern Territory realise that. 
I would like to refer very briefly in closing to a part of my speech in the debate on the AddressinReply to the Speech of the Governor-General. I said:   . . in the  implemention  of Aboriginal policies we must be careful to distinguish between the more traditional Aborigines, whose self-identity has been culturally shaped and formed, and those Aborigines whose self-identity has been culturally shaped and formed, and those whose selfidentity has been largely formed on the basis of colour . . . The latter for  political  reasons, have tried to project the image that Aborigines are a homogeneous race- a fact which is vigorously disputed by the 'cultural' Aborigines. For them, an Aboriginal is one who knows the Aboriginal law. Thus for them aboriginality has nothing to do with colour. Both of these groups have needs and aspirations which differ and therefore policy initiatives aimed at helping them must also be differentiated. 
Whilst it has been said of me in the Press in some places that I am returning to the old theme of land rights, radical racial minorities and all of those sorts of things, that is far from right. What I am saying here is that we must recognise that we have in the Northern Territory a different type of Aboriginal. The part-Aboriginal person is this person who is much more sophisticated and he has as much right as anybody else to be assisted in relation to his land rights and so on. But at the same time one must recognise the existence of the cultural Aboriginal. The cultural Aboriginal person must not be smothered. He is a dignified Aboriginal person. He is a person who will always remain in the Northern Territory. He is a person who is ultimately going to be heard, but he must be given time. 
Since 1973 things have gone very amiss in the Northern Territory. In the fourth report of the Sessional Committee on Integration, which was tabled in November 1 967, it was stated: 
Your Committee found that there were numbers of Aboriginals living in primitive and insanitary conditions in Alice Springs and Katherine and to a lesser extent in other centres of population. This is a problem which in the opinion of your Committee should be given urgent attention by the Government. Your Committee was disturbed at the lack of progress in the improvement of the social, moral and health standards existing in these communities of Aboriginal fringe dwellers. 
Health standards have certainly improved now. It continues: 
Your Committee has previously indicated its belief that some easily acquired form of land tenure on Aboriginal reserves will bring about the development of towns where the Aboriginal people will for some time be free to establish their own social organisations which will be strong enough to persist notwithstanding a later influx of Europeans. Instances of a present tendency in this direction amongst Aboriginals are to be found in the attitudes of the people of  Goulburne  Island, Wattie Creek and in the new settlement at Elliott. 
In Katherine a fluctuating population sometimes reaching quite a significant number are camped on the banks of the Katherine River in conditions of abject squalor and the danger to the community from an outbreak of any of a number of contagious diseases must be high. It is socially and morally degrading to all sections of the community to have any groups living within its boundaries under such conditions. 
This report was presented many years ago- in 1967. It is now 1976. 1 can assure you,  Mr President,  that very little has been done in the meantime. I put that down to several things. Firstly, I would think that it was because of the indifference of government to a degree in those days. Bureaucratic strangling certainly has continued to bring about this situation. So no land is being granted to the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory although the law exists to enable land to be granted to them. Very little has been done for the Aboriginal people who are fringe dwellers in the towns. As an example of that, in Alice Springs there has been general agreement between the community, the municipal council and all interested people, including the Aborigines, because consultation has taken place about areas of land to be put aside where the Aborigines can camp and for the development of their housing associations and cooperatives, but nothing has happened. This week I have been to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and to the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann). Mr Adermann  has assured me that he will do his utmost with the Department of the Northern Territory and will take firm action to bring about some result. 
I leave the debate at that point. It is 1 a.m. and I will take up the matter further at some later date. The purpose of this brief talk tonight has been to assure people that reports appearing in some of our southern newspapers are biased and incorrect. As I have said before, the Legislative Assembly and the people of the Northern Territory have much sympathy for the Aboriginal people. Much is going on now between the 2 races in the community. The media accuses us of stirring. If the media did less stirring and gave more assistance perhaps there would be a more settled situation and, with some Government assistance, we could overcome our problems. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Will the Minister advise whether early steps are to be taken to form a consultative committee of the Children's Commission in the Northern Territory, in line with those in the States of Australia? If so, will resources for child care services be made available for such a committee in the Northern Territory. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. I understand that the Department of the Northern Territory on 18 December 1975 advised the Moslem community in Darwin that a block of land in Vanderlin Drive, Casuarina- blocks 6257 and 6258- was to be made available for a mosque. I further understand now that the Government of Arabia has agreed to assist the Moslem communities in Australia by providing finance, that it has in the last 2 weeks investigated the situation in Darwin and has agreed to assist the Moslem community there. I understand that there may be some difficulty in the allocation of that land. Will the Minister take up this matter with the Minister for the Northern Territory to ensure that the Moslem community in Darwin is given that parcel of land as quickly as possible. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I have received representations from Timorese refugees now residing in Darwin who wish to make arrangements for relatives and friends to leave Timor and take refuge in Darwin. The Timorese in Darwin are prepared to finance air or sea charter arrangements. In view of the reported poor circumstances of people living in Timor, will the Government give urgent consideration to allowing arrangements to be made with authorities in Timor to permit the transfer of Timorese, particularly women and children, to the mainland of Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and refers to a recent article in the  Canberra Times  relating to InterScan. Is it a fact that this Australian designed all-weather landing system might be adopted internationally with great financial return to this country, or is Australia losing the race to an American system? 
I present the following petition from 103 citizens of the Northern Territory: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the re-aligning of the Stuart Highway at Pine Creek in the Northern Territory as recommended to, and confirmed by Parliament will bring financial hardship to Pine Creek particularly from the Tourist trade as the proposed route by-passes the township. 
Your petitioners must humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should- As it can be shown that a realignment of the Stuart Highway on the western perimeter of Pine Creek township is of no extra cost in the overall project, and that this alignment would meet the specifications of the National Australian Highway code, the Federal Government is respectfully requested to review the siting of the Stuart Highway at Pine Creek, Northern Territory. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. As the Government has indicated its intention for economic reasons to close down the Commonwealth rail link between Darwin and Larrimah in the Northern Territory, and as some 200 or more employees will have to be reestablished elsewhere, probably interstate, will the Government assist these employees, as for the majority of them the Northern Territory is their home, by giving them assistance in finding employment in other government departments in the area or by giving them sufficient time to reestablish themselves outside the employ of the Government? As housing is at a premium in the Northern Territory will the Government allow these employees to remain in their own homes until they find other accommodation? Will the Government keep all rolling stock and equipment in the Darwin-Larrimah area for use, if required in the future, in reactivating the line for use by industries developing the top end of the Northern Territory? 
The purpose of this financial statement and the moves made by the Government at this stage is to bring about financial control and stability to Australia. In 1971 inflation was running at a minor degree but in 1973, because of the irresponsible over-expenditure of the Labor Government, inflation stampeded. In this period it has been said that the country has had an overexpenditure of some $5 billion- something that the taxpayers of Australia cannot afford. It is very timely that the Fraser Government has had the courage to make financial cuts to bring about stability. 
What has happened in the last few years since 1973? We have heard much from the other side about the effect on the people of Australia. Inflation has meant increased prices and increased wages. The family man, the working man, has found that his wage cannot buy the goods that it used to buy. So he has pressed for additional wages. We have seen the cat chasing the tail for the last few years. Workers have asked for more money. They have got more money, but because the workers have moved into a higher income bracket, most of that money has been taken by the Government. What has this meant to the family? It has meant that the more money it has earned the more tax the Government has taken and less money has gone into the family pocket. This has meant hardship for the Australian worker. In many cases it was found that one income in the family was insufficient. So the wife went to work and there has been this continuing chasing of sufficient money to keep the family going. In many thousands of cases this has meant tensions and pressures within the family. There have been breakdowns in families. In many cases we have seen not only a breakdown between the husband and the wife but also the effects of these tensions and pressures on the children. 
In the last few years the worker of Australia has gone from hardship to hardship. This overexpenditure which caused inflation has been carried out without any apparent responsible action by government. It is my belief that there are many people in the Australian Labor Party- I do not say all- whose intention it is to do their utmost to break down the economic structure of Australia. It has been said in many places that their aim is to bring the financial structure of the country into chaos. What would happen if this country were brought into a state of chaos- and we were well on the way? Our way of life, the Australian character, private enterprise would be destroyed. Out of those ruins would come about a type of life that we do not want. There is a type of socialism rampant in the world today. I again suggest that until this Government came to office we were well on the way to joining that type of socialism. As I have said before, it has been most hurtful to the people of Australia. 
The honourable senator talks about cash flow. Perhaps I should refer to the Northern Territory, with which I am very familiar, for a few minutes. I will talk about cash flows and what Labor policy did to the Northern Territory from 1973. 
When Labor came to power I say that there was a deliberate policy to forget the people of the outback and to pander to people in areas of mass population. Immediately Labor came to power it set up the Coombs Task Force to inquire into what cuts and savings could be made in Australia. A lot of those cuts were directed at the minority people, the people of the outback. 
We will look at the financial situation. First of all the Labor Party gave away the principle that people in the outback had the right to live like people on the Australian seaboard. The Labor Party took away that right. It did so in the first place by taking away assistance given to reduce the cost of food items and materials in the outback. It took away freight assistance, and it took away the fuel equalisation scheme under which people of the outback of Australia paid 3c more for fuel than people on the seaboard. What was achieved by taking away the fuel equalisation scheme? The price of fuel in the Northern Territory has gone up. The highest figure that I know at present is $1.20 a gallon. 
-Something will be done when finances are brought into correct proportion. This has affected the working people, the Aboriginal people, the community generally in the Northern Territory. It has affected the industries of the Northern Territory. The pastoral industry is affected because of the high costs. Admittedly, to a degree there is a lack of markets. 
-But the markets are coming good now,  Senator. A  lot of producers will not recover. A lot will go under because of the high maintenance costs which exist now. The costs of materials, fuel and all such things are forcing the producers out of business. 
Tourism is another industry in the outback of Australia. Many people are very reliant on the tourist industry. It received a body blow several years ago when the Labor Party brought in its cost recovery policy which to quite an extent is directed at the people of the outback. Transport is necessary for the people of the outback. The cost recovery policy has almost priced tourism in the outback out of any semblance of competition with other places. I refer now to mining. We note the costs that have been brought about by the irresponsible Labor Government in taking notice of the Coombs report. Once again fuel prices have gone up and rail prices have gone up. In the last 2 days we saw that the Northern Australia railway is going to be closed because it can no longer be an economic proposition. Do honourable senators know why this has happened? Labor's cost recovery policy resulted in freight rates being increased to such an extent on the Larrimah-Darwin line that the viable mining industry at Francis Creek was forced out of production. It made mining for the company uneconomic. Why should the company continue? 
The honourable member asks why we do not reverse the policy. The first thing this Government has to do is bring about financial stability. I expect that, if Australians co-operate in the plan that has been put before them now, in the next year there will be financial restrictions, but after that there will be an easing and Australia will be back on its feet again. 
-Acually this is quite realistic thinking, provided the Government is given a go. Once again I just quote the Northern Territory scene. The cash restrictions and the financial restrictions did not happen when this Government came to power. They happened last year, when I was a member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I was able to oversee the preparation of estimates and the problems that departments had. In July-August last year there was insufficient money for civil works programs. So the departments were asked to make various cuts to save money, which they did. 
This happened in July-August. By then the damage had been done. Damage had been done to Aboriginal people because the money for the Aboriginal councils on the various settlements had been cut off, despite the fact that they had been promised money. I have some sympathy for  Senator Cavanagh  because, as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, he was brought into a situation that was extremely difficult.  His  predecessor went mad with the money. He had absolutely no idea of what money was all about. He thought he was Father Christmas. He was producing the cargo cult in Australia. Everybody sat down, opened his mouth and waited for the next handout. The system absolutely collapsed.  Senator Cavanagh  was asked to come in to straighten out the situation. I must admit that he did his best. 
We heard much tonight from  Senator Keeffe,  the shadow Minister for the Northern Territory. He appeared to be knowledgeable. If he is not knowledgeable, I would say he is misleading the people of Australia. Admittedly there are cuts in the Aboriginal field, but the cuts ultimately will be to the benefit of the Aboriginal people. Under the previous Government, over $100m was allocated to the Aboriginal people for various things- education, housing, improvements in settlements and so on. The Government said: We have given $100m-odd to the Aboriginal people'. It was flag-waving. I do not know that it really worried about how that money was spent. 
-It did not produce a lot of houses. I shall lead on to that matter. That is why the Hay investigation has come about. I think something like $6.4m was allocated for Aboriginal housing. There was practically no benefit to the Aboriginal people. There was no guidance, no assistance. This money was frittered away, with the result that now Aboriginal people have very little housing. 
That is a moot point. Whose friends were they? If the Labor Government was not prepared to oversee the expenditure of this money and if it allowed this money to be wasted in various ways, whose friends got it? I suggest that if any friendship is tied up in this sort of deal it should be tied to the Labor Party. If not, why did not the Labor Government take action to ensure that this money was not wasted? The result is that now Aboriginal people are suffering. Some houses have cost $60,000 and $65,000. This money was spent in various places. There was not any benefit to the Aboriginal people. There was no employment. They were not allowed to participate. Very few houses have been built. So it is only right that this Hay investigation take place. 
Very few houses have been built. The Hay report will show a very sorry story. After that story is told, action will be taken by the Government to put the matter on the road again. I hope money will continue to flow. Some money is flowing this year for Aboriginal housing. I hope that the amount will be increased. Aboriginal people will be able to participate in their own housing programs, instead of the contractors doing it without there being any benefit to the Aboriginal people. This housing program by the Abonginal people will mean more employment for Aboriginal people. As no money has trickled into the Aboriginal community, Aborigines have had to sit down and watch these houses being built in their communities. Admittedly, in some places there was a reasonable program, but overall there was a collapse. It meant no work for the Aboriginal people. So they have been paid unemployment benefit- sit down money, as they call it. 
They have not been sacked. Money is flowing through. I am talking about the lack of opportunities for Aboriginal employment as a result of this $10Om being poured in. It has resulted in tremendous waste and no advantage to the Aboriginal people. 
Hopefully, that will survive. That is in tremendous difficulties at the moment. 
What has been the effect of the Government's measures on the North Territory? Since last year there has been considerable difficulty in the building trade. There has been a further allocation of money recently to the Darwin Reconstruction Commission and through the home finance scheme. That funding has meant a reasonable amount of money flowing into Darwin. The Minister for the Northern Territory (  Mr Adermann)  has stated that in next year's Budget the amount of money will be increased. I am not minimising the problems. The building industry is in difficulties. It is in difficulties for various reasons. One of the reasons is that the Northern Territory has not any State-like structure which can act as a buffer against situations such as the one we are facing now. The Northern Territory, in its present stage of growth, is too dependent on the Federal Government. I am not minimising the problems in the Northern Territory. 
Debate interrupted. 
I  present the following petition from 2 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the  President  and the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that many Australians are concerned at the announced decision by the Commonwealth Government to reduce the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote by $21m and by the abolition of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
We your petitioners do therefore humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
. As a matter of urgency, reverse the decision to cut the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote so as to ensure that the full amount appropriated by Parliament for Overseas Development Assistance is spent this financial year to meet the pressing needs of those in the developing countries; 
Reaffirm Australia's commitment of Overseas Development Assistance being a minimum of 0.7 per cent of GNP; and 
Establish a fully independent statutory authority to administer Australia's official Overseas Development Assistance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. This morning the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the newspapers reported that Aboriginal land rights legislation had been introduced into the House of Representatives. Is that correct? If not, what is the present situation in regard to the legislation? 
I rise to support the previous  speaker, Senator Baume,  and to make a few brief remarks in relation to the salaries of medical staff, particularly nursing sisters in the Northern Territory. I support what  Senator Baume  has said. This aggravating and annoying situation has been going on for years in the Northern Territory. Salaries, particularly of nurses and sisters, are below the level in other States. This also relates to the salaries of professional staff. The result is that the Northern Territory is always looking for staff. In fact there have been many campaigns in this last year to try to bring more sisters to the Territory. The low salaries have aggravated the difficulties of medical services in the Northern Territory with the result that in some areas wards have had to close down. I have inspected them myself. 
I could go on at length dealing with this situation. I know that  Dr Gurd,  who is the Director of Health in the Northern Territory, has on many occasions approached the Government and the Commonwealth Public Service Board. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  appreciates the situation. I understand that after these long protracted submissions to the Commonwealth Public Service Board the matter is now in the hands of an arbitrator. I hope that in the next few weeks a decision will be made to pay adequate salaries to the nurses and other professional staff in the Northern Territory. I am sure that when adequate salaries are paid many of the health facilities in the Northern Territory will alter. Perhaps we will be able to get specialists to come to the Northern Territory to look after the people there, whether Aboriginal or white. The Northern Territory at the moment is sadly lacking in professional people. 
I want to make some brief comments in regard to the estimates that were considered by Estimates Committee F. My comments relate, in the first place, to the Northern Territory. I notice from the evidence that was given to the Committee that there had to be some savings to assist in finding extra finance for expenditure in the Northern Territory. While the Committee members were not in a position to debate the savings, where they had been made was indicated clearly. They came from various parts of this year's vote for the Northern Territory- local government, general welfare, transport and many other items. It is unfortunate, when there is such a huge increase in the expenditure and the finance required, that the money provided is taken up mainly in increases in wages, increases in salaries and increased appropriations to the postal authorities for telexes, telegrams, telephones, etc. I believe that the Northern Territory has suffered somewhat because of this. 
It is fortunate that in the proposed additional expenditure an extra $ 13m is being allocated to the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, Of course, this is a rise and fall matter. Because of increases in costs that have taken place throughout the year, some $ 13m was required to enable the DRC to carry out its projects for this year. This money was made available by the Government earlier in the year. Also in the home finance scheme there was a shortage of funds for various reasons, including the extra demand from the people of Darwin either to rebuild homes or to build new homes. Extra finance was required. After a somewhat difficult period in the early part of this year, funds were made available so that the projects could continue. I think we can anticipate now that there will be some 550 homes- possibly up to 700 or 800 homes- for which finance will be required in the future. It has been indicated that applications for finance for homes can be processed up until 1980. This means that anyone who wishes to have financial assistance to rebuild a home in Darwin must make application by the end of this calendar year. They can then draw on the funds up until 1980. 1 think that this has been of great benefit to the people of Darwin. 
However, because of various savings made in the Territory, the civil works programs have suffered. This has caused some hardship and has been detrimental to the Territory. I hope that we will see civil works programs released for the Northern Territory in the near future. In fact, it is no secret that I have approached the Government on many occasions, asking that civil works programs be released. No matter what happens now in the release of those contracts, no expenditure can take place in this financial year. One must realise that the Northern Territory is entirely dependent upon the Federal Government. We do not have a State-like structure or a buffer structure as the States have. As we are entirely dependent on government for finance, any cut by government has immediate effects in the Territory. I think that approximately 85 per cent of projects in the Northern Territory are undertaken from government finance and 15 per cent from the private sector. The position is slightly out of balance. 
I notice further on in the vote for the Northern Territory that some extra funds had to be provided for the Police Force. This is because of the recent changeover. The Police Force once came within the responsibility of the Department of the Interior. It was transferred to the AttorneyGeneral's Department. It then went from the Attorney-General's Department to the Department of Police and Customs. Now, under the latest arrangement, with the setting up of a portfolio of Minister for the Northern Territory, the control of the Police Force will revert from the Department of Police and Customs to the Northern Territory portfolio. So extra funds are required. Despite this- this could be taken as a criticism- the fact remains that over the years the Northern Territory Police Force has lacked sufficient funds and equipment. I must say that it was rather ironical for me, as a member of a Senate Estimates committee for the first time, to observe the position in regard to the Australian Capital Territory Police Force. The same Committee dealt with the estimates for the departments responsible for both police forces. In the Northern Territory there is one police boat. That is situated in Darwin and has to do many things. In the Australian Capital Territory there are 7 police boats. I think this is an odd situation that there should be more police boats on Lake Burley Griffin than on the northern coastline of Australia. 
I was concerned to see the additional funds that were required in relation to one section of the Australian Capital Territory. The amount of $400,000 was required this year under division 210.3.10 which relates to the Transport Trust Account. I agree with the statement in paragraph 3 (b) (iv) of the report by the  Chairman  of Estimates Committee F, in which he referred to: 
The alarming fact that timetables proposed to ensure economies in the bus service were not able to be implemented because of 'union interference' and resulted in a loss of savings of $600,000 in a full year. 
In effect, the vote of $400,000 had to be made available by the Government to offset this loss which resulted, as has been plainly indicated by the officials, from union interference. The  Chairman  also pointed out that the Australia 75 Festival held in the Australian Capital Territory also incurred a loss. To my mind, the evidence shows that there was a lack of control and negligence in the arranging and running of that Festival. 
I support the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill and the legislation to set up the National Cattle Disease Eradication Trust Account. As has been said by many speakers, quite a lot of action has taken place throughout Australia in the last few years on the eradication of tuberculosis and brucellosis. However, despite the fact that the Government is very aware that the eradication of brucellosis is most necessary and although we saw Government action to take away the export levy some weeks ago and now the setting up of a Trust Account to pay for the eradication through slaughtering fees, I feel that Australia is in a very dangerous and possibly crucial situation with regard to brucellosis. The reports from the Industries Assistance Commission on beef and on brucellosis and tuberculosis spell out very clearly that if we are not aware of or do not heed the recommendations that have been given, Australia in a few years time could be in a much more serious situation than we consider we are in now. 
In the present situation we have the pastoral industry in very dire straits. This has been brought about mainly through lack of markets in Europe, Japan, America and other countries. At the same time as this lack of markets has occurred we have seen in some areas of Australia extremely good conditions with the result that there has been quite a big build-up of stock. The situation to my mind is very crucial now. It is crucial because of the economic situation that the pastoral industry is in. I will speak on the Northern Territory as that is the area of which I have more knowledge than of other parts of Australia, although I realise that in some States the incidence of brucellosis is quite high. In the Northern Territory there has been quite an active brucellosis eradication scheme for a considerable time with the result that we now could say that in the top end of Australia some areas are more or less provisionally brucellosis free, although admittedly there are some pockets. Coming down through the Territory there are other areas in which there is more brucellosis than one would like to see. 
However, while the Government, whether it be the Federal Government itself or the Department of the Northern Territory which is responsible for the Northern Territory and eradication there, has provided funds and as a result there has been considerable activity, the danger that exists now in the Northern Territory, as I have said before, is poverty within the industry. When I say 'poverty' I really mean poverty because there are many stations in the Northern Territory that are on the brink of bankruptcy. No longer do we look upon a person who owns a pastoral lease as a cattle king. He is an unfortunate person with whom disaster has caught up for many reasons. In the Northern Territory now there are many cattle leases that have caretaker managers. As the term 'caretaker manager' implies, the rest of the staff on the station has gone, employees are practically nil and this caretaker manager sits at the station with possibly the owner or some other person doing a bore run. 
The maintenance, the good housekeeping, of the station has gone and as a result of this poor housekeeping, which has been forced on the owner, there is no stock or herd management. One can see that if there is no stock or herd management, although the Government has allocated funds for the eradication of brucellosis, the cattle owner, the person who should be mustering, is in no position to implement an eradication program. In fact, in the Northern Territory, and no doubt in Queensland and Western Australia too, the days of good handling and mustering of herds have gone by. They have gone by for very many reasons. For example, while there is a lack of markets the costs that I have described on other occasions have caught up with the pastoral lessee. To take cattle out of the Northern Territory to market costs some $30 to $34 a head and when one looks at the market prices these days one can easily imagine the situation which occurred last year on some occasions when the owner of cattle had to send a cheque to make up the difference between the market price and the cost of getting the cattle to market. In addition we have had increases in the price of fuel and labour. 
The warning I give to government is this: While the Government is prepared to substantially assist in the eradication of brucellosis, it must look on the other side to the producer and assist him to get back once again into the way of good housekeeping on his station. I suggest that the Government should look further at the various recommendations made in the IAC report on beef. The meat export charge has been suspended. That is good and I will give an instance in a minute or two of how it will have some effect on the Territory. However, it is most desirable, as was recommended, that there should be a regular review of the carry on requirements of beef cattle producers. We should consider also the desirability of a reference on long term assistance for the beef industry. At the moment, possibly as a result of IAC recommendations, there are short term interim payments, carry-on finance, but in the Territory this amounts to some $ 1 5,000 and is only a drop in the ocean in terms of what is required. At the same time rural reconstruction has been carried on to a degree and one sees now that, as was announced last week, $65,000 is to be made available to the end of this financial year. Admittedly that is only 4 to 5 weeks away. 
Rural reconstruction is a word given to an endeavour to reconstruct the debts of a pastoral lease because over the years the lessee has got himself into a lot of difficulty. He has borrowed money from the stock agent and, as we know, some of those interest rates can go to 14 per cent. One could imagine that if one borrowed some $40,000 to $50,000 or morethere are many with heavier overdrafts than that -and was paying 12 per cent to 13 per cent interest and was not producing at all so nothing was coming in, not gradually but very quickly one would be getting further into the red. Then if the Government comes along and helps to a degree with short term finance and one also goes to the bank for finance, one would finish up with something like 2, 3 or 4 mortgages. So to my mind rural reconstruction is the ability to reconstruct a debt on a pastoral lease to enable the producer to continue. 
It is a good idea. 
I think I made the point a little while ago that when I am talking of the pastoral owner and the pastoral lease I am not speaking in terms of cattle kings because this is not the day of cattle kings. I am talking about people in the Northern Territory but obviously there would be people in similar situations throughout Australia. These people are more or less small operators who have been battling on through the years. When there is a drought the prices are up and when seasons are good the prices are down and the producers cannot get rid of their cattle. So we are talking these days of people who used to be looked upon as the richthe cattle kings- but who are now in a difficult situation. Let us not dwell on that too long. Let us look at the effect upon Australia. 
There is no doubt that whilst our pastoral industry is in poor shape now, the time is going to come when we are going to be extremely reliant upon it. Once again the various countries of the world, be it Europe, Japan or America are going to be markets for our products. But there is a real danger that when this demand picks up again and these countries want to see a flow of beef in their direction we will not be in a situation to send beef to them, not because we will not have beef but for the simple reason that we will have allowed our pastoral industry to get into a sick situation. As I say, it is getting into that situation now. 
We have not carried out a balanced eradication program to rid ourselves of brucellosis and we will find ourselves in a situation where other countries of the world will be brucellosis free and will not import cattle from Australia. I say that that will mean the ultimate collapse of our primary industry. So I think that there is every reason for us now, while we have time, to be aware of the situation. 
As previous speakers have said, already some States are free of brucellosis. Tasmania is free but New South Wales and Victoria have problems. Other places are free. But we must make a concerted effort throughout Australia to rid ourselves of this very big problem. Of course, people who live in Tasmania and in Western Australia, where they do not have this problem, perhaps do not see how serious the situation is. But the fact is that their cattle will not be sold overseas as having come from Western Australia or Tasmania. Their cattle will be labelled 'Australian beef. Even though those States might be free of brucellosis and other parts of Australia may not, beef exported from Western Australia and Tasmania will be exported under the same label as all other Australian beef. 
I am most keen to see assistance given to the pastoral industry. I am not talking about handouts. I do not think the pastoral industry wants handouts but I do think that if we are going to keep the industry going and to have it balanced so that it can participate in this eradication we will have to get them onto a financial basis. Not only do we have to reconstruct loans but we have to look also at abattoirs throughout Australia, whether they be inland or on the coast. We have to see why they are not viable. Probably most of them are not viable because they are outdated. 
They need to be upgraded and automated to keep down labour costs. I shall restate what I said on 1 7 March 1 976 during the debate on the Meat Export Charge Amendment Bill, when I indicated what it could mean to, say, the Northern Territory if we took away the beef export levy. I compared that levy with the slaughter fee of $ 1 a head that is now being introduced. My comments, which appear in  Hansard,  were as follows: 
I think that the Bill will assist to some degree. I shall give an indication of what it could mean to the Northern Territory beef producer. I think this comparison is accurate. It is a comparison taken over S years between the costs of a beef producer in the Northern Territory on the abolition of the meat export charge and on the forecast slaughter levy of $1. This is a comparison over the period 1969 to 1975. With the total turn off of 190 000 head of cattle, the estimated number for export would be 1 13 000. Taking the average bone-out weight of 300 lbs per beast, the export charge per head would have been $4.80. So on a basis of 1 per cent the total revenue would have been $546,000. 
That would have been the slaughter fee payable to the Government. I continued: 
Assuming that 119 000 cattle are slaughtered, with the levy at $ 1 per head the estimated saving to the Northern Territory producers per annum would be only $427,000. That amount would be spread out over the Territory. 
So one can see on making that sort of comparison that there would be a saving for the producer of a little under $500,000 over some 5 years and over 500 000 miles. I do not think that we should get particularly excited about that but nevertheless it is something that does assist the producer. 
Many people have pointed out the serious situation that is before us. I too lend my voice and urge the Government that once and for all we should have a very strong eradication program. It is all very well for governments to create funds for the eradication scheme. But the Government must now look at the other side and ensure that the people in private enterprise who are producing beef are able to participate in the scheme. If they cannot participate in the scheme they are going to go down- they are going to go bankrupt. I say that people in the Northern Territory are going to go bankrupt this year if they are not assisted. They do not want handouts. They want their debts reconstructed. If these stations were to go into bankruptcy and have a caretaker manager they would have a herd without management, a herd breeding without control, a herd on the loose. In that situation there would be absolutely no way of carrying out vaccinations and of eradicating brucellosis. The situation is serious. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. In view of the fact that the Bureau of Transport Economics has had tabled in the Senate a report entitled  Provision of General Cargo Facilities at the Port of Darwin,  will the Government indicate to the Senate what action is contemplated in regard to the report? Secondly, does the Government agree with the contents of the recommendations, and what is its intention with regard to options A, B, C and D, which list variations to the port of Darwin wharf facilities? Thirdly, as these wharfage facilities are outmoded and without land backed berths, which incidently the report considers are warranted economically will the Government take firm action to upgrade the port to cope with future cargo, whether it be for the development of Northern Territory industries or for defence? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Following the statement by the Government that it is its intention to close the north Australian rail link between Larrimah and Darwin, there has been much concern and speculation in the Northern Territory in regard to freight services, particularly because of further statements indicating that the Australian National Line may stop the vessel  Darwin Trader  from operating and bringing freight to Darwin from Perth and other Western Australian ports. Can the Minister indicate what is the true situation? Is it correct that no early decision will be made and that the  Darwin Trader  will continue to call at Darwin at regular intervals? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. The Australian Government has announced that it is now considering the extension of Australian territorial waters to 200 miles off the Australian coast. As this extra area of territorial waters is highly desirable in regard to the control of fishing, defence and other off-shore surveillance requirements and as our ships and aircraft are few in number and obviously re-equipping is required in order to carry out the Government's intention, what action is contemplated by the Government to build up an air and sea reconnaissance service, particularly in respect of our thousands of miles of northern coastline which has been neglected considerably in recent years? Will the Minister have a paper on the subject tabled in the Senate? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Are officers from the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, and the Department of Transport, to visit Alice Springs on 29 May 1976 to investigate the possible resiting of the rail head in conjunction with the new standard gauge link from Port Augusta to Alice Springs; if so, will the Minister ensure that the people of Alice Springs are kept well informed as to the present position of the inquiry and also ensure that reasonable notice be given by any person inquiring into the matter. 
What is the present position in regard to the planning ofthe new rail head and has any consideration been given to prior submissions to government. 
-My question to the Minister for Social Security is along the lines of  Senator Cavanagh's  question concerning funds for the Aboriginal special works scheme. In view of the recommendations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee in regard to funds for the Aboriginal special works project, will the Minister in liaison with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs give due regard to the recommendations rather than assist Aboriginal people through unemployment benefits and other assistance, except for giving these benefits in circumstances which are considered necessary? . 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Which Department or organisation will assume responsibility for the Australian Assistance Plan in the Northern Territory. 
Where will the staff, presently engaged on Australian Assistance Plan matters in the Northern Territory, be employed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
When will the conclusive report on the fate of the five Australian journalists killed in East Timor be presented to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister make any report of the consultants employed by the Department of the Northern Territory into the possible uses of the Commonage area in Alice Springs available to the public, including any recommendations. 
Will the Minister make officers of the Department of Town Planning available for public discussion on any such report. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What number of children are (a) enrolled, and (b) attend Aboriginal schools on each settlement and mission in the Northern Territory, in pre-school, primary school, and post primary classes. 
What has been (a) the overall enrolment each year, and ( b) the percentage attendance, for the past ten years. 
I present the following petition from 699 citizens of Darwin: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned residents of Darwin respectfully showeth: 
Whereas residents of Darwin whose homes were destroyed or damaged in the cyclone of December 1974 desire to rebuild their homes and the Government has promised to assist these endeavours by making available low-interest finance through the Home Finance Trustee, 
And whereas the Minister for the Northern Territory has now announced limitations on the amount of funds to be made available for the purpose this financial year which will unduly prolong the rebuilding of Darwin with consequent prolongation of the already lengthy period of living under deplorable conditions endured by many. 
Your petitioners therefore pray that the Senate will urge the Government to continue funding all applications for loans from the Home Finance Trustee as and when received to allow the rebuilding of homes to proceed without interruption during this year and successive financial years until the residents who suffered loss of accommodation in the cyclone are adequately housed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to  Senator Guilfoyle  in her capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. It was announced in the Budget that the Aboriginal Affairs vote is some $33m less than the 1975-76 allocation and that part of this cut is in the Aboriginal Housing Association area. The Budget further stated that the Hay report, which reviews the operation of housing associations, will be used to assess future needs for funds for Aboriginal housing. In the light of this review and of the fact that additional funds will be provided by government, will the Government table the Hay report or indicate whether the review of the Hay report has been completed? If the report has not been completed, will the Government indicate when it is anticipated that the report will be completed? Will the Government indicate whether action is to be taken in this financial year in the light of the report to reinstate a housing program and to finance it? If it is indicated in the Hay report that particular housing associations have operated satisfactorily, will these associations be encouraged to recommence operations forthwith? In the circumstances of the so-called fringe dwellers' in and around towns of Australia, and in particular in the Northern Territory, will priority be given to providing housing and camping facilities to alleviate the plight of these Aboriginal people who at present lack basic living requirements such as showers, toilets, laundries and shelter from the extremes of the Northern Territory climate? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. As Radio Australia, in the Cox Peninsula area of Darwin, was practically destroyed by cyclone Tracy some 20 months ago, what action has been taken to rebuild the aerials to enable Radio Australia once again to transmit to some SO million or 60 million people to the north in the Third World, where free communications in many cases have been totally blacked out or repressed? If it has been decided not to rebuild in the Darwin area, what site has been chosen and when is it expected that Radio Australia will once again ^transmit from a northern Australian site? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. I refer to the interdepartmental committee whose activities are to plan the development of a new village in the Ayers Rock area. Can the Minister advise when the Committee last met, whether it has made any recommendations and, if so, to whom? If the Committee has made recommendations, what action has the Government taken to develop the Ayers Rock area? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. What is the present position on the transfer of responsibilities from the Commonwealth Government to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly as recommended by the report of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory? When is it anticipated that the recently passed Northern Territory Administration Act will be proclaimed? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I understand that as a result of a collision between 2 aircraft at Sydney in 1971 a High Court judgment assigned 40 per cent of the responsibility for the collision to aircraft controllers. On this basis air traffic controllers are seeking a 75 per cent salary increase. Through the placing of restrictions on the movement of internal and overseas aircraft, air transport has been brought into chaos. Because of this action the Australian community is being held to ransom by these operators and there could be complete paralysis of air traffic. If this close down comes about, will the Government take action to provide the people in the outback, who are very dependent on air transport, with Royal Australian Air Force transport aircraft, to be based in the area, in order to continue to provide some semblance of transport for the carrying of mail, freight, papers and people who need to travel as a matter of urgency? 
I ask a question of  Senator Cotton  as Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is it not a fact that because of continuing strikes the Katherine abattoirs is unable to carry out the killing program as planned for this season and, because of this situation, the economic operation of the meat works could be in jeopardy? 
 The Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory will be aware that the wet season in northern Australia is rapidly approaching. Will he inform the Senate what progress has been made in housing the citizens of Darwin who were left homeless by cyclone Tracy? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. What is the present situation in regard to the review of the activities and the role of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee instigated by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs? If the review has been completed, will the document be made public? If not, will a public statement be made on the recommendations in the report? Is it a fact that fees and allowances have been substantially increased while the review has been taking place? 
It is with considerable relief that I stand here today to review the 1 976-77 Budget. It is a Budget which, after the chaotic state in which we lived less than 12 months ago, must give confidence and encouragement to the majority of Australians who wish for the  opprtunity  to return to a stable state of mind and living which was so abruptly taken away from them over the years 1973, 1974 and 1975 when spiralling inflation, like a cyclone, laid waste to Australia leaving it tottering on the brink of financial collapse. This could have meant that our free enterprise system which the majority of Australians wanted would possibly disappear. One can only stand appalled at the destruction to which this experiment in a social welfare state has led us. The damage which has been done to people and industry in Australia is almost too great to measure. Inflation which was running at a rate of some 18 per cent per annum- I understand that this was the third highest in the developing countries- has priced our products into so high a bracket that we are in danger of losing overseas sales and of losing markets, both in Australia and overseas. This is despite the fact that Australia is a veritable warehouse of primary products and minerals which make us the envy of most nations. 
Most of our primary industries lie bruised and battered. Costs have ground them down. Yet a scant few years ago they were vibrant, economically viable industries. Our mining industry has suffered most. Costs have beaten many a mining operation. Many a project lies idle and silent. Many are on the brink of uneconomic operation. Other projects have not got off the ground because of the anticipated high operational costs. The noise of robust mineral exploration has gone. This was outlined very ably by  Senator Young  when speaking in this debate yesterday. He indicated that over the last few years exploration for gas and oil had practically disappeared from this country. Yet, just five or six years ago, no matter where one went- in the outback or in the other States- a vibrant exploration was going on for oil and gas. As I shall point out later, these rigs have disappeared. In industry and in the commercial world of free enterprise costs have so increased that many industrial projects have closed down or have departed from this country or are on their knees. Unemployment in all these areas is rampant. 
The Australian tourist industry is in a much weakened condition. Like other industries with a high employment factor it is continuing to slip away on a dangerous path. The cost of the product is too high. The cost of remaining viable is too high. The man in the street, whether he is an employee or an employer, has been beset by rapidly increasing living costs, food costs, clothing costs, the cost of a house, the cost of rearing a family, etc. How far does a $10 note go now for a housewife or perhaps it would be better to ask that question in relation to a $20 note? It can be assumed that a considerable amount of the blame for the collapse of the young married couple and of family life is the result of the pressures and strains which are  products of these inflationary years. It is true that wages have chased the cost of living. That is inflation. But how much was the increase in wages worth to the worker? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  A point of order has been raised by  Senator Mulvihill  about an honourable senator reading a speech. I want it to be understood that speeches should not be read in this chamber. As far as I am concerned, if honourable senators want to speak from notes they may, but they should not read their speeches. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I suggest it is also true to say that after the Government has taken its increasing share in taxation out of the pay packet very little is left with which the worker can fortify himself in the inflation gallop. The year 1976 must go into history as the year when Australia, as we knew it, nearly collapsed with its financial structure in ruins. Out of this wreckage would have come, unwanted by the majority of Australians, a social welfare state. This was out of character for the average Australian but it was a situation from which there was little chance of escape. Coupled with this situation was a laxity of Government control over social benefits. People were encouraged to live off the government. At the same time the Public Service increased its numbers within the work force. Fewer hours were worked, production dropped, costs soared and the Government apparently lost control of its expenditure. 
Treasurers came and went. The deficit mounted. Last year's Labor Party Budget became an empty shell. In this situation the present Government took over with a clear mandate from the people of Australia to bring the country back to stability. Stern measures were enacted and they are now history. There was a slashing of Government expenditure, a restriction on the Public Service and a review of the social welfare system. The measures were hard but the move into higher inflation was checked. Gradually the rate of inflation was reduced to the stage where it is forecast that within the next period it will be less than 10 per cent. The deficit has been chopped from some $3, 585m by some $997m. This action was taken by Cabinet. These were hard decisions and in many places they were unpopular. In some areas they caused some hardship and consternation. These decisions required courage. 
Much has happened in the past 1 1 months. Australia is struggling painfully from the debris. Market pointers are beginning to stir. Unemployment, the painful result of these irresponsible years, continues to remain with us. Unfortunately it will remain with us for some time until once again the country comes back to stability and commences to produce. This situation will continue until the country gets rid of its high inflation rate, the cost of living stabilises and the community settles down to a reasonable work pattern of production. The confidence of the nation requires a boost. Australia's name requires a spring clean. Considering the painful period we have endured, I stand here today expressing my considerable relief at the 1976-77 Budget. 
Despite the setbacks, the deficit, the near catastrophe we have experienced, the Budget should encourage and entice the Australian community to raise its head once more and move. The Budget recognises the demand of education and the Government's responsibility to social security. The fact is that for the first time in a very long period the family has been recognised. Some 300 000 low income families are assisted. For too long the Australian family has been ignored. While I certainly have no quarrel with our immigration program I believe that in these days when we are nearing zero growth and when our population is nothing more than static, the natural Australian family must be encouraged. In future it could well be that we will find it increasingly more difficult to draw migrants from those countries, mainly in the European sphere, which have assisted Australia over the years. 
The assisted migrant is a cost to Australia. Why should not the Australian family be assisted in providing our future citizens? In the years to come Australia must give much thought to its future population. I believe it is not good enough to say that by 1980 we will be a scant 15 million people. I do-not think Australia can go along for yet another generation without taking due recognition of the fact that eventually, with its resources in mineral wealth and its land available for more intensive development of primary industry, it could eventually be engulfed. Hand in hand with the development of our natural resources and with the healthy growth rate of our population we have a responsibility to Australians of the future to provide an adequate defence system. In the last few years our ability to defend ourselves has been eroded. Insufficient funds have been made available to provide an adequate defence system. Property for defence has been denied and funds have been frittered away on a welfare system which has gone a long way towards undermining the strength of our Australian character and producing, as the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  has said, the soft Australian. A strong country is a healthy country, and it is with satisfaction and relief that we see the present Government determined to restore and maintain an adequate defence capability, one that will once again command respect in this part of the world. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order! A point of order was raised a while ago about the reading of speeches.  Senator Kilgariff,  I think you are reading a speech and I ask you to desist. It is becoming a practice too frequent in this chamber and I think a stand has to be made. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  I want to make it clear that as the occupant of the chair I cannot become involved in whether it is the Government or the Opposition raising the point of order. I can adjudicate only on what is right according to the Standing Orders and according to the Standing Orders a senator should not read his speech. In relation to the point raised by  Senator Keeffe,  there is nothing to stop an honourable senator asking that a statement he has written out be incorporated in his speech. The point put forward by  Senator Webster  was that  Senator Kilgariff  was making a speech and only referring to his notes. However, as one who has had a quite lengthy experience in public life, I think that is stretching the bow. My assessment was that  Senator Kilgariff  was reading the speech and occasionally looking up, giving the impression that he was not reading. The Standing Orders have to be carried out and the fact that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, a former  President,  raised this point a while ago indicates that in his experience too this has become a practice that is too prevalent. The sooner honourable senators get back to abiding by the Standing Orders and making their speeches either from short notes or from their minds the better. As the point of order had earlier been raised I thought I should draw  Senator Kilgariff's  attention to the matter. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTSenator Keeffe, I understand your request to be whether at the end of  Senator Kilgariff's  speech you can move that the documents be tabled with his speech. That can be done. 
What I describe as the Latin system of debate is a system of people going to a podium and making an address to the whole of the assemblage. It does not become a dialogue; it becomes a hortatory system. The origin of the standing order quite simply is this: People must speak, as it were, from the heart. The moment we introduce the system which has now become part of the Standing Orders in another place, under which a member speaks from a prepared text and literally reads his speech, we are embarking upon a system under which a senator expounds a point of view that has been produced by someone else and therefore is not speaking as a senator sitting in his place. The great danger if a speech is read is that an honourable senator is being used to expound a point of view that has been written out by someone else. 1 will not embark upon this matter any further, except to say this: A Minister of State sitting in this place- I have remarked before that I do not believe that Ministers of state should ever sit in the Senate, but that is an ambition that I will never see realised- is entitled to read a speech where he is dealing with problems relating to government business. In these circumstances there must be total precision in what is said. Consequently, I have never offered any objection to Ministers of state speaking, if I may use former  President  Brown's phrase, 'from copious notes'. 
I think that the Senate is losing the quality which was once held, well acknowledged and well understood by people outside the Parliament; the Senate was the greater debating chamber of the two Houses of Parliament. I say with great humility that, if we allow ourselves to get involved in the question whether an honourable senator is speaking from copious notes or in fact is reading his speech, we are in the process of destroying the system by which the Parliament operates. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I think I have heard sufficient debate. I have given my ruling that the honourable senator who now has the call and all other honourable senators must not read their speeches. Before asking the honourable senator to proceed I would like to read standing order 364, which states: 
A Document quoted from by a  Senator not  a Minister of the Crown may be ordered by the Senate to be laid upon the Table: such Order may be made without Notice immediately upon the conclusion of the speech of the  Senator who  has quoted therefrom. 
I ask  Senator Kilgariff  to resume his speech. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I was discussing the defence of Australia as it relates to the Budget. I would like to carry on with my thoughts on this subject. I hope that the recognition that has now been given by the Government to the upgrading of the defence of Australia will give a much needed boost to the morale of the Australian Defence Force. In the last few years we have seen many resignations from the Defence Force; many valuable men have been lost to the defence of Australia. 
As a territorian, my mind goes back just a few years to when Darwin was bombed. At that time Darwin was the mini-Pearl Harbour of Australia. As a result of the bombing there was great loss of life. Over a period of many months, Broome and many other settlements were bombed, many aircraft were destroyed and many people were killed. I would say that there is very little difference between the situation these days and the situation that existed then. There has been a very small amount of development in the north. Very few defence facilities have been provided in the north. It is true that some aircraft perform minor patrolling duties. Also patrol boats carry out some semblance of patrolling along the northern coast. But there are no ground troops at all. While people in the north probably are aware of the problems arising from the fact that the north of Australia is still undefended, the average person in the south does not realise that the front door of Australia is in such condition. Therefore once again I compliment the Government on renewing the defence facilities of Australia. I look forward very much to the release of the promised White Paper that is to be delivered to the Senate in the next few weeks. 1 would like to talk now about the Northern Territory scene. Once again I go back a few years to the time when Labor was in power. Prior to Labor gaining office the industries in the Northern Territory- industries such as the pastoral, mining and tourism industries- were developing and flourishing. The then Government had given recognition to the fact that the people in the outback needed assistance. Assistance was given on the basis that people in the outback should have a life comparable with that of city dwellers. As a result the then Government introduced the fuel prices equalisation scheme. The then Government also provided freight assistance which meant that goods transported to the Northern Territory and outback Australia from the seaboard and the southern cities arrived and could be purchased at a reasonable price. But what happened? One of the first things that occurred when Labor came to power in 1972 was that  Dr Coombs  was asked to report to the Labor Government on savings that could be made in expenditures of the previous Government. As a result the Coombs Report was presented, and one of the first things that happened was that the fuel prices equalisation scheme was abolished. This meant an immediate and dramatic jump in fuel prices for the people of the outback. 
Also freight assistance was discontinued, with the result that the cost of goods- clothing, food and all of the requirements for a reasonable life in the Territory- jumped dramatically. This is still the case at the moment. Because the fuel prices equalisation scheme was abolished the North Australia Railway had to increase its freight rates to the Frances Creek project, which has received much publicity in the last few days. The increase in freight rates meant that the Frances Creek project could not sustain its costs and became insolvent. Having lost its main client, the North Australia Railway went further and further into the red. Last year,  Mr Charles  Jones, the then Minister for Transport, initiated an inquiry into the viability of the North Australia Railway, which has been closed down this year on the recommendation of that inquiry. 
I am not using that as an argument,  Mr Acting Deputy  President; I am merely stating a matter of fact. I would not know why the report has not been made available to the honourable senator. I imagine that if the honourable senator inquired again, it might be made available to him. The pastoral industry has also suffered severely. This is partly because of its distance from the interstate markets. The overseas markets are dwindling away. What has also hit this industry extremely hard is the cost recovery policy that was initiated by the Labor Government in the last two or three years. This cost recovery policy has probably hit people in the outback harder than any other measure to increase prices. 
I will come to that later. The cost recovery policy of the previous Government has brought about increased rail freights. Rail freights have increased by about 100 percent. 
I am talking about the rail freights on goods which come from Port 
Augusta to Alice Springs. Freight rates have increased by 95 per cent. Fuel costs also have increased in the Territory. For example, petrol is now $1.20 a gallon in some places. It has meant that pastoralists who were in a very poor economic situation have been brought to their knees. This Government which introduced the fuel equalisation scheme recognises it is an important principle. As a person from the outback and one who represents the Northern Territory, I would expect that when this Government gets this country back into a stable situation the matter will be reviewed and some type of fuel equalisation scheme will be introduced. It has been said by honourable senators opposite that the Budget is a disaster for the Northern Territory and that it is a standstill Budget. This has been said in the last few days by the other honourable senator from the Northern Territory. He said that the Northern Territory  News  is a supporter of the Liberal and National Country parties. This newspaper is a part of the Murdoch chain but despite that it said that the Budget was a standstill Budget. That is not the opinion of all people in the Territory. I should like to refer to another newspaper published in the Northern Territory, the  Centralian Advocate.  It also is a part of the Murdoch chain. On 19 August one of its headlines stated: 
Boost for Building. 
Another article stated: 
Man in the Street Not Hit by Budget. The good news from Tuesday night's 'steady growth ' Budget is that for the first time since 1972, there will be no increases in excise on cigarettes, beer, spirits or petrol. 
Excise on these goods was, of course, increased by the Labor Government during the years it was in office. It has been indicated very firmly that the majority viewpoint of the Northern Territory people is that this Budget is acceptable to them. Why should it not be acceptable? I should like to examine the program that has been laid down by this Government for the Northern Territory. The vote for the Darwin Reconstruction Commission this year is $139m. The Housing Commission will receive $2 1.2m. Last year it received $13m. Capital works within the Northern Territory have been allocated a further $50m. This will ensure that the building industry in the Darwin area will continue. The services that are urgently required by the Darwin community will continue to be provided. The building of houses will continue. The home finance scheme has been criticised. Adequate finance is provided in the Budget for this housing authority for this financial year. I believe that the Budget for this year sufficiently caters for those, areas that I have outlined. Naturally, not all industries are coming to the Territory because of the economic situation. This is understood. With the plans that are being prepared for the Territory for the next year or two projects that have not been financed this year will, no doubt, be financed in other years. 
I now refer to the position of the Northern Territory. The Territory has problems which are unique compared with the States of Australia. The Territory- because it is a territory- has very little say in its own affairs. During the years many moves have been made to bring about constitutional changes. People in the Northern Territory desire constitutional changes. It is a fact that the majority of the people in the Northern Territory look forward to ultimate Statehood. They do not believe that Statehood should come overnight. Statehood will be attained by the acceptance of State-like responsibilities. As one climbing a ladder, ultimately we will get there. As the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  said in his election speech in the Northern Territory last December, perhaps Statehood will be achieved in 5 years. This was an opinion and it does not necessarily mean that it will come about. Statehood for the Northern Territory is dependent on the speed with which responsibilities are handed over to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I must say that since this Government has come to power in the last few months some recognition has been given to the report of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory which spells out the transfer of powers. The result of this report has been that in the last few months in the House of Representatives we have seen the introduction of the Northern Territory (Administration) Amendment Bill. This Bill seeks to give power to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. In the attainment of this power and as we move forward to Statehood more say will be given to the people in this particular area. It will bring about more financial responsibility. With the coming of that financial responsibility there will be- as the States have- a buffer against financial cuts such as we have experienced in the past 10 months. Unfortunately, the Territory now is too dependent on Federal Parliament funds. 
Revenue for Statehood in the Northern Territory is funded in the same way as with any of the States in Australia. As I indicated earlier the Northern Territory is a warehouse for the future needs of Australia. In that warehouse there is scope for further development in private industry, mining and tourism. One has to look only at the mineral wealth of the Northern Territory to see what that will mean to Australia in the future. As someone said: Uranium to the Northern Territory and to Australia is what oil is to the Arab states. 
I turn now to our unfortunate people- the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory and Australia generally. Over the years these people have had literally millions of dollars spent on them. One wonders whether any other minority group in the world has had so much per head spent on it. 
As I said, literally millions of dollars have been spent on these people. A mass of organisations, governments, departments and do-gooders have grown around them and all of these have a claim on the money that is made available for the Aboriginal people. I wonder just how many people there are in Australia who are on the Aboriginal pay-roll. When one travels around and sees the people who are interested in the Aboriginal people one wonders whether they are pursuing this interest at their own cost. Some may be, but I would say that a lot would be living off the Aborigines. 
I do not live off the Aborigines. As I was saying, very much money has been spent on the Aborigines from which they are not receiving a benefit. I instance the housing associations that are now coming under review by this Government. Surely I do not have to spell out the situation in the Senate because it has been obvious to everyone that the previous Government gave, in a willy-nilly fashion, millions of dollars for Aboriginal housing. The Government had no control over this housing, nor did it ask for it. The poor unfortunate Aboriginal person, having had no experience in this type of thing, had to fall back on very many people. Over the years there has been extreme wastage. 
Over the last few months I have travelled consistently in the Northern Territory and I suppose I have visited most housing associations in the Territory. Some have been successful and some have fallen by the wayside, but not through the fault of the Aboriginal people. Once again, the fault has been this frittering away, this wastage of funds, by people who have come in as consultants and the like. It is not odd to see that some of the houses in the Northern Territory have cost up to $50,000, $60,000 or $70,000. It is rumoured that S 1 1 5,000 has been paid for a house at Amoonguna. This has happened in Tennant Creek, and at Snake Bay and other places. It has happened in many places, once again not through the fault of the Aborigine but because the previous Government did not take the time or the trouble to ensure that the money that was allocated to the Aboriginal people was spent correctly. 
We have  Senator Cavanagh  in this chamber, who I believe has a genuine interest in Aboriginal housing. But he. like others, did not follow the matter through and allowed these vast sums of money to be frittered away. So what is the situation today? It is natural, in correcting this situation, that we should ensure that the Aboriginal people get value for their money and that the money that has been allocated by the Government gets to the Aboriginal people. This has not been done previously. As I said, the previous Government allowed the money to be frittered away. Whilst  Senator Cavanagh,  who is trying to interject, is probably a genuine person I would say that when the Labor Government of which he was a member made the declaration that 5100m, or an amount of that proportion, was being allocated for Aborigines all it was interested in doing was to wave the flag and say: Look what we have done. We have allocated $100m But the Labor Government did not ensure that that money was spent to the advantage of the Aboriginal people. 
We now have the situation where  Mr Hay  has looked at the Aboriginal associations with a view to correcting the situation quickly and to ensuring that the housing associations that have proved to be successful and are being well controlled and well managed will commence rebuilding as quickly as possible. In other areas that have suffered disasters, more thought will have to be given and more work will have to be done before building is commenced. 
This halting of money has been for a brief few weeks and money is now in the process of coming forward again. It will provide much housing that is required for Aboriginals- the type of housing that is wanted by the Aboriginal people. As I said before, previously there was no control over the money. When one looks at the types of houses that were built in some of the settlements, against the wishes of the Aboriginal people, one wonders. I have seen houses of some 15 to 16 squaresmodern houses that should or could have fitted into a modern suburb. The money was frittered away in these various ways. 
Because at the side of these houses people are living in the dust with their dogs. If this money had been well spent, instead of 560,000, $80,000 or 5100,000 being spent on one house the Aboriginal people would have received some 6 to 8 houses. The Labor Government had nothing to be proud of in this field. The Opposition continues to raise its voice on behalf of the Aboriginal people but what has it done for the Aboriginal people? As far as I am concerned and as far as the people of the Northern Territory are concerned, it has done nothing but bring misery to the people. It is only now that the fringe dwellers of the towns are being housed. It has only been since we began our brief period in office that leases are being issued and camping facilities provided. So let us hear no more of this in the Senate when honourable senators opposite wave the flag on behalf of the Aboriginal people. They have used the Aboriginal people. 
As I have said before, this Budget has been described as a Budget of reform, a Budget for the man in the street. Having moved around Australia, it is my opinion that the Budget is welcomed by the people of Australia, including the people of" the Northern. Territory. It is welcomed because last year the people of Australia wondered where they were going but now, within the brief period of some 10 months that we have been in office, we have brought down this Budget which wil! lift Australia back onto its feet. I make one point in this respect: This Budget can be successful, bur its success will depend on the ability of Australia to produce, to control inflation, to keep the cost of its products down and- at the same time, naturally- to contain increases in wages. But if the objectives of this Budget are to be frustrated by wildcat strikes and go-slow methods, we will see inflation continue as it has been. An excellent Budget has been produced by the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch.  If those conditions continue to prevail, it can fall by the wayside. So, while in the Budget we see a move to cure inflation and to return stability to the country, the success of this endeavour will depend very much on the assistance given by people in industry. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. As the Government has announced that people who are unemployed in Australia are to be given assistance in moving to an area where employment is available, will this scheme be available to the people of the outback who because of their isolation and distance from other centres have an added financial difficulty in moving to a new job in another area? In circumstances where the proposed assistance is insufficient, will the Government give consideration to these factors of distance and isolation and give a higher level of assistance than that indicated? 
Last week in a debate in this chamber  Senator Mulvihill  referred to an article in the  Nation Review.  I thank the honourable senator for drawing my attention to that article. I have looked at the article which was included in  Hansard  during that debate. In the first place I would like to say to the Senate and to  Senator Mulvihill  that that report in the  Nation Review  of 10 to 16 September by D. Jenkyn is a very inaccurate and misleading statement. It is so inaccurate and so misleading that one can understand why  Senator Mulvihill  looked at it with some concern. In fact  Senator Mulvihill,  in drawing the Senate's attention to it, challenged me to look at the matter further. I have done so. He said: 
I have here an article from the  Nation Review  which contains alarming allegations about members of the Country Party. It talks about a chap named Rex  Jettner.  Several other people are named. Reg Harris is one. They are on boards galore. I do not object to their being on boards. If a Labor man is appointed to a board, it is said to be a terrible thing. 
I am amazed that such a misleading article could get into the national Press. In fact I suggest that the article is rather pitiful. Evidently its aim is to belittle boards of the Northern Territory, by saying that their members receive a travelling allowance. The article implies that there is political influence up there which ensures that members of the National Country Party and the Liberal Party in the Northern Territory are in the majority on those boards. That is not the case. 
Let us look at the boards of the Northern Territory. The article implies that they are rather frivolous, but these boards are State-like boards. One sees such boards in the States and one sees their counterparts in the Commonwealth. The author of the article says that there are about 70 boards. I think that there are really about 77 of them. They include the Tourist Board, the Reserves Board, the Northern Territory Port Authority, the Apprentices Board, the Housing Commission, the Bushfires Council, the Hospital Advisory Boards and so on. One sees in the 77 boards a call from within the community of the Northern Territory to participate in these Statelike organisations. These people have to travel over a large area. The area of the Northern Territory is about 540 000 square miles. There is a lot of" work to be done and, for these people to do their work, they have to travel. Why should they not be paid a travelling allowance? As the article says, they are paid $37 a day which is the same as we are paid, as State parliamentarians are paid and as other members of State and Commonwealth organisations are paid. 
To carry out their duties in the Northern Territory is not as easy as it is for us here. They have the problems of the climate and the country to contend with. Members of these boards work under difficulties. They work under the heat of a tropic sun and a desert sun. They work under the cold of winter in central Australia where the temperature can fall to below zero. In fact this year it went down to minus 7 degrees. So this is not a laughing matter. I say that the charge is quite frivolous. 
Yes, there are trade unionists on the boards. Let me endeavour to set  Senator Mulvihill  's mind at rest. One finds that the members of those boards are drawn from the Northern Territory community according to the responsibilities of those particular boards and the capabilities of the men involved. The positions are filled by the process of advertising vacancies in the Northern Territory newspapers. 
Individuals or organisations may nominate a person and the name goes to the AdministratorinCouncil. 
The AdministratorinCouncil selects the membership of these boards. While the Administrator-in-Council selects the members of these boards one realises that in the Northern Territory the Administrator is the  chairman  of that Council. I do not think there is any inference that over the years the Administrator has acted in any way improperly. One just has to remember the Administrators whom we have had in the Northern Territory over the last few years. Of course, now we have  Mr John  England; we know all about him. We had a very prominent Northern Territory person prior to  Mr England,  namely,  Mr Jock  Nelson who served the Territory in many ways. Originally, he was a member of the Northern Territory Legislative Council. He went into the Federal House for, I think, 17 or 18 years. He retired and became mayor of Alice Springs. From mayor of Alice Springs, in 1 974 for about a year or more he served as Administrator of the Northern Territory. 
During this period I was on the Administrator's Council with  Mr Nelson.  He was a very fine Administrator. Many of the appointments which are being discussed today were made in that period. Prior to  Mr Nelson  were  Mr Fred  Chaney,  Mr Roger  Dean and so on. At the moment, despite the fact that there are Liberal Party members on the Administrator's Council, there were no political appointments as can very easily be seen. I refer to the various points which have been made. The article refers to  Mr Rex  Jettner. It is true that he is a member of the CLP. I have looked through the records and in fact he is the only member of a political party to be  chairman  of a board. I suggest to the Senate that as  Mr Jettner  was appointed to the Primary Producers Board on 7 October 1970 and as he was appointed  Chairman  on 24 March 1971 he is a very dedicated person. It is quite wrong to draw the inference that he is on that Board for any other reason than to assist the people of the Territory. There are very few people in Australia today who work the hours that  Mr Rex  Jettner works. As  Chairman  of the Primary Producers Board he has given away his business and devoted himself fulltime to the Board because that is required. As we have discussed on many occasions in the Senate, the pastoral industry in the Territory and in Australia is in extreme difficulties. The Territory is fortunate to have a man such as  Mr Rex  Jettner 
Then we come to mistake after mistake made by the author of this article. It reads: 
Next, take Reg Harris. 
It states that he is a CLP vice-president, and continues: 
He chairs the Tourist board . . . and is a member of the Reserves board (national parks and gardens ordinance). 
The inference is that jobs for the boys get members on these boards; it is jobs galore. The fact is that  Mr Reg  Harris who is  chairman  of the Northern Territory Tourist Board is not a member of the CLP. The fact that he is on 2 boards is because there has to be liaison between the Northern Territory Tourist Board and the Reserve Board. If we look for a Reg Harris who is a member of the CLP we should look down the Track some 250 miles. There is a Reg Harris there but he is a completely different person and they are not related. So there in a national newspaper is the first glaring mistake. 
The article goes on to mention Merv Elliott. This Merv Elliott is supposedly the  chairman  of the Wildlife Advisory Council and supposedly holds a senior position in the CLP. That is far from the case.  Mr Merv  Elliott is not  chairman  of the Wildlife Advisory Council. The fact is that the  chairman  is  Mr Murray  Elliott, who is chief inspector of wildlife and who is a Commonwealth public servant. So once again there is a glaring mistake. It is rather incredible to me that a person who is a journalist for a national newspaper should make such glaring mistakes. The newspaper article continues on to make remarks about an A. G. W. Greatorex. It is quite true that he is a prominent person in the Northern Territory and was, before he retired, an active member in the National Country Party. He was appointed to the Lands Board, I think back in 1963. The dedication of people such as  Mr Greatorex  has also contributed greatly to the Northern Territory. 
The article then refers to  Mr Rupert  Kentish.  Mr Rupert  Kentish is the member for Arnhem. It is suggested that as he is a member of the same Lands Board there is something odd there. These instances which I cite now are the few cases where there are people within the CLP on these boards. I draw the attention of  Senator Mulvihill  to the fact that there are many other people on these various boards. I might point out to the honourable senator that members of the Australian Labor Party are also on these boards. One could cite, for instance,  Mr John  Isaacs.  Mr John  Isaacs is a well known Labor identity in the Northern Territory. He is a member of the Northern Territory Port Authority, and as a member of that authority he gives invaluable service because of his expertise in that particular field. On top of that he is on the Parole Board of the Northern Territory. In addition to that again he is on the workers' compensation tribunal along with another leading Labor identity whose name escapes me at the moment. 
No, he is  Mr John  Isaacs' offsider in the union; and there are others I could mention as well. But getting back to  Mr Kentish,  he has been on the Lands Board for a considerable time and has given tremendous service on it. In fact, the newspaper article did not mention one board of which  Mr Rupert  Kentish is a member, and that is the Aboriginal Lands Board. Not too many people realise that the Northern Territory has an Aboriginal Lands Board. It has been granting land to Aborigines for several years. It was established as a result of the first action to give land to Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory back in 1970, which, as I indicated before when I gave a brief talk on the matter, was when I was  chairman  of the particular select committee which recommended that land rights be given to the people of the Northern Territory.  Mr Rupert  Kentish was on that board for many years until the board was told by a government administrative order that it was to cease its activities. That board had granted some 60-odd blocks of land- various leases- to the Aboriginal people. 
It would have been a bigger deal if the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and the Aboriginal Lands Board had been given a go. I can remember one pastoral lease on the Daly River. The area involved runs into several hundred square miles; I think it may be 800 to 1000 square miles. The particular group on that land is doing very fine work. It is a group of Aboriginal people whom I would recommend any honourable senator should visit. All in all I suggest that this article is misleading. I hope from the explanation I have given that  Senator Mulvihill  will not be alarmed by the allegations that have been made because in many cases the names referred to in this article are completely incorrect. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Last week the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Minister for the Northern Territory indicated that leases were being processed by the Government to enable Aboriginal fringe dwellers of Alice Springs to be provided with town services to allow those people to have electricity, water, showers, toilets and camping and housing facilities. In all, 6 or 7 leases either were completed or were being processed, with others being held in reserve for future use. In one or two cases the land was not available. Has a group of people in Alice Springs indicated to the Government that the Aboriginal people will not co-operate in the acceptance and handling of leases unless they receive all land requested as a package deal? If this is the case, what action does the Minister intend to take to ensure that the people concerned realise that by not accepting the leases, the aged, the children and other Aboriginal people will continue to live in an unhygienic, deprived state, lacking the basic facilities for a reasonable existence? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In the past I have made representations on behalf of" Timorese people in the Northern Territory to the Federal Parliament. My question now is along similar lines to that asked by  Senator Missen.  The Indonesian Government announced during the weekend that, because of continued fighting in Timor between the Timorese people and the Indonesian Army, the borders of Timor have been sealed off by Indonesia and the coastline of Timor is being patrolled. It is reported that there is a further large number of casualties in Timor and that the death rate apparently is increasing rapidly. In view of these disturbing reports and the fact that many Timorese are being killed unnecessarily, will the Government renew its endeavours with the Indonesian Government with a view to bringing about a cessation of hostilities and so allowing communication between Timor and Australia in order to permit the transfer of refugees and /or much needed aid? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. On Wednesday, 15 September, the program  This Day Tonight  showed a segment on ABC television on Aboriginal matters relating to the southern part of the Northern Territory. Appearing on television was a doctor from the Aboriginal medical centre at Alice Springs and an officer from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs at Alice Springs. They made various statements, scurrilous and possibly defamatory, against dedicated people working within the Department of Health in the Northern Territory. Other erroneous statements such as: No Aboriginal people being employed by the Department of Health ' were made. In fact, more than half of the people employed within the Department of Health are Aboriginal people. They comprise hospital assistants, health workers, a nursing sister and also a traditional healer. However, I understand that the Department of Health staff organisations wish to check the  This Day Tonight  program and have requested a copy of the interviews but have been refused by the ABC. Will the Minister, on behalf of these people, approach the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to have made available to them a copy of the transcript so that they may answer the charges made during that interview. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) When was the Northern Territory Crown Lands Ordinance passed by the Northern Territory Legislative Council and when did it commence. 
2 ) In what year was the Aboriginal Land Board set up. 
Who were the members of the Board, and what was the Aboriginal content. 
How many applications for land were received and how many of these were successful. 
5 ) What number were unsuccessful, and for what reason. 
Who were the groups or individuals who were granted leases, and what was the type of lease granted and for what purpose. 
Why did the operations of the Northern Territory Aboriginal Land Board cease, and on what date. 
On the date the Aboriginal Land Board ceased to process applications, how many applications were outstanding and from whom and where did the applications originate. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I have received representations from the Northern Territory regarding the fact that it is anticipated that, because of the present establishment of staff for the Department of Health and also because of the likelihood of further cuts in the number of staff throughout the Northern Territory, the Department of Health may not have sufficient staff to operate facilities such as health projects under construction and nearing completion in Darwin, Katherine, Alice Springs and other places. If this is a fact, what action is being taken to ensure that provision will be made for sufficient staff and that applications will be invited to fill the vacancies? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to the problem being experienced by Timorese corning to Australia, in many cases to be reunited with their families in the eastern States of Australia, and also in Darwin, Northern Territory, where several hundred refugees are living. The  Age  today reports this matter on its front page under the heading  'Mr Fraser,  please bring back our men', and outlines the problem as being one of not being able to save quickly enough for the fares before the option expired on 30 June. Is not the report erroneous and is not the true situation that, as there has been no contact with Timor for several months, aircraft or shipping cannot go there by either a regular schedule or charter, that the Australian Government has indicated it would permit the Timorese to enter Australia and that, as in the Darwin case, finance would have been and still is available for the chartering of aircraft? Can the Government give an assurance that it is very aware of the plight and hardship in which Timorese refugees are living in Australia and that it is the Government's intention to find ways and means of assisting communication between Timor and Australia to help the people of Timor, to assist in providing urgently needed supplies and to use its influence to bring Timor back from a' state of siege? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. When will the Government announce the timetable for the transfer to the control of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly of activities additional to those included in the package scheduled for transfer on 31 December 1976? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With the near completion of the Stuart Highway south of Kulgera to the Northern Territory /South Australian border, what plans are envisaged for the construction of a sealed highway in South Australia to connect with the Eyre Highway. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What plans are proposed for the future of the Darwin Airport terminal buildings, which were extensively damaged as a result of cyclone Tracy. 
What is the proposed time-table if repairs are to be Carried out on the present buildings. 
What facilities will be provided to alleviate the subStandard state of the terminal as it now stands. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
In view of the concern of the people and the strong representations by leaders of the Katherine community, what plans are in hand to have an S bent in Giles Street reconstructed and re-aligned so as to remove this dangerous section where many serious accidents have occurred. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government intend to place customs vessels in various areas of the northern coastline to bring under closer scrutiny smuggling of drugs and other illegal goods. 
Is it the intention of the Government to strengthen customs control over northern waters and air space. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. Like  Senator Messner,  I am concerned about home sales. In the Northern 
Territory, for instance, the home sales scheme has been cut out for some time. I understand that it has been cut out for the same reason mentioned by  Senator Messner.  My question this morning relates to another form of housing which the Territory has not had available to it during the last few years. Whilst the Territory has had available to it all sorts of housing finance and housing home finance, housing commission, and other types of community housing, it has not had strata title housing available until now. The question is: What is the present situation in regard to this strata title legislation passed by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly some 10 months ago and not yet commenced? When is it anticipated that people of the Northern Territory might be able to avail themselves of this type of home development? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the interim report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs titled  Alcohol Problems of Aboriginals: Northern Territory Aspects  and in particular to clauses 77 and 78 under the heading Adams Report'. Clause 77 reads: 
In paragraph SI, the Committee emphasised its concern about the lack of action on the Adams Report. 
Clause 78 states: 
The Committee believes that closer liaison between the Legislative Assembly and the Department of the Northern 
Territory is desirable in the preparation of drafting instructions. It is therefore recommended that there be greater cooperation and consultation between the Department of the Northern Territory and the Executive of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to improve the legislative process in respect of the Licensing Ordinance. 
What action is to be taken, bearing in mind that no government action has been taken since the Adams report was tabled in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in 1973? This lack of action has caused further deterioration in the Northern Territory, particularly as no amendments to the Licensing Ordinance to set up a liquor commission have been drafted despite the numerous requests by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) What action is being taken following the cessation of building activities of Dowsett, a building company in the Northern Territory in which many projects on Aboriginal settlements including houses, hospitals, schools, etc. remain partially constructed. 
Has any action been taken or will any action be taken to have these projects completed. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It has been reported in the  Canberra Times  and the  Australian  today that in a cable from the Australian Ambassador in Jakarta on 8 September this year it was mentioned that  Mr Whitlam  when Prime Minister was made fully aware by the Indonesian Government of its intentions to move into Timor to suppress, if necessary by force, and that  Mr Whitlam  indicated that he expressed the hope that any military action necessary could be taken as quickly as possible, which meant that if the killing of Timorese people were necessary it should be done as quickly as possible. Is this statement correct? Is it not the case that by  Mr Whitlam  purposely looking the other way he is partly responsible for the deaths of many Timorese people for if he had taken a firmer and less cowardly line last year would it not have been more likely that the present position in Timor could well have been very different with Australia able to hold up its head rather than bow it in shame as is the case now? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. I have received many representations, mainly from Aboriginal settlements in the Northern Territory, regarding the future of the Aboriginal teachers' assistants scheme. In view of the need for Aboriginal teachers' assistant on the settlements, does the Government intend to ease the staff restrictions on the Department of Education establishment to allow these most needed assistants to be employed? 
I ask my question of the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. It relates to the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. As a brief preamble, I point out that the Darwin Reconstruction Commission was set up last year by a Federal Act and, because of its role, has a limited life. In reconstructing Darwin after cyclone Tracy it has done a magnificent job producing some 6 to 8 houses a day, 7 days a week. Having in mind the considerable public discussion taking place amongst the most notable figures in the Darwin Reconstruction Commission in the Northern Territory in regard to the winding up of the Commission and setting up a single housing authority for the Northern Territory, I ask: What action does the Government intend to take with regard to winding up the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, and when? What authority is to take over the role of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission? Will the Government consider setting up an authority, merging the activities and roles of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, the Northern Territory Housing Commission and the Department of Construction into one single Northern Territory housing authority? 
I present the following petition from 33 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That we are thankful that the Government intends to introduce legislation to give effect to Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory. 
) That Aboriginal people have their own laws according to which land is owned, defined, administered and controlled. 
That Aboriginal land owning clans each held and still hold their own title to their own land. 
That Aboriginal law does not permit pieces of land held under separate Aboriginal title to be placed into land trusts encompassing more than one piece of traditionally held land. 
That Aboriginal law does not permit an organisation or body made up of Aborigines from different clans to speak on behalf of, negotiate on Behalf of, advise or otherwise deal with any traditional land owning group in relation to its land. 
Your Petitioners therefore most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will show respect for the laws of Aboriginal people and enact Land Rights Legislation which will allow our traditional land laws to operate unhindered. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. In the first report made public by the Fox Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry it was indicated that, while the green light was given for the mining and milling of uranium in Australia under certain conditions, the mining of uranium in the Northern Territory could not be commenced until the second part of the report was made public. Is the Government in a position to indicate when the second part of the report will be made available to the public, to enable the people of the Northern Territory to evaluate the future? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the extent of work completed on the standard gauge railway between Tarcoola and Alice Springs to date. 
What is (a) the extent of the construction to be carried out this financial year and (b) the anticipated time scale for completion of the standard gauge railway between Tarcoola and Alice Springs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the amount of unsealed road on the main route and other routes between Brisbane and the Northern Territory border. 
What amount of sealing is to be completed in the current financial year. 
What is the time scale for the completion of the sealing of at least one route between Brisbane and the Northern Territory border. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many rural health centres have been completed in the Northern Territory. 
How many are being constructed. 
How many are in the planning stages. 
Where are the centres situated or planned to be situated. 
5 ) Are there any staffing problems being experienced. 
What Aboriginal staff are being employed. 
Are any Aboriginals being trained. 
What is the role of the health centres on Aboriginal settlements, missions, etc. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the so called across the board cuts and staff ceilings being applied to Commonwealth public servants and Government departments. Are there indeed across the board cuts directed at all Government departments or are they selective to the degree that they are not expected to cause over loading of the work force, lack of efficiency by departments, etc? In the event of these measures causing lack of efficiency, with a department unable to carry out its duties to a reasonable standard, does the Government review such situations as outlined? I might also say to the Minister that I believe this does happen in isolated areas of the Northern Territory. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Construction. Yesterday I asked questions relating to across the board cuts in the Commonwealth Public Service. It was indicated that if departments were overloaded because of staff shortage, heads of departments could make an approach to the Public Service Board or the Prime Minister. In view of the considerable concern in some areas of the Northern Territory in regard to lack of Commonwealth Public Service staff through the imposition of staff ceilings and the nonreplacement of personnel who have left their positions for various reasons, will the Minister draw to the attention of the Minister for Construction that, as an example, in the Darwin Hospital maintenance has practically ceased because of lack of tradesmen? This has resulted in there being only one serviceable boiler to service the hospital. There are many other maintenance problems and complaints. As another example, in the Tennant Creek power house there is insufficient staff to maintain and overhaul engines properly. As output of power from the power house is at near capacity, sufficient power for this mining town is in jeopardy. 
I do not think  Senator McLaren  was scrupulously fair. I wish to comment on some of his statements last night when speaking on this vote about the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway. He suggested that there was a curtailment of the line in time, standard and finance. I have been very concerned with the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway over very many years as have very many members of the Northern Territory community, with the result that after much persuasion the Liberal and Country Parties, when they were previously in power, initiated the design and planning for a new standard guage railway line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. It was that Government that did all the initial planning, the designing and the initial funding for this line. If I remember rightly, the initial funding was some $2. 3m. But of course the Australian Labor Party then came into power and there seemed to me and to the people of the Northern Territory to be almost a strange reluctance on the part of Labor to get on with the job. There was lethargy and procrastination which lasted for well over a year. We in the Territory wondered whether Labor was going to pick up the job and continue. There was a strange reluctance. Legislation had to be passed by the Federal Government and the South Australian Government. We wondered why it took the Dunstan Government in South Australia a year to produce legislation to allow for the construction of this line. Because of this procrastination and lethargy we wondered what Dunstan was up to. We thought there must have been some catch to it and that behind the scenes something was going on between him and the Federal Labor Government that was not made public. However, eventually legislation was passed and construction commenced. 
What is the extent of work completed on the standard gauge railway between Tarcoola and Alice Springs to date. 
The answer was: 
1 ) Earthworks, including bridges and culverts, have been completed to Robin Rise, 160 km north of Tarcoola and track laying to 87 km north of Tarcoola. 
I asked: 
What is (a) the extent of the construction to be carried out this financial year and (b) the anticipated time scale for completion of the standard gauge railway between Tarcoola and Alice Springs. 
The answer was: 
(a) A contract has been let for earthworks, including bridges and culverts, for the section from Robin Rise to Marla Bore. Estimated date for completion of these works is November 1977. If the present rate of track laying is maintained trackwork should be approximately 30 km north of Robin Rise by June 1 979. 
b ) The railway is expected to be completed in 1 98 1 . 
So there is a clear indication that it is the intention of the Government to ensure that the standard gauge line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs is constructed and financed within that timetable. In the Budget this year is a large amount which is being spent on this Une. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Before I call on  Senator Kilgariff  to continue his remarks, I would like to point out, having listened to the debate both last night and this morning, that many honourable senators are not dealing in their remarks with the items that are under consideration at the present time. The Chair does not want to inhibit any honourable senator from making a contribution, but in future I shall try to ensure that honourable senators keep their remarks relevant to the line of the estimates under consideration.  Senator Kilgariff  has been dealing with a subject which is not really concerned with the vote under consideration. Upon an examination of the Appropriation Bill I find that an item concerning surveys is the only matter on the subject raised by  Senator Kilgariff  that comes under the estimates for which  Senator Withers  is responsible. So I ask  Senator Kilgariff  to wind up his remarks and to try to confine them to the vote under consideration.  Senator Kilgariff  can raise these matters under the Estimates for the Department of Transport or the Department of Construction. 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  What I was doing was continuing the debate which occurred last night, the report of which is to be found at page 1580 of  Hansard  where  Senator McLaren  went on at length about this matter. Although he had been asked to confine his remarks to the vote under consideration, he was then allowed to continue to talk on this subject. However, I note your advice,  Mr Chairman.  I shall wind up as quickly as possible. I have often wondered why there was so much time lost by the 2 Labor governments- that is, the Federal Government and the South Australian Labor Government- in going ahead with the construction of that railway line. I can only assume that the reason that a year or more was lost was that something must have been going on behind the scenes between these 2 governments; in other words, that the construction of the railway line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs was part of a package deal involving the South Australian Government selling its railway system to the Federal Government. 
I conclude by referring briefly to the lowering of the standard of construction to be applied to that line.  Mr Keith  Smith, who is Commissioner for Railways, recently said at a public meeting that the standard of construction of that line would be comparable with any line in Australia. Commissioner Smith was attending a public meeting when he was questioned. 
I disagree. The honourable senator wants the best of both worlds. Last night he was given the go-ahead to speak on a particular line. When one looks at the  Hansard  record of his remarks one sees that he went on at considerable length. The only points I have raised this morning are those which refer to the matters raised by  Senator McLaren. 
I accept your advice,  Mr Chairman.  I want to raise certain other matters which are concerned with the subject in relation to which I think  Senator McLaren  has misled the Senate. I shall do that at a more opportune time. 
You are spreading malicious rumours. 

 Senator McLaren replied: 
They may be malicious, but they can be answered. 
I suggest that there is plenty of cause for  Senator Kilgariff  to be concerned about that. 
I wish to make a couple of remarks in relation to matters raised by  Senator Bishop.  I have indicated earlier today my concern that the Tarcoola-Alice Springs line should be constructed as quickly as possible. I indicated before that the people of the Northern Territory were very disappointed to see that a year had been lost before South Australia introduced the necessary legislation. It is of no use honourable senators on the other side saying that the Larrimah-Darwin line was closed by this Government without due consideration. I have indicated in the Senate before that this line was closed because of the actions of the previous Australian Labor Party Government which brought in a cost-recovery policy. That policy increased the freight rates to the Frances Creek mines. Those mines with their iron ore deposits were one of the few industries we had in Northern Australia. The freight rates were increased to such an extent that the Frances Creek mines were put out of action. This reflected immediately on the revenue of the railway line between Larrimah and Darwin. Last year the Labor Government initiated an inquiry into its feasibility. It was shown that the line was so uneconomic that it was then closed. 
I do not want to prolong this debate but, as I have said before, I am concerned that this line should be constructed as quickly as possible. I have here an extract from the  Centralian Advocate  of 28 October headed: 'Minister Won't Let Railway Close '. It says: 
The Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  said yesterday he had received no proposal to close the Central Australian Railway. 
The people of the Northern Territory can be assured that the Government will continue to provide the best transport facilities possible to cater for their needs. 
No changes will be made to existing arrangements without my authority, ' the Minister said. 
The Minister made that statement because it was revealed a few weeks ago that  Mr Keith  Smith, the  chairman  of the Australian National Railways Commission, in discussions with a union representative in Port Augusta indicated that there was a likelihood- the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has just referred to this-that the railways were looking at the feasibility of putting a rail head at Manguri Bore while the line was constructed from Manguri Bore to Alice Springs. This immediately brought about tremendous concern amongst the people of the Northern Territory because that would have meant that the rail head would have been only 200 kilometres north of Tarcoola. It would not have been economic. It would have had troubles because the road was not bituminised and freight rates would have increased. So I and many other people made representations to the Minister. It has been indicated by  Senator Carrick  that making Manguri a rail head is not feasible. 
That is an indication that the things that have been said- for instance, that the line is not going ahead, that there was to be a rail head at Manguri and that was the end of the matter- are quite false. The Minister for Transport has indicated that he will not close the line, that the Manguri rail head will not be established, and so we will see the construction of this line continuing into the Northern Territory. It may well be feasible in some two or three years time, when the railway line reaches as far as Kulgera which is some 180 miles south of Alice Springs, to have a temporary rail head there while the line is constructed to Alice Springs. But that is a decision for the future. I have little more to say about the matter. As I have said before, I think that some people have a false impression of the situation. The problems and the fears of people in the Northern Territory have been allayed by the Minister. 
I want to make a few remarks on divisions 480 to 483 on the Postal and Telecommunications Department. I want to comment briefly about the people of the outback. I have lived in the outback all my life and I would not hesitate to say that the hardships that have been created for the people of the outback in the last few years have been tremendous, particularly with the cost recovery policies and so on. I feel that particularly in the last few years the rest of Australia has forgotten the people of the outback. It was only a few years ago that Australia was encouraging people to go into the outback. But I believe now that the present policy is creating hardships. Because of falling incomes in the pastoral industries, because the mining industries have been disrupted and are collapsing there is very little incentive for people to go out there. 
I believe that a few years ago when the Postmaster-General's Department was responsible for postal and telecommunications services the people in the outback were much better off. Now that department has been split into 2 statutory bodies. When one looks at the returns of those organisations one finds that they are making very great profits. I suggest that this profit making has been to the detriment of the people in the outback and consideration should be given to this problem. When we look back a few years to the services that were given to the people in the outback, whether they be mail services, radio services, telegram service and so on, we find that the people were much better off. They had a much better postal service. The postal service to the people in the outback, the isolated areas, the mining fields and the stations has now depreciated. 
Having some interest in the Flying Doctor Service of the outback, I have noted that, whereas the people of the outback had found it most necessary over the years to use the Flying Doctor Service for telegrams and communication with the rest of Australia, because of increased charges there has been a dramatic cutback in the number of telegrams being put through the Flying Doctor Service base. This means only one thing: Not only are the people of the outback economising; they cannot afford that service. This is the only line of communication they have with the rest of Australia. I do not want to lay it on too thickly, but I must say that the living conditions of the people in the outback have not improved; they have depreciated. Once again I make a plea for these people in the outback who are completely dependent upon postal and telecommunications services. If the cost recovery policies that are being adopted in relation to postal and telecommunication services and other services continue to be applied and costs are increased while the living conditions of the people in the outback depreciate, the people of the outback will leave. This is beginning to happen now. I do not know whether this plea will carry any weight, but if Australia wants to see the development of the outback we must recognise the people of those parts and ensure they are given some facilities and privileges for living there. 
I refer to division 334, Northern Territory Hospitals, and to subdivision 1- Salaries and Payments in the nature of Salary. My comments will be directed to the recipients of those salaries, the dedicated people of the Northern Territory Health Department, and to the problems they face. Before I deal with that matter I wish to make one statement in regard to the speech that  Senator Cavanagh  has just made concerning the death of Paula Sweet. I support him completely in his statement that the death of Paula Sweet has not been investigated. If he can do anything about the matter, I certainly will assist him. In fact, I believe that I have a document which may help us to do something about it. 
I believe that the Northern Territory Health Department and its people have been very well served by the various Commonwealth governments. Generally, the health facilities in the Northern Territory are extremely good. There are very many sophisticated hospitals, and the health facilities throughout the Territory, from Alice Springs to Darwin, are extremely good. A new hospital is being built in Alice Springs at a cost of $ 13m to $14m. A new hospital is being built at Tennant Creek. There is a 32-bed hospital at Katherine. At Casuarina in Darwin a new hospital is being built at an emormous cost. 
My concern about this matter arose when I read the  Hansard  of 12 October 1976 of Estimates Committee D, when the matter of the establishment of the Northern Territory Health Department was discussed under this subdivision. When I look at the questions and answers recorded in  Hansard  I find myself very confused. It was said that the present staff ceiling of the Health Department is 2 299 and that the actual number of people employed is 2 274. The question was asked whether there was sufficient staff for the 286-bed hospital in Alice Springs, where there is a requirement for 80 personnel, the 32-bed hospital at Katherine and 4 wards at Darwin hospital. An officer giving evidence before the Committee indicated that because of the fluctuations in staff numbers- there are many resignations and recruitments- there was no necessity to increase the establishment because the growth in the Health Department would occur within the staff ceiling. I presume the officer was saying that if there were some 100 to 150 resignations from the Northern Territory Health Department the staff which would be required to operate the modem facilities in the Territory would be drawn from within the staff ceiling of the Department. That does not take account of the fact that the 150 people who resigned would need replacing. 
This matter concerns me greatly. Over the last year or two the Northern Territory has been very short of professional people, because the salaries, facilities, privileges, etc, given to the professional people generally have been lower than those given in the States. There was a continual controversy for a year or two before it was decided by arbitration that salaries would be increased to bring the Northern Territory medical profession on to a par with the profession in the rest of Australia. The fact that Cyclone Tracy blew Darwin apart meant that at that time there was an extreme shortage of professional people. I suggest that, taking into consideration the number of resignations and the effects of Cyclone Tracy, the staff ceiling of 2299 is insufficient. I have a telegram which was sent to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  by David L. Pollock, M.L.A., the Executive Member for Social Affairs. He is the person in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly who liaises with the Health Department on the subject of health facilities in the Northern Territory. In that telegram he said: 
Express my deepest concern at advice that staff ceilings of Northern Territory Division Department of Health are to be reduced by further 1.4 per cent at a time health services in Territory need expansion owing to ( 1 ) rehabilitation of additional wards at Darwin Hospital essential to maintain health services at time of continued high population increases (2) commissioning of new 286-bed hospital at Alice Springs and 32-bed ward at Katherine Hospital before end of year. It must be remembered that before ceiling restrictions imposed staff levels already low due cyclone and recruitment difficulties owing low salaries and conditions offered. Whilst appreciating need for restraint health services cannot be strangled. Your intervention in this matter urged to ensure maintenance of health services in NT. 
I do not know whether it is a deliberate move by the Health Department as a whole- I am not referring to the Northern Territory Health Department- to disregard the requirements - 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I put the question: 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 The Chairman  having reported accordingly- 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice: 
What further tax reforms affecting individuals and industry is the Government going to introduce as part of the New Federalism policy. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. The Minister representing the Minister for Defence might have something to add. Major-General Alan Stretton, the author of  Furious Days,  has criticised the communications systems in Darwin at the time of cyclone Tracy when various defence and other communications establishments suffered such extensive damage that communications from Darwin were cut off for several hours. What action has been taken to ensure that now and in the future communications, whether civil or defence, will be constructed so as to be able to transmit to the rest of Australia despite any cyclone or attack? 
In this debate on Thursday night I was referring to division 334, Northern Territory Hospitals, and to subdivision 1- Salaries and Payments in the nature of Salary. I do not want to make a second reading speech on this matter but I insist that the matter of the establishment of the Department of Health in the Northern Territory be looked at with some urgency. I indicated that the present staff ceiling of the Department is 2299 and that the actual number of people employed is 2274. 1 indicated that I felt that the authority was aware of its responsibility but perhaps not aware of the demands on the Department of Health now and in the future. Perhaps it is out of touch. I indicated the new facilities throughout the Northern Territory, at Alice Springs, Tennant Creek, Katherine and Darwin. One that I did not mention was Papunya. 
There has been much publicity in the Press about the health of the Aboriginal people. Professor Hollows is presently in the Northern Territory carrying out a survey on the health of the Aboriginal people, particularly of the children, in relation to trachoma and other conditions of the eyes, ears, nose and chest. As I have said before, the state of health of the Aboriginal people, particularly of the children, is alarming. Evidently this is due to contact with Europeans and did not occur before. Nevertheless, there is a tremendous demand on the Northern Territory Health Department and I doubt whether it is geared to accept its responsibilities and carry out its duty to bring about better health. 
In the last week or two I received an answer to question on notice No. 1075 which I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I asked about rural health centres in the Northern Territory, how many were being constructed, how many were in the planning stages, where the centres were situated, whether there were any staffing problems, what Aboriginal staff were being employed, whether any Aborigines were being trained and so on. The answer indicated that in the Northern Territory now there are 35 localities with health centres, either departmental or subsidised missions. These health centres are scattered over some 520 000 square miles. How can some 2000-odd people who have responsibilities throughout the Health Department and hospitals really be sufficient to handle all these health centres in extremely isolated areas? These 35 localities can be in places such as Alyangula, Amoonguna, Angurugu, Areyonga, Ayers Rock, Bamyili, Borroloola, Croker Island and elsewhere throughout the Northern Territory. In addition there are 1 8 other health centres on pastoral properties. 
Yes, and I hope that the Health Department servicing the Northern Territory can be everywhere too, but I have my doubts. There are 1 8 health centres on pastoral leases. Additional or replacement health centre facilities are being constructed at 9 localitiesDaly River, Docker River, Hooker Creek, Oenpelli and so on. One can see that the scope of the demand for health services in the Northern Territory is immense and it is impossible for the Health Department to service these various facilities in the Northern Territory while endeavouring to live within it establishment. I point out to those authorities and the Health Department that in answer to a question last week in which I was being rather critical of across the board cuts in the Public Service,  Senator Webster  indicated that any department or Minister who had reason to believe that within that department there was lack of efficiency through lack of numbers had every right to go to the Public Service Board or to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to ensure that within the establishment of that department there were sufficient people to carry out the duties of the department in an efficient manner. 
I make one further point before I sit down. While speaking on the establishment of health centres in the Northern Territory, it concerns me to see that there are 107 Aboriginal staff employed in departmental rural health centres and 68 employed in health centres. The answer to my question on notice states that of the 107 staff, 77 are formally enrolled in training programs. The point I want to make, and I believe it is legitimate, is that while there are 107 Aboriginal staff employed in the Northern Territorycertainly they do a very good job- on missions and settlements, if they resign, leave or are sick they are not replaced because of the across the board cuts. Under the regulations now operating any person who goes on leave, becomes sick or for any reason leaves his position is not replaced. I suggest that whilst we are trying to find employment for Aborigines in the Northern Territory, encourage them and assist them in education and health, gradually their numbers in the Northern Territory are dwindling and the across the board cuts in the Northern Territory are a washout, are not working and are not good for the health of the Northern Territory community. 

 - Senator Cavanagh has picked up the point very well. I have no argument with him. The example that I am giving of course is that of the Australian National Gallery and the High Court building. The point I am making is that I believe that in the estimating of costs of projects it should be on a fixed cost basis so that when the project comes before the Public Works Committeegiving it a little give-and-take of course- the Committee and the Government should have a somewhat realistic figure for the project. I have given this example only as an indication of why I think the whole matter should be reviewed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Government considering terminating the Australian National Line's coastal shipping service. If so, should the service to the northern ports, including Darwin, be discontinued, what other service would be available to supply northern Australia with goods, and materials, including heavy equipment, building supplies, etc. from southern ports. 
Will the Government give the same consideration to the freight cost problems of the north, as has been given to Tasmania. 
In the event of the services being curtailed, will the Government give serious consideration to making Darwin a free port so as to encourage overseas shipping to supply Darwin. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory been drawn to statements in the media, attributed to Major-General Stretton, that of a total of $ 15m raised for victims of Darwin's cyclone Tracy about $7m has not been accounted for? Can the Minister indicate whether the statement is true? 
I would like to make one or two points. The first relates to division 457, Northern Territory Legislative Assembly Executive- Staff and Services, item 01 of subdivision 2- Salaries and allowances. It is disappointing to see that no allowance has been made for a superannuation scheme for members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I take this opportunity to air the situation briefly. Some 18 months ago the Remuneration Tribunal went to the Northern Territory and made very firm recommendations that members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, like other members of Parliament, should have a superannuation scheme and a disablement allowance. Honourable senators may not realise that members of the Assembly have for many years received little by way of salaries and privileges. One of the things that has been most marked has been the lack of a superannuation scheme. As I said, the Remuneration Tribunal made a very firm recommendation to the Government that a scheme should be brought in as quickly as possible and that it should be back-dated. To date nothing has been done. I attended at the Remuneration Tribunal some 2 weeks ago, and its members were rather surprised that no action had been taken, seeing that a very firm recommendation had been made. As this is a firm recommendation, I would like to see the members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly given the right to have a disablement and superannuation scheme. I would like to see something done about it immediately. 
I refer now to division 459 which relates to Northern Territory Police and in particular to subdivision 1 dealing with salaries and payments in the nature of salary. As I said before when the Committee was discussing the matter with the officers of the Department- I repeat it now- I believe that the standard of law and order in the Northern Territory is insufficient. I do not intend going into the whole story of the establishment and so on, but I make the remark that the establishment of the Northern Territory police force must be reviewed along the lines of the McKinna report, which was the result of an inquiry into the Northern Territory police force some two or three years ago. Very few of the recommendations contained in that report have been carried out. One of the main recommendations that he made was to the effect that one-man police stations in the Northern Territory must cease to exist and that the police force strength must be increased to allow for one-man police stations to become 2-man police stations. That recommendation was made because of better means of communication, better roads and so on. But in the Northern Territory, like anywhere else these days, there is increased violence, and it is most unfair to ask a man and his wife to endeavour to keep law and order in some of these isolated areas. It is an impossible task. Also in these isolated areas which have only one policeman the occasion often arises when he has to leave his post. That occurs for very many reasons. I can assure the Senate that when that happens, in many places all hell breaks loose, and that is the only way in which to describe the situation. So I am once again airing the situation. Despite across the board cuts, and despite the fact that some people may think that the standard of law and order in the Northern Territory is sufficient, I say that most definitely it is not. 
I think we have to recognise the isolated communities of the Northern Territory. I refer to such places as Bathurst Island, Oenpelli, Elcho Island and other places which have communities of some 800, 1000 or 1200 people. They have no police protection. It has been their plea to the authorities for the last two or three years that police posts be established in those places to give them some semblance of law and order. I say some semblance of law and order' because places like Oenpelli are in a very poor state. AH forms of violence take place there, because of the lack of control over liquor and so on. The result is that many people are injured, women are bashed. If honourable senators want to hear more and see more about this situation I refer them to the report of the committee that visited the Northern Territory recently in which those facts are mentioned. However, I expect and hope to see due regard given to the situation next year. 
I now refer to the situation to which  Senator Wright  referred, namely, the appearance of  Mr Jones,  General Manager of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, before the Committee. I am relating my remarks now to division 460 which relates to the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. There was some misunderstanding during the hearings of this Committee about that amount of $600,000. Following the hearings of Estimates Committee E, a telex has been sent in these terms: 
Re Darwin Reconstruction Commission division 460. You asked about $600,000 allocation for consultants. Following information supplements my verbal statement 12 October. When estimates prepared Commission proposed to place number of projects involving town planning with consultants because of staff limitations. Fees for these projects with other tasks also proposed for consultants were estimated at $600,000. 
Subsequently we were able to obtain services of suitable planning staff in Department of Construction thus reducing amount required. However about same time we were served with writ by former consultants Technic 10 for about $700,000 (who have now offered to settle at approximately $300,000). As result of policy decision by Commission the services of this firm and four others were prematurely terminated from 30 September 1975. Claims by others were settled in 1975/76. Having regard to Commissions limited access to additional appropriation and advice from senior counsel it was considered prudent to not reduce the $600,000. We recently offered Treasury reduction in appropriation division 460 from $3,020,000 by $200,000 because of reduced staff ceiling. 
However I would agree with the comments made by  Senator Wright  as  Chairman  of Estimates Committee E that the explanation provided in relation to that particular line of expenditure was certainly open to question. As you can see,  Mr Chairman,  there has been considerable confusion. 
I refer very briefly to the Darwin Reconstruction Commission under division 255. As the Committee would know, this Commission has a short life. It is expected that in the next year or two it will have fulfilled its responsibilities and it will be absorbed into other organisations- I hope into a single housing construction authority incorporating the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, the Northern Territory Housing Commission and Department of Housing and so on. The point I make is that although this organisation will be short lived it attracted in its first year of operation a tremendous amount of criticism. It had a most difficult job. Today we can see the results of the efforts of many dedicated people who have been assisting in the rebuilding of Darwin following cyclone Tracy. It was indicated I think in answer to a question in the Senate a few weeks ago that under the rebuilding program the Commission is producing about 6 to 8 houses a day 7 days a week. I just take the opportunity to point this out because the DRC has had tremendous troubles with staffing and criticisms. In fact I think it was rather a top heavy commission to take on this job in the first place and was not quite necessary. The job could have been done by Territory departments. Despite that, the Commission has done a tremendous job. With the rate of progress in construction being carried out by the DRC we can see in Darwin many houses being made available. As I have indicated, it is no mean achievement to see about 40 to 50 houses or more now being handed over each week. It is to the Commission's credit. 
I refer to division 210, subdivision 2, item 08. My comments refer to a study of tourism and tourism in Canberra city. There was quite a discussion about tourism in Canberra with officers of the Department of the Capital Territory at a meeting of Estimates Committee E some two to three weeks ago. I have a tourist industry background. To me it appeared that if more interest were taken in tourism by authority in Canberra perhaps there would be a much bigger return to the city than it is getting now. I was quite surprised to learn from the discussion with the officers that the revenue- the money from the Budget- and the expenditure came very close to balancing. The only point I make is that now the Government is becoming more and more aware of the advantages of tourism in Australia there is a necessity to encourage Australians to see Australia and there is a necessity to encourage Australians to see Canberra. I suggest that there is ample scope in the system here to encourage more people to come here. Perhaps there would be a better balance of payments, if we wish to put it that way, if it could happen. Tourism in Canberra has every right to be encouraged. 
I refer now to the City Omnibus Service. I tried the service a few times in the last few weeks. I found it an excellent bus service. I suppose one could say that it is one of the better services if not the best service in Australia. It is disconcerting to see the tremendous cost of public transport to authority these days. Officers of the Department who appeared before the Estimates Committee were no doubt endeavouring to contain costs as much as possible. The subsidy this year is about $5.4m. No doubt next year there will be an increase. One can agree with their concern. The problem in Canberra, as far as I can see, is that there is an extremely difficult situation. It is a matter of passenger coach transport- public transport- versus the private car. There appears to me at the moment to be some sort of balance. If one wants to encourage a greater use of public transport certain things would have to be done. The public car parking areas in Canberra are on very valuable land. The revenue from parking fees would in no way compensate for the lost rental from this valuable land. However, I believe the transport problem here is a most difficult one. To me it appears to be in some degree of balance at the moment. An endeavour to take away the car parking spaces will have complications. The main point on which I wish to speak is my concern, similar to that of the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Wright,  about the erection of the National Gallery and High Court buildings. Once again there was considerable discussion with the officers of the department. As the  Chairman  of the Committee indicated, the original contract sum for the National Art Gallery was $13. 168m, and the total cost is now up to $27.368m, which is an increase of some 100 per cent. The rise and fall provision added $ 11.2m and the fixed costs associated with the extended period of the contract added $3m. The cost of the High Court building was originally estimated at $ 1 5m. When it went to contract it was $ 1 9m. The estimated cost now is $28.084m. This is once again a tremendous increase. We realise that in these days the rise and fall variation within contracts has increased tremendously because building costs in the last 2 years have risen astronomically. 
There are one or two points about the whole matter that need airing. I think I am correct in referring to the fixed costs associated with the extended period of contract for the National Art Gallery. It is my understanding that last year, when the Australian economy suffered severely from Budget cuts under the previous Government, a lot of government works were slowed up, curtailed or cut out. Slowing up the work on the National Art Gallery caused inconvenience to the contractor and the sub-contractors for the simple reason that it disrupted the work. A penalty rate was charged by the contractor. If I remember rightly- I do not have the figure in front of me- something like $4,000 a day was charged because of the slowing up of the job. In my estimation this added something like $750,000 to the cost of the project. If my figures are incorrect, I would like them to be corrected. 
Since I spoke to officers who appeared before the Estimates Committee I discussed a week or two ago with officers of the Department of Construction the estimated cost of a project. The original contract sum for the National Art Gallery was $13m, but over a period, for various reasons, the contract price increased. It is not the fault of the officers of the National Capital Development Commission, but I suggest that what is happening in many cases is that the client department asks for additional fixtures and fittings and for changes in the contract which are extremely costly. One can see that evidence in the High Court building. This evidence was given to Estimates Committee E: 
When we let the contract it was a little more than $19m. Since then there has been rise and fall on the job and there have been some significant additions to the contract. One, for example, is the security of the courts- the security provided around the buildings. 
My understanding is that that was an extremely costly addition. If I remember rightly, security measures were taken with the windows up to a height of 60 or 80 feet. It appears to me that a lot of the fault arises because once the original contract price is fixed there are so many additions to the contract that the price increases tremendously. 
I presume that the projects to which I have referred went before the Public Works Committee as they were to cost over $2m. I presume that in evidence before the Public Works Committee it was indicated that the estimated contract sum for the National Art Gallery was $ 1 3m. It has increased to $2 7m. It is completely wrong that a project should go before the Public Works Committee- I am only supposing this; I can be corrected if I am wrong- for confirmation by the Government for the funding of some $13m and that eventually it should be necessary to increase that sum by 100 per cent. If a project goes before the Public Works Committee there should be provided an estimate as close and as firm as possible of the cost of the projects so that the Committee can make a recommendation to the Government and the Government can know exactly what it is up for. You cannot tell me that projects would then be allowed to slip through which cost some 100 per cent more than the original estimate. As I said, it is an interesting point I would like the authorities in government to take up this point. I am suggesting that in some cases when a project is put forward only a basic price is given. In the case to which I referred it was 13m. When the initial application was made for funds, was the Government told that so much more money would be required? I doubt it. From talking to Department of Construction officials in the last fortnight it is my understanding that the Department of Construction is looking at procedures whereby a project budgeted for at a certain amount will have to be constructed at that amount and no additional funds will be available to client departments if they want to add this and that. This situation warrants the scrutiny of government to ensure that large projects like those I mentioned do not get out of hand. I suggest that this is what has happened. 
I accept the Minister's advice on this matter, but the point I am making, as I did before, is that there is a client department. To me it seems quite wrong that a client department can come in after the cost of a project has been given and ask for variations to be made to the project. Let me take as an example the Canberra court building. In that case there was a request for security provisions. I do not know what the cost was, but I am sure that it must have run into hundreds of thousands of dollars. All I am suggesting is that when a project is being put forward the whole cost should be indicated. It should not be open to a client department to come forward later, after a project has been funded and commenced, and ask for variations to the project which cost a considerable sum. That is what I am complaining about. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
When is it expected that tenders will be called for the sealing of the Erldunda-Ayers Rock Highway. 
-My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, refers to the Vietnamese vessel which arrived in Darwin yesterday, Wednesday, 10 November. Is the Minister in a position to indicate the Government's attitude to these refugees and what is their future in Australia? What assistance is being offered to them? Are the refugees family groups or single persons? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, refers to various statements made by Major-General Stretton in the last week in relation to cyclone Tracy, particularly in regard to his call for a royal commission into various aspects following the cyclone. What is the Government's attitude to a call for a royal commission? Is it a fact that MajorGeneral Stretton has been requested to make no further public statements? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With regard to the Minister's answer to Senate Question No. 729 relating to the re-siting of the railhead at Alice Springs in conjunction with the new standard gauge link from Port Augusta, (a) are the authorities able to indicate to what stage the planning has progressed, and (b) whether a firm indication can be given to the townspeople of Alice Springs as to where the railhead is to be sited. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education about vocational training for Aborigines in the Northern Territory. As a preamble to the question I would like to say that I believe that with the growing awareness of the need to have vocational training for Aborigines in the Northern Territory there appears to be some vying and possible overlapping of interest within government departments in the Northern Territory. I ask: Is the Minister able to make a statement on the negotiations between the relevant government departments concerning the future of vocational training for Aborigines in the Northern Territory? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory a question. The  Australian  of today's date contains the headline 'Uproar over Tracy Funds'. It makes several statements and allegations in regard to the possible misuse of Darwin relief funds and the lack of assistance to some people. My question is in 2 parts. Firstly, is it correct that the Government is taking action to recover bad debts amounting to some $30,000 for hostel fees? If so, what is the basis for the action? Secondly, is it correct that an estimated amount of $30m is to be spent on a cultural complex and that it is to be funded in part from the Darwin Relief Fund? If so, what is the background to this decision? 
I have been looking forward to this debate over the last few weeks, because to me and to many other people in Australia the Australian heritage is something to be preserved. It is with some regret that tonight I have had to put up with some of the remarks that have been made by  Senator Keeffe.  It is not my wish to get down into the dirt on any situation. Tonight I propose to speak about our national heritage and I propose to speak about the Northern Territory. I propose to speak about sacred sites and so on. First of all, I must say that I will not answer  Senator Keeffe  point by point; but I must say, because  Senator Keeffe  has asked me to take part in a public debate on television or radio in the Northern Territory, Queensland or wherever he wishes, that I am quite happy to accept, because seldom do I get the opportunity- in fact I have never had the opportunity- to debate with  Senator Keeffe  outside this place the issues of the Northern Territory and the people of the Northern Territory. Quite frankly, if that is a challenge I will enjoy taking it up because I speak as a person who has lived in the Northern Territory for 47 years. I came to the Territory as a lad whose father had gone through the depression. I, like most people in Australia and in the Territory whose parents had suffered through the Depression, came up the hard way. But in coming up the hard way I have made many friends. I have many friends within the Aboriginal community in the Northern Territory, despite what  Senator Keeffe  had to say. I think he even went so far a week or so ago as to say that that was the first kind thing that he had heard me say regarding Aborigines. Of course,  Senator Keeffe  does not know me. He does not know my family. He does not know me as a Territorian. If he chooses to come to the Northern Territory with me sometime, perhaps he will find that he would retract statements such as those that he has made. In fact, I find it quite an honour that people of the Aboriginal race-when I talk of the Aboriginal race I am talking about the full-blood Aboriginal race- have honoured me by taking my name. I think that is an achievement and, for that reason, I can claim that I am a friend of the Aboriginal people.  Senator Keeffe  is always welcome to visit my house in Alice Springs. If he comes to Alice Springs he can share a meal with any of the guests who are at my place. In doing so, he will be sharing a meal with the Aboriginal peoplethe traditional people of the Northern Territory. However, enough of that. 

 Senator Keeffe said that this Government is now a political arm of the bulldozer developers. Let us get off this plane completely and let us consider what this legislation is all about. What we are debating tonight is the National Estate and the part that Australia- the Federal Government, the State governments and the communityhave started to play- team work is what is needed- to save what is left of our National Estate. What has happened is not the fault of this Government, the last Government or previous governments. Over tens of years our National Estate has been eroded, for many reasons. We should examine what has happened in our short history of less than 200 years to see what we have lost already. If one is not ashamed one must be sorry that in this brief period- these last few tens of years- we have lost in many places what our pioneering forebears have done in Australia, and what should have been a monument to them has been lost. 
Last year I had the opportunity of moving around various countries overseas. At that stage I was a member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. In visiting some of these countries I was filled with admiration for what had been done. Some of them had centuries of history-possibly 1000, 2000 or 3000 years of history- and it was interesting to see what they had done and how they had retained their National Estate. One can pick out so many places in the world in which this has happened. If one looks at a country such as the United States of America one can see how it has retained its history and its villages, how it has taken pride in what its forebears have done. I think of Boston and what has been done there. When one walks around sections of Boston one is taken back one or two centuries to the Freedom Trial and so on. One can visit Rome, England and places like that to see how much has been retained. Despite the fact that we come from those countries, we have destroyed so much in our brief life in Australia, those brief 200 years. 
As I said earlier, I looked forward to this debate, not only because I recognised that we have to save our national heritage, but also because I wanted to see legislation being introduced in which the Federal Government played a role, the State Government play a role and also- to ensure that the legislation works- the community play a role. I hope that the community becomes more aware of what it is losing, that we do have a heritage and that we have it to look after. Much has been said about this legislation and whether there should be so many people on the Commission, whether its membership should be increased or not increased and whether it will give a proper coverage of representation of people in Australia. Despite the fact that the membership of the Commission has been reduced from nineteen to seven, the facts are, as the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs  (Senator Carrick)  said in his second reading speech: 
The conservation and improvement of the National Estate does not depend solely, or even principally, on the expenditure of vast sums of public moneys. Fundamentally, the responsibility for protecting the National Estate is one that rests on the whole community, including governments. Proper attitudes, sound planning, and enlightened  decisonmaking  taking account of all the facts, is the whole basis of responsible environmental protection. In respect to future appropriations for National Estate purposes, the Government will be of course seeking the advice of the Commission. 
The Commission will be required to give positive and comprehensive advice to the Government on the whole range of ways in which particular elements of the National Estate can be protected. As its first task, the Commission will proceed urgently with the preparation of the register of the National Estate so that priorities can be examined on a factual and systematic basis, and not piecemeal. 
I think that is the whole matter in a nutshell. A teamwork effort is needed to create this register which will index all the various areas and projects that will come under the National Estate. Priority will be given to some matters after examination. I believe that an urgent need exists for this register and indexing. I believe that urgent priority needs to be given to some projects now which could disappear forever, if not dealt with quickly. I believe that with the passage of this legislation this may be brought about. One of the pitiful things one notices when moving around Australia these days is to see, particularly in the development of the cities- I am not relating it to any government because it is a community problem- but also in the country, that the fine old historical pieces that should be with us forever are being lost overnight to a developer who can see that by removing a building he may make a profit of $10,000, $20,000 or $50,000. 1 think that is a crime. 
I support the remarks made by  Senator Mulvihill  in this debate. He also indicated his concern that this work should be carried out as quickly as possible before any further historic pieces are lost. I commend the report of the Hope Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate. I have found it one of the most interesting documents or reports that I have read for a long time. I say this despite the fact that we probably get some ten to twenty reports a day in our various Senate offices. Probably one of my biggest ambitions is to see a report introduced to safeguard Australia's National Estate. So I commend  Mr Justice  Hope. One could go on for hours discussing the various aspects of the report. I shall refer to one or two parts of the report, particularly to chapter 5 which deals with Aboriginal sites and other special areas. I shall now be parochial to a degree because this involves the Northern Territory, which I have known since I was a child of 6 years of age. It is to chapter 5 that I shall devote a few remarks which will apply to the Northern Territory. In the Northern Territory we have 2 cultures to retain and to safeguard. Firstly, we have the Aboriginal culture, which is probably one of the oldest in the world, if not the oldest. 
It must be protected, and it is the duty of every Australian, regardless of political parties, to see that it is protected. As I was saying, I believe that this culture is probably one of the oldest, if not the oldest in the world. The experts say that depending on the race at which we are looking, we are looking at a period some 10 000 years, 20 000 years or 30 000 years ago. It is my belief that in the Northern Territory of Australia we are considering not one race but probably two. There is evidence to show that about 20 000 years ago there was another race living in the north of Australia. The old Aboriginal people, the traditional owners about whom we are always talking, have no memory of these people in their minds. When I say 'in their minds' I refer of course to the fact that Aboriginal culture is extremely deep within the Aboriginal people and it is passed from generation to generation. They have a culture that I would say is far beyond ours. But there is nothing in their history that relates to some of the rock carvings that one finds in the Northern Territory, such as those at Cleland Hills, Ooraminna some 20 miles south of Alice Springs and Nhgala Gorge, some 40 to 50 miles west of Alice Springs. There one sees some very fine rock carvings which it is quite obvious must be of some immense age- as I said before, perhaps they are some 20 000 years old. They are now not protected and one would think that in a country such as ours or any other country that has work of arts of such antiquity there should be some safeguards. In a little while I shall tell honourable senators why these safeguards have not been introduced. Once again I commend the Hope report. Dealing with Aboriginal sites, at page 1 66 it states: 
White Australians' lack of knowledge about and regard for the culture of Australian Aboriginals have been a major factor in the decline of Aboriginal tradition, arts, crafts and ways of living. 
There can be no contest with that statement. The report goes on to state. 
The great problems besetting the survival of Aboriginal traditional culture in the context of the white Australians wholly different and rapidly changing society must not blind us to the need for its preservation in as complete a form as possible. This is not only our responsibility and the Aboriginals' right, but a national and indeed international duty. 
Once again, there can be no disregarding that advice. Chapter 5 states as the third point: 
The world has much of importance to learn from Aboriginal culture, not only from the anthropological but from the social viewpoint. Research has shown a remarkable degree of continuity and cultural homogeneity throughout the continent extending back more than 30 000 years. 
The problem these days is that with the development of our civilisation and communications- I am talking of the Northern Territory now- and with our beef roads, our 4-wheel drive vehicles and our ability to get into many isolated parts of the country, there is danger of this art and culture being destroyed. Perhaps it is destroyed not deliberately but purely through the fact that many people go to see it. In many places and on many occasions there have been criticisms relating to the legislation on this matter that still applies in the Northern Territory. That legislation is the Native and Historic Objects Preservation Ordinance 1955. 1 believe it is a fact that many do not realise that this ordinance was the first of its kind to be introduced anywhere in Australia. Certainly there was no legislation in this field in the Federal sphere. 
I was in the Northern Territory Legislative Council on the particular day when this ordinance was introduced by a private member, not by the government. In those days the Legislative Council was a very small type of legislature. It had more nominated people than elected people, but it was the elected people of the day who decided that the Aboriginal culture and art should be protected. When one looks back now at the legislation perhaps one thinks it was a rather pitiful effort, but at least it was an effort to safeguard the interests of these objects. Of course since this ordinance was introduced one hears time and time again, particularly in these Houses of Parliament, the criticism that the Northern Territory has done nothing to look after these objects and that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, as it is now called, has done nothing to look after these objects. But one must understand that in passing the legislation in the Legislative Council the responsibility was not left there; I stress that the responsibility was then taken over by the Executive. The Northern Territory does not have an Executive. The administration of and responsibility for this legislation is handled by the Federal Government. 
Despite the fact that over the years there have been difficulties in looking after these objects, some of the responsibility must rest in the Federal sphere because that is where the Executive is. It is responsible for the administration of the Northern Territory. People in the Northern Territory are not happy about it. That is why there is now a transfer of powers from the Federal Executive to the Territory Legislative Assembly. Once the people have some say in their own affairs there will be some changes in the Northern Territory. For too long the Territory has been in limbo. No matter what has been said or what has been built, the Federal sphere is where the decisions have been taken, whether by the Parliament or by the Executive. The people of the Northern Territory have had little say in the matter. The Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has had little say. While it has endeavoured to do things for the Northern Territory it has been controlled by the Executive and by Federal veto. 
Let us look at the problems. I do not think a lot of people realise the problems involved in safeguarding Aboriginal sacred sites. To recognise a sacred site one has to be aware of it. Take the position in the Nhulunbuy area. Through the build-up of a European type township people have been made aware of a sacred site. Other sacred sites could be in a tourist area. Thousands of sacred sites in the Northern Territory are still not known to white people. They are known by the Aboriginal people, naturally, because the sites are theirs. Because of Aboriginal law this generation or the last generation could not come forward and say to the white people: 'Would you like to see our sacred site?' This has happened on one or two occasions when an Aboriginal person has shown a sacred site to a white person, but that Aboriginal person has broken Aboriginal law. This should not happen under Aboriginal law. One of the problems will be to ensure that their sites are properly protected. There will be a reluctance on the part of Aboriginal people to show white people their sacred sites. 
A certain amount of work has been done. A certain amount of indexing and registering of various sites has been carried out. It has not been carried out by the Northern Territory Executive because there has not been one. It has been carried out by the Federal Executive. Some of the work has been carried out by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. A lot of this indexing work has been carried out by  Mr Ted  Evans in the Nhulunbuy area. I think  Senator Keeffe  made the point a little while ago about the inroads into their sacred sites and culture there. A certain amount was done there in 1969 and 1970 by Eric Brandl and Ted Milliken of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I believe that quite a deal of indexing and preparation work has been done. A considerable amount of research work was done by the old Welfare Division of the Department of the Interior. With all the work that has been done, why have only a handful of sites been declared and safeguarded? I will give a very simple reason why more sites have not been declared. The Territory is an isolated area. As a Territory under Commonwealth departments it has had its restrictions. Despite the pleas of people in the Northern Territory and of the Legislative Assembly for rangers, inspectors and people to safeguard these areas, there has been a degree of reluctance to provide this staff. 
The  per capita  subsidy for the Territory is considerable. Also the Northern Territory has one of the highest returns to revenue per person in Australia. So it balances, to a degree. I am not suggesting that the  per capita  subsidy for the Territory is relevant in this case. We are talking about safeguarding sacred sites. The point I was about to make was this: If a sacred site is known and gazetted- there are some- and a sign saying 'Keep out, you are not allowed on this sacred site as it belongs to Aboriginal people' is put up, immediately the site become known to everyone under the sun. What happens? A multitude of people, some in 4-wheel drive vehicles, some with cameras, some who chip away little bits of rock on rock carvings invade the site, and the carvings are damaged. Why does this happen? It happens because there are not sufficient inspectors or rangers in the Northern Territory to safeguard the sites. So we must judge what comes first. It is no use criticising the fact that there are only a handful of sites. 
The answer is this: We must agree that the sacred sites have to be safeguarded. Like many other people in the Territory, I would be to the fore in wanting the sites protected. The problem is that the sites are in isolated areas. There must be sufficient survey staff so that the area which is to be protected can be indicated in the  Gazette.  That is the first step. We have gone through this argument in relation to land trusts and so on, and we will do so again. This is one of the common problems. Firstly the site must be surveyed. Once it is surveyed and gazetted it must have protection, whether it is by rangers or inspectors under this legislation, under Territory legislation or under other legislation. Once the site is made known, people must be on the spot to protect it. Naturally we must have people of authority. I suggest that these people of authority could be Aboriginal people because it is in their interests that their culture be retained. They could be assisted by European rangers, inspectors and so on. I think it would be an extremely good thing if Aboriginal people were employed in such a manner. 
We cannot jump to conclusions. I talk about an isolated area. It is all right to say that someone must go there, survey it and then it has to be gazetted, but some of these places are extremely isolated. People have to be attracted out into these areas. It is an immense problem. When we approach this problem, all I ask is this: Do not count the number of gazetted reserves as an indication of success. If we do we could help to destroy various places. It is much better to encourage the Aboriginal people, the traditional people, to retain their sites by Aboriginal law. For many years to come many of these will not be available for the ordinary person to see. For the benefit of the Aboriginal people, in encouraging them to retain their culture and their lore we should not press them to make these sites known. That would raise complications. I am suggesting that it is best to encourage them to  retain these  within their memory of Aboriginal lore. 
There is not much more I wish to say, other than to indicate that there is a vast problem. Many remarks have been made, not specifically in this chamber, by many people about the problems of Aborigines and about retaining and safeguarding Aboriginal lore, but so many people do not understand the subject. I commend the various organisations and people working in this field. They include the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment. 

 - Colonel Rose is an outstanding person. He is the  Chairman  of the Northern Territory Reserves Board. He has given many years of his life to that Board and particularly to the preservation of many of the Aboriginal sites that are known in the Northern Territory, particularly at Ayers Rock. Ayers Rock has some very fine Aboriginal paintings. Those paintings have been fairly well protected. The first ranger at Ayers Rock was Bill Harney, who wrote the mythology on Ayers Rock. I think he was the first ranger in the Northern Territory. Since then there have been many inspectors and rangers in that area. I agree with  Senator Mulvihill  that  Colonel Rose  has contributed tremendously to what has been achieved in the Northern Territory. 
I support the legislation. No doubt, if one looks at it one can see various points in relation to which one could pinprick and in relation to which we could have a difference of opinion in the Senate. I believe that it is the result of work by the present Government and the previous Government. I do not think we should have shots at each other about the qualifications of each government in this sphere. Let us look upon it as a joint effort. In the future let the Senate and the Parliament ensure that this legislation is carried forward with as much priority as possible to ensure that what is left of our heritage is retained. 
I have spoken briefly on sacred sites. Of course, there is another aspect. When I was in Darwin last weekend I spoke to people who are extremely interested in the first settlements in Australia. The first British settlement in the Top End was at Melville Island in 1824. After that, a settlement was established at Fort Dundas more than 150 years ago, and Port Wellington was developed at about the same time. I am talking about the period from 1824 to 1849. At Victoria settlement even now there are buildings that should be retained. They are historic sites- relics of one of our first settlements in the northern part of Australia, going back to 1824. The settlement is 150 years old; yet, despite the ravages of souvenir hunters and wear and tear on buildings over a period of 1 50 years, the buildings are Stil there. If something is not done with the cemetery there within a year or two it will be further eroded. We have a responsibility to our Aboriginal friends, who are part of Australia and part of the community, and their heritage and culture. We also have a responsibility to look after our own in Australia. It is my hope, as I have said before, that this legislation will be passed as quickly as possible so as to ensure that what we have left now- we certainly are losing it by the year- will be restored and retained. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice 
1 ) Was it reported approximately two weeks ago that there had been trouble at the Docker River Settlement, Northern Territory and some damage had been caused to the new health clinic in that Settlement. If so, will the Minister investigate the situation and report to the Senate the reasons for the violence and what damage was sustained to the health clinic. 
Has the health clinic at Docker River been used. 
Are there any nursing sisters at Docker River to serve the community and staff the health clinic. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What action does the Government intend to take in regard to winding up the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. 
What authority is to take over the role of the Commission. 
Will the Government consider setting up an authority merging the activities and roles of the Commission, the Northern Territory Housing Commission and the Department of Construction into a single Northern Territory Housing Authority. 
asked the Minister repesenting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are the 121 officers to be recruited for the Northern Territory Division of the Department of Health to be a part of the present Departmental establishment, or is the staff ceiling to be lifted to enable staffing of projects in the final stages of construction in the Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report by the Australian Broadcasting Commission on the extensive bush fires a few weeks ago, where it was said that in the Nutwood Downs area of the Northern Territory the Chief Fire Controller had stated that there was a lack of co-ordination and liaison between personnel fighting the fire and that this was instanced by two grader drivers who could not use their machines for several hours until given the direction by a senior person. 
Will the Minister have the matter investigated with a view to attaining the utmost of efficiency in the system to help protect isolated northern areas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister read paragraphs 77 and 78 of the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs titled 'Alcohol Problems of Aborigines- Northern Territory Aspects '. 
What action is to be taken, bearing in mind that there has been no Government action since the report was tabled in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in 1 973. 
Has this lack of action added to further deterioration in the Northern Territory, particularly as no amendments to the Licensing Ordinance to set up a Liquor Commission have been drafted, despite the numerous requests by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It is estimated that some 25 000 Australians are now using citizen band radio and are unlicensed to do so. Having in mind that citizen band operators are licensed in other parts of the world- as an example, it is reported that some 13 million CB transmitters in the United States of America are licensed and have been accommodated on 40 channels- what is the attitude of the Australian Government to bringing about a licensing scheme to allow CB operators in this country to operate legally? Will the Government introduce legislation to legalise CB operators, recognising that CB radio is a part of every day communication and can contribute substantially to communications in this vast continent? 
The fact that I live in the centre of Australia a thousand miles from the sea does not prevent me from getting the urge to join in this debate. Of course there are no shipwrecks in the centre of Australia, though there may be other wrecks. Many of us who joined in the debate on the Australian Heritage Commission Amendment Bill in the last 2 weeks indicated our interest in the preservation of our historical objects, buildings and so on. Today, we are debating the Historic Shipwrecks Bill. Like the Australian Heritage Commission Amendment Bill, the Historic Shipwrecks Bill is a most essential piece of legislation. It is designed to protect known shipwrecks and those yet to be found. One feels sorry that it has taken so long for this type of legislation to be brought into the Federal Parliament and enacted. We have seen various efforts within the States that have proven successful to some degree, but it has taken a long time for Australia to face up to producing this legislation to protect historic shipwrecks. 

 Senator Archer referred to various books that he had read. Recently I read an article in the  Hemisphere,  volume 18, No. 8, of August 1974. 1 will read part of the article which I think illustrates the excitement and hardiness of ship's navigators and crews in earlier days. The article mentions the Dutch ships referred to in the Agreement Between the Netherlands and Australia Concerning Old Dutch Shipwrecks. It reads: 
The remains of five Dutch ships wrecked during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries on the western coast of Australia mark the Hollanders' way to the East Indies. Freighted deep with valuable merchandise, building materials and chests of silver, the galleons, outward bound from the Netherlands in three fleets every year, rolled their way eastward. Homeward bound, the East Indiamen carried equally costly cargoes of pepper, cinnamon and clovesworth their weight in gold to spice-hungry Europe- and exotic luxury goods from all the countries of Asia. Other vessels, apart from those in the regular fleets, sailed in convoys throughout the year to carry on the commerce which was the foundation of Holland 's greatness in Europe. 
They plied one of the world's richest sea-routes; outward bound round the Cape of Good Hope, then via the southern Indian Ocean and the western coast of Australia to Java and the Moluccas. Homeward bound, they sailed by way of Mauritius and the Cape. The Dutch trade routes to and from the East Indian archipelago thus approximated a vast triangle stretching right across the Indian Ocean. Within that triangle many ships were lost during the two centuries. But, in all those years, only five vessels were reported wrecked on the inhospitable coast of New Holland, as Australia was then called. 
During the past eleven years, skindivers have succeeded in locating and identifying four of those five lost ships; they are the  Batavia  (1629);  Vergulde Draeck  (1656),  Zuytdorp  (1712) and the Zeewijk ( 1727). Unfortunately, however, as all these vessels were known to have carried chests of silver coinage, when their remains were located they fell prey to unscrupulous treasure hunters. 
Three wrecks were discovered between April and July 1963, which was, therefore, a crucial year in Australian underwater archaeology. Something had to be done to protect the wrecks from skindiving vandals. Legislation was prepared, and in November 1964 the Western Australian State Parliament passed the Museum Amendment Act, popularly known as 'the Wreck Act ', by which the Western Australian Museum was made the legal custodian of all wrecks scheduled as being of historical importance. 
Relics so far recovered by scientific excavation are of such quality and variety as to elevate the wrecks to a high level of international significance. Needless to say, they are also of tremendous local interest, for their stories are part of the saga of Australian maritime exploration. 
Debate interrupted. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Australia, and in particular Western Australia, is and will continue to be rich in maritime history. There has been much criticism about the plundering of historic wrecks and the way in which people in their enthusiasm to discover wrecks and exploit them have caused considerable damage. At the same time we must recognise that over the years many dedicated people, people with feelings, have endeavoured to save as many of these historic wrecks and their contents as possible. I commend particularly the Maritime Museum in Fremantle. It was my pleasure this year to be able to go through that museum and see the work that these dedicated people have carried out. I suggest that anyone who has not been to this museum would find it very rich in Australian maritime history of the Western Australian coast.. 
The Bill defines 'historic shipwreck'. It says that this term will automatically include all the Dutch shipwrecks. It also includes the remains of a ship declared to be of historic significance under clause 5(1) or provisionally declared under clause 6(1). In reading that definition it calls to my mind the situation in the Northern Territory. I do not know of any historic shipwrecks in the Northern Territory which come within the classification of the shipwrecks we are discussing under this legislation, such as the Dutch shipwrecks of some 300 to 400 years ago. As far as I know we do not have any such wrecks in the Territory. The Macassars and various people came down to our northern shores over some hundreds of years but there is little or practically nothing left to indicate their presence, other than mounds of shells and so on. 
In discussing historic shipwrecks we must consider what is an historic shipwreck. I suggest that even ships which were wrecked in the last war could be classified as historic wrecks. I call to mind a Japanese submarine that was sunk some 110 kilometres north-west of Darwin in relatively shallow water. This Japanese submarine, No. 1-124, was sunk on 20 January 1942 by United States and Australian warships. There were no survivors and the submarine, which contains the remains of its crew, has since lain on the floor of Australia's continental shelf, about 20 kilometres south of Bathurst Island. Over the years, particularly the last few years, interested people have seen fit to endeavour to enter the submarine. As it is of no commercial value I would suggest - 
That was suggested but it has not been proved. I suggest it is of no commercial value. The only reasons for entering this Japanese submarine, which I suggest ought to be looked on as a war grave, are sensation and plundering. To my mind this submarine also should be protected by law. Perhaps it is different from the Dutch ships of 300 to 400 years ago because there is this agreement between the Australian and the Netherlands governments. I think that at present this submarine has no legal protection. Having heard that entry may have been gained to the submarine- and there has been suggestion that one or two articles or gear have been taken off it- the Japanese are very distressed that this should happen. I think I can do no better than read a Press statement which was put out by  Mr Sinclair  when he was Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs when I endeavoured to initiate some action some few weeks ago to ensure that a person in Darwin who had been endeavouring to enter the submarine should desist. The statement reads in part: 
The Australian Government shares the view of the Japanese Government that the submarine and the remains of its crew should be regarded as a war grave, and that it should be left to lie in peace. The Australian Government also agrees with the view of the Japanese Government that the submarine remains the property of the Japanese State, and that no other parties have any right to it. 
Earlier plans to salvage the submarine by salvage companies and individuals operating from Australia were apparently abandoned following a statement of similar concern by the previous Government in 1 974. 
It is to be commended for that. However, a person in Darwin has recently begun new preparations to salvage the submarine. The statement continues: 
Australians can sympathise with the feelings of the Japanese people for the protection of the remains of their servicemen. Indeed, Australians would react in a similar way if any attempt were made to disturb, for example, the wreck of HMAS Perth lying in the Sunda Strait near Java, and the remains of its Australian crew. 
If one wished to carry that thought forward one could think of the  Repulse  and the  Prince of Wales  in the Strait of Malacca off Singapore. The statement continues: 
The Australian Government believes that any interference with the submarine would cause great distress to the families of its crew in Japan and could harm the friendly relations existing between the Australian and Japanese people'. 

 Mr Sinclair added that the Australian Government was in touch with the Japanese Government about the legal consequences of any interference with the submarine or its contents should such action be taken without the express consent of the Japanese Government. 
As I see it, we are now protecting those ships which had been destroyed by storm and in various other ways some 300 or 400 years ago. I suggest that this submarine should also be looked upon by Australia as an historic wreck. To my mind the legal situation is somewhat clouded at present. Perhaps there is no legal situation. I understand that the Australian Government and the Japanese Government are discussing the matter. I suggest that all necessary action be taken to ensure that this submarine is also looked upon as an historic shipwreck or at least as a war memorial so that the submarine cannot be tampered with in the future. 
I support the legislation, as I indicated previously. I am extremely interested in seeing that we protect what we have left of our Australian history, whether it be through the Australian Heritage Commission or through legislation such as that which we are considering on historic shipwrecks. I hope that this legislation will ensure that all those wrecks are protected. I think it has been said already that some SOO wrecks have been found and identified and that another 1S00 known sunken ships are waiting to be discovered. I hope that the legislation is enacted as quickly as possible to ensure that these wrecks and their contents are safeguarded for the future. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did a report on fishing in Gove, by  Mr Noel  Whitehead, claim that the number of fish poisoning cases from Ciguatera appear to be growing more numerous since 1972, and that to date over sixty cases, some extremely severe, have been reported in this particular area. If so, are people in Gove most reluctant to eat fish caught in the area. 
Will the Minister, using the resources of his Department, have Ciguatera investigated. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. The Northern Territory Supreme Court Amendment Bill will enable the appointment of a fourth resident judge in the Northern Territory whose time, it has been indicated, will be taken up mainly on the investigation of Aboriginal land claims. If this legislation is to be passed in the near future, is the Government in a position to indicate when the fourth judge will be appointed and the name of the person to be appointed? 
Has the Minister representing the Attorney-General any further information in regard to the appointment of the fourth judge for the Northern Territory? Who is the person who is to be appointed? 
I move: 
Clause5, after paragraph (d) of sub-clause (2) insert the following paragraph: (da) action that a person employed in the Public Service of the Northern Territory as a member of the staff of the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory takes, or purports to take, by virtue of his being a member of that staff; '. 
Briefly by way of explanation, Part II of the Bill deals with the establishment, functions, powers and duties of the Ombudsman. Clause 5 sets out the functions of the Ombudsman. Clause 5 (2) says that the Ombudsman is not authorised to investigate action taken by a Minister, action taken by a justice or judge of a court created by the Parliament, and so on. The purpose of my amendment is to provide that the Ombudsman is not authorised to investigate action by an employee of the Public Service of the Northern Territory as a member of the staff of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. This matter was brought up in the second reading debate. Clause 3 (1) in the definition of 'Department', excludes departments of the Houses of Parliament. It is for that reason that I have moved this amendment. 
I support this legislation with continued enthusiasm. I say 'continued enthusiasm' because it was some 12 years ago that I first supported a move for an ombudsman in Australia. A lot of people in the Federal house do not know that the first move for an ombudsman in Australia took place in the Northern Territory Legislative Council in 1965. This was some 2 to 3 years after the ombudsman was appointed in New Zealand. In those days the people of the Northern Territory had very little say on matters affecting the Northern Territory. They felt aggrieved to such a degree that between 1966 and 1972 there were 6 Bills passed by that minor legislature to set up an investigation of administrative actions- an ombudsman- and every one of those Bills was not assented to by the Governor-General. In those days the people of the Territory felt that they had little say in their own affairs. They were completely under the domination of the Commonwealth departments and the Federal government. So as a way of overcoming their problem they set up a committee by a resolution of the Legislative Council to investigate administrative actions. I remember that in the 1960s I was a member of that committee. 
However, the Federal government in those days did not agree with the principle of an ombudsman for the Northern Territory and it took out an order to stop these 5 Legislative Councillors from operating as an administrative action committee. What we did after this motion was passed by the Legislative Council was advertise to the people of the Northern Territory that if they had a problem all they had to do was see this committee and it would take up the matter. So the Federal government saw fit to make an order for this committee of five to desist. Then of course it had to find the 5 people in the Northern Territory which consists of over half a million square miles. I well remember that over a fortnight the police endeavoured to find the people and had some tremendous difficulty doing so. I think I was the final one to be given this order. 
We had to make an arrangement by phone to meet so that they could serve the order on me. I take the part of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in so many things, but a lot of people here do not realise the thought and the forward thinking which has occurred over the years in the Territory. They were the first to introduce land rights, as I have mentioned, although Federal action froze the initial moves. In this case, when the Assembly tried to appoint an ombudsman for the Northern Territory, that was also refused. Probably the first man in Australiaand I should like to have his name recorded in the Federal  Hansard- to  take any concrete action in relation to the appointment of an ombudsman was a person called  Mr Harold  Brennan, MLC. Even today many people know Tiger' Brennan, the man with the cigar and the tiger-hunting hat, a very fierce man, a man who fought for the small people whom he represented in his electorate in the Northern Territory. In those days, and I am speaking of 1965, he was thinking the sorts of things which people are thinking today. In the Northern Territory Legislative Council  Hansard  of 8 March 1966,  Mr Brennan  said, and I think this indicates his thinking: 
Now,  Mr President,  I live to fight another day in the same battle all over again for the right of everyone, no matter who he may be, to get a fair go and just treatment from the government and the administration of the day. We know the government in the Territory, more so than in other parts of Australia, is growing more complex from day to day. Governments are becoming more involved in private undertakings. The intrusion of Canberra into local government and into the lives and affairs of the ordinary citizen is multiplying, and will keep on doing so unless it stifles itself. 
These intrusions are meant primarily for the benefit of the country as a whole, but in very many instances that is not the case. The nature of the intrusion into the life of the ordinary man by Canberra and local government is such that all sorts of positions are created that greatly affect the lives of the average, common man. 
This was very well described by the Right Hon. Lord Shawcrofts before the British section of the International Commission of Jurists in 1 96 1 , when he said- 
With the existence of a great bureaucracy there are inevitably occasions, not insignificant in number, when through error or indifference injustice is done, or appears to be done. 
The man of substance can deal with these situations. He is near to the establishment. He enjoys the status or possesses the influence which will ensure him the ear of those in authority. He can afford to purchase such legal remedies as may be available. He knows his way around. But too often the little man, the ordinary humble citizen, is incapable of asserting himself.' 
These,  Mr President,  are the people I am worried about. These are the people whose cause I am espousing- the little man, the ordinary humble citizen- and when I say man, you can interpose woman wherever applicable. Injustices, whether real or imaginary, must be undone. Every effort must be made to undo any imaginary injustice. Every com- plaint must be looked into to see if it is legitimate or not. If l egitimate, it must be attended to and justice must be done. Under the existing system, which has controlled the lives of Territorians since time immemorial, we have had no means of doing that. 
It is with continuing enthusiasm that I support this legislation in a different arena. The first attempt in Australia to introduce an ombudsman was in the Northern Territory, but because it was a territorial situation I believe there would have been difficulties and they could not have been sure of the extent to which the ombudsman could relate to the actions of the Commonwealth Public Service under a Territory Ordinance. The Bill before the Senate gives a complete right of examination of all actions of public servants, Commonwealth and Territory, and all statutory bodies, Commonwealth or Territory. This Bill provides for an ombudsman and 2 deputy ombudsmen, and I and most people in the Territory believe that it is a very acceptable situation. 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack),  who introduced the legislation, recognises that the Territory is now developing and that at some time in the future, in perhaps 4, 5 or 6 years, the Territory will become a State. The transfer of powers will commence on 1 January, and the Territory is climbing the ladder of responsibility. I believe that this Bill will have to be amended when the Territory finally becomes a State. As a State it will be able to pass legislation in its own right, as do the other States of Australia, and provide an ombudsman for whatever the Northern Territory is called when it becomes a State. 
Over the last month I have considered the Bill which is now before the Senate and which has considerable ramifications for the Northern Territory, and I have approached the Government with a request that 2 amendments should be made to the Bill. The first amendment relates to clause 3(1), where the word 'Department' is defined. The definition excludes the Commonwealth Departments of the Houses of Parliament, and I believe that paragraph (b) of that definition should be amended to exclude from the Territory Public Service the Department of the Legislative Assembly, because the Assembly is a parliament. The Government has agreed to that amendment and in a letter to me the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  stated: 
The Government will agree to an amendment to the effect that the Department of the Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory Public Service will be excluded from the jurisdiction of the Ombudsman. 
At a suitable time during the Committee stage I will move that amendment. 
The second amendment which I proposed has not received sufficient support. It related to clause 18 (5), which provides that the Ombudsman may forward to the  Speaker  for tabling in the Legislative Assembly a copy of the report sent to the Minister on consideration of a Territory matter. I put forward that the word 'may' should be amended to 'shall', thus ensuring that the Assembly is made aware of all matters in the Territory which were not rectified and which require reporting to the Minister. However, while the Government is prepared to accept my first amendment, which I think is a reasonable one and which I hope receives the support of the Senate, it has indicated that the amendment to clause 18 (5) is not acceptable. It was stated that clause 17 deals with an analogous situation and enables the Ombudsman to exercise his discretion in relation to the reports he makes. Under clause 1 7 he still has to inform the Prime Minister of a situation in which adequate or appropriate corrective action was not taken. Similarly, under sub-clause 18 (5) he may decide to report a matter to the Minister for the Northern Territory. That approach is consistent with the broad range of discretions given to the ombudsman through this Bill. In view of that explanation, I will not continue with my proposed amendment. 
I support the legislation, I believe that it is extremely desirable for the people of the Northern Territory because they are still in a somewhat difficult situation. Whilst they have a Legislative Assembly, at the moment it has no powers. The people of the Territory come under the control of the Federal Government to a degree, and particularly under the control of Federal departments, which I believe are not very close to the people. Because of this there are many instances of individuals developing the feeling in their minds that they have been wronged. Perhaps they have; perhaps they have not. But we have recognised over the years that there should be some means by which a person is at least able to have his case heard. The people of the Northern Territory have not been able to have their case heard, no matter what has been done by way of legislation or other means. So I support the Bill. I believe that it is a step forward. I support the remarks of the previous speakers. I look forward to this Bill being proclaimed an Act at an early date and to the Ombudsman and his 2 deputies being appointed at the earliest possible time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
In view of reports that Timorese refugees are being charged high rentals, and that the Rent Controller is investigating the matter, will the Minister obtain a copy of the Controller's report and make it available to the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Was it reported in the  Northern Territory News  of 4 November 1976 under  the  heading 'Massive Lay-offs in Darwin, Alice?' that  Senator J.  B. Keeffe said that the Darwin and Alice Springs Councils would be forced by lack of funds to lay off massive numbers of workers in the near future. If so, will the Minister deny or confirm the statement. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. Darwin is beset by continual power failures which, it is reported, can last for several hours causing loss of air conditioning and normal electricity requirements. In this hot and humid period of the year, the Darwin community is suffering considerable discomfort. Can the Minister have the matter investigated in an effort to bring about a more efficient reticulation of power or, in the event that there is insufficient power generated for the community, take urgent steps to bring back production of electricity to a normal state? 
I think Australians realised at the last election that the need was to get Australia back on its feet. It was clearly indicated by the Liberal and National Country Parties that, at that stage, the country was in a poor state. It was expected that in the following year or two Australia would go through an extremely difficult time. This was obvious when one looked back at what happened over the previous three or four years with spiralling costs and the development of galloping inflation bringing the Australian economy into chaos. The ills of the economy cannot be cured overnight. Any reasonable person would agree with that view. Since being elected, the Government has taken many actions to bring about a decrease in inflation. Once again, I think every reasonable person would have to agree that the measures that have been taken have been successful. 
At the date of the election, December 1975, Australia's inflation rate was over 1 7 per cent. That was the third highest of the developed countries in the world.  Senator Ryan  might say: 'Is he serious?' I think the whole situation was and still is serious. If the Labor Government had been allowed to continue with the trend that it was following 3 years ago, Australia would have now been in economic chaos. One has only to look at some of the policies of Labor to see that this is so. I refer to the books by  Dr Cairns  and others. I am not saying that all members of the Labor Party advocated such policies- far from it. Some people within the Labor Party and within the 
Senate were very interested in seeing that inflation was reduced and the economy controlled. However, a section of the left wing desired to bring economic chaos into the country. This economic chaos would have meant the finish of the private enterprise system and Australia would have developed rapidly into a socialist state from which it would never have escaped. The situation was serious. Since then, despite the problems which now beset us, the inflation rate has been cut back by possibly 7 per cent. It is anticipated and hoped that - 
The honourable senator says: 'What?' The inflation was 17 per cent. Now several percentage points have been cut from it. This has been the result of the restrictions and the policies introduced by this Government. As I said before, at the beginning of this Government's term of office it was anticipated that Australia would be in a difficult position for a long time. A country does not climb out of such a mess overnight. As can be seen from the present position, that will take some considerable time. We must continue to work on the problem. 
This Bill provides an incentive to small business. As one who lives in the Northern Territory, I applaud the Government for introducing this legislation which brings the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory into line with the States. It will provide some incentive to small business in those areas. Small businesses, particularly those in the Northern Territory, are experiencing an extremely difficult time. Before the last election, with the galloping inflation rate, with costs increasing rapidly week by week and with wages increasing, many small businesses went broke. Under this legislation an employer who pays wages of $900 or less a week will not have to pay any payroll tax. At present the limit is $400. This legislation will provide considerable support for small business. This is an election promise of the Liberal and National Country Parties which is now being implemented. This legislation will give some assistance to small businesses in the Northern Territory. 
The people in the Northern Territory are in an extremely difficult situation. As I have said so often in the Senate, I believe that many Australians forget the people of the outback. They forget that people were encouraged to go to the outback in order to assist in the development of Australia. These pioneers had to be given special assistance in some instances, and that occurred under previous Liberal-Country Party governments. I refer to such schemes as fuel prices equalisation and freight rate assistance, which assisted small businesses and individuals in the Northern Territory. The Australian Labor Party Government introduced cost recovery policies, which are being continued because of the monetary difficulties facing this nation at the moment, and user-pays policies. The fuel prices equalisation scheme for the people of the outback was discontinued. Freight rate assistance was taken away and freight rates have increased by 100 per cent or more. This has put the people in the outback in an extremely difficult position. 
Once again I emphasise the fact that many small businesses and big businesses in the Northern Territory are going broke because the costs they have to bear are absolutely beyond them. In many cases people on the land are receiving no income whatsoever. School fees are increasing. This means that some children no longer can go to school, whereas previously they were able to attend schools in the main centres or various colleges in the south. I must emphasise that, whilst legislation such as this is very acceptable to the people of the Northern Territory and will take away some of the pain and tribulation and some of the costs of business, we must not forget the people in the outback. There is much more which should be done to assist them in these very difficult times. The people on the seaboard also have difficulties, but it should be remembered that people on the seaboard are close to the markets and incur lower freight costs. When they move they do not have to travel 500 miles, 1000 miles or 2000 miles, as do the people of the Northern Territory. People are inclined to forget that families in the outback of the Northern Territory, who do not work for the Government or for an employer who pays their fares, are in a most difficult position when leaving the Territory on holidays. Often they do not have the financial ability to do that. I do not wish to go on at length about this problem. The point I make is that the decision regarding payroll tax restrictions is very acceptable in the Northern Territory. I hope that in the future, as the Government gets the country back on its feet, it will recognise more and more the problems of outback businesses and bring back the many facilities which such businesses enjoyed in the past. 
Around this time some defamatory and vilifying statements were made about this person who has spent all his life amongst the Aboriginal people, although he is there merely to serve. Perhaps it was brought about by the intense jealousy of some people. Perhaps there are other reasons. He was attacked by people who were, I would suggest, afraid of the truth that he put forward on behalf of the Aboriginal people. Honourable senators will remember that in October on behalf of this person I circulated to members of both Houses this particular statement which is signed by him and which answers in full the criticisms which have been made. I am also going to seek leave to have this document incorporated. Perhaps I could read the last paragraph in which he says: 
To reiterate, it seems strange to me that all of the criticisms relating to the Aboriginal transcripts have been directed at those involved in facilitating the submissions, and little or no attention has been paid to the content of these submissions and the principles they enunciate. 
I seek leave to incorporate this statement in  Hansard. 
A considerable amount of work has been done in the southern part of the Territory. Many traditional Aboriginal people were interviewed, not in the cold confines of a sophisticated air-conditioned building in a town but in the bush, in their own country, in their homes, on the river bank or in the shade of a tree. Translations were made of what they said. An extremely large number were interviewed. They were given an understanding of what was before them and they gave their comments. I will not seek to include in  Hansard  the document recording their comments, because of its volume; but those who are interested in the thoughts of Aboriginal people may be inclined to read it. 
I will come to that, if  Senator Cavanagh  will have a little patience. I have a telegram that was sent to various members of the Government Parties. It came from a meeting of traditional people only. No white people were there. They were not invited. However, I understand that later  Mr Bob  Huey of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and, I think,  Mr Geoff  Eames attended by invitation. It was a spontaneous meeting of people who were concerned about their future. Part of the telegram reads: 
We want each land owning clan to receive its own land titles from the Government direct. We don't want any land trusts holding more than one piece of traditional land. 
When I speak, as I say I do now, on behalf of these Aboriginal people, I do not decry the principle of a land trust. I think a land trust can be incorporated in this legislation, provided it applies only to a particular land owning clan. I seek leave to incorporate the telegram in  Hansard. 
I believe that viewed at this particular time when the Aboriginal people had taken it in their own hands to have discussions on this land rights legislation this article is a reasonable record of a meeting that these Aborigines had with a reporter. I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard.  It appeared in the  Centralian Advocate  of Thursday, 4 November 1976. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Recognising the advantages of the devaluation of the dollar to many Australian industries, and its assistance to the main industries of the Northern Territorypastoral, mining and tourism- and having in mind the degree of isolation and distance from markets which is felt by the Northern Territory communities, and also the fact that in the interests of the Darwin economy it is essential to import directly from overseas, particularly such items as timber and cement, will the Government take action to ensure that home building and development within the commercial life of Darwin and the Northern Territory will not suffer through higher building costs? 
Some 4 weeks ago when I was travelling through the Northern Territory I was requested to meet a group of traditional owners. The traditional owners asked me to convey a message. They said: 'Tell the Government and tell the Parliament that as from now it is not our intention actively to pursue amendments to the land rights legislation'. They went on to say: 'Tell them that, despite the fact that they will not hear from us again, in times to come we will continue to go to government and ask government to listen to us'. They said this because they were afraid of what was happening amongst the Aboriginal people. I am speaking on behalf of this group of traditional owners. 

 -Senator Cavanagh can have his say later. I remind the honourable senator that I have lived in the Territory for 46 years and I know the Aboriginal people and they know me. The elderly Aboriginal men are wise men. They have a culture of thousands of years behind them. But it is the fear within them of what they see around them through the emotions of so many of people in the Northern Territory being disturbed that makes them believe that they should do no more. They have said this to me. The day before they had attended a land rights meeting south of Alice Springs. There was a large number of people there including many traditional owners there. The people who organised the meeting talked over the traditional owners. This has caused fear in the traditional owners and many people in the Northern Territory. These Aboriginal people said that those who organised the meeting talked over them and they were not able to speak. They went along and had no role to play other than to listen. 
The thing that disturbed the elderly traditional owners while they sat there under the trees and endeavoured to have some say was that the young people, who were continually drinking and who would leave to get something more to drink and then come back, shouted the elderly people down. That is the truth. What does it mean? It means that the elderly Aboriginal people fear for the future of their culture and their Aboriginal lore. One elderly man who was there went round taking the names of the other elderly people who sat passively and listened. Some did not understand what was going on because it was not Aboriginal people who were speaking. It was  Mr Eames,  of whom we have heard before, and a person from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. They spoke, as the Aboriginal people said, with a paper in their hand but did not refer to it. This old man, who is concerned for the future of his people, went around and took the names of the traditional owners who were there. He took 62 names, until somebody told him to stop. I do not ask questions of the Aboriginal people. It is a dangerous practice. If one just asks an abrupt question and expects an answer, one is likely to get anything. I usually sit down and listen. He said: 'I wrote down 62 names. I only had half, but they bushed me.' They bushed him and then said: 'As you leave you can sign the paper at the door'. That is an illustration of the problems that are before the Aboriginal people today. 
This legislation has been hurried to quite an extent. Honourable senators opposite have indicated that the Labor Government introduced its Bill last year. Had it not been for that day when the Australian Labor Party lost power, that Bill would have been through by now. But that Bill was brought into the Parliament and proceeded with without the people in the Territory receiving copies of it, having the matter referred to them or being consulted. Someone may say that that is an untruth. What I am saying is that the cultural Aboriginal, the person who abides by Aboriginal law, did not see the Bill; neither did many other people in the Territory, although it was promised. We saw in the last week or two of the 
Parliament a move to ram it through, despite the Northern Territory and the feelings of its people. 
Let me give an indication of how perturbed some of the old traditional people are. They feel that if they are shouted down and not recognised as traditional owners a group without a knowledge of their culture and of their Aboriginal law can come in and disturb them, push them aside and make them act in a peculiar way because of the effects of liquor. If this happens we will see the end of the Aboriginal traditions and culture as we know them now and which have lasted for thousands of years. The Aboriginal people have been concerned. I have a telegram that was sent to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  It may not be in language that we understand. It is from about 16 old traditional people who live in the southern part of the Territory at places such as Papunya, Mount Ebenezer, Docker River, Hermannsburg, Alcoota, Ti Tree, Napperry, Maryvale and so on. They say: 
This is my thought and the other Aboriginal men. We are not satisfied land trusts go to anyone. I am land trust myself according to my law. Please we want you to come to us on Thursday to talk about this matter. We want to see you come and talk with us.  Mr Eli  Rubuntja and we other men. We are leaders of Aboriginal people. We want to see our land rights in our own land. 
One is filled with sorrow because of what has happened over the last couple of years. While these old people wish to speak to government and people in authority, they have had little chance to do so. It is the others who have come in who have spoken. When I speak of 'others' I do not speak of Aboriginal people. I seek leave to incorporate that telegram in  Hansard. 
I follow that statement with a further letter. As I have not sufficient time to read these statements I wish to incorporate them because I think it is necessary that the air be cleared in relation to this matter. I refer to a letter written on 2 1 November 1 976 by Professor T. G. H. Strehlow. Professor Strehlow is a man who has served for more than 60 years with the Aboriginals in Australia and particularly in the. Northern Territory. I would say that he is ohe of the most experienced men in Aboriginal matters now, in clan ownership, in understanding the traditions of Aborigines and so on. Yet unfortunately these days it is evidently not the thing to do to look at these old men who have spent their lives with the Aboriginal people. It seems to me that the trend these days is to go for what we might call the trendies. The trendies' are the people who have arrived on the scene in the last four or five years. I wonder at times why these trendies have arrived in the last four or five years. 
Perhaps I am a little cynical but in my mind I associate them with the fact that over the last few years some $ 100m a year has been spent on Aboriginal people. I will qualify my remarks to some degree. I do not include everyone in that statement because there are very many genuine people who have in the last four or five years worked and are still working with Aboriginal people. They are dedicated people. But I suggest that there are some people who are on the bandwagon. I seek leave to incorporate this letter in  Hansard? 
I suggest that this letter by such an authority as Professor Strehlow is of value to everyone in the Senate and particularly the committee that we have forecast is to be formed. A few weeks ago I presented a petition in the Senate. The petition is self-explanatory. It is signed by many traditional land owners in the southern part of the Territory. Anyone wanting to quarrel with these particular statements should look at the names of the people who have signed this petition. I think it would be fair to say that I have known most of them all my life. They are fine Aboriginal people.One could go further and say that not only are they fine but also, in the sense of Aboriginal culture, they are refined. 
The situation is that under this Bill the title of the land will be in the hands of the Aborigines. It has been mentioned by Woodward and by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)-  this is what I believe-that land should be vested directly in the traditional owners. As I have said, that was an undertaking of Woodward. Honourable senators will remember that in his second reading speech the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs endorsed that principle but claimed considerable legal and practical difficulties in its application. The major difficulties were seen as devising a mechanism for declaring inalienable Aboriginal land, the nature of the title to be granted, and determination of the traditional owners and the boundaries of their area. 
In an endeavour to overcome those difficulties, white man's institutions and procedures have been suggested in the form of land trusts and land councils. Traditional Aboriginals do not themselves recognise these difficulties. In thensociety the traditional owners and those persons who are part of the local descent group, the land owning group, who can hold the land as trustees and can speak for the group, are strictly determined. For them, institutions such as land trusts and land councils are foreign and irrelevant and,  insofar as they claim to represent and speak for traditional owners, quite repugnant. I use the expression 'quite repugnant' because the concept of land councils is foreign to Aboriginal law. No person can speak for another man's land, and the owner of a particular piece of land cannot speak for any other person's land. There is a clear line of ownership in Aboriginal law which far outlives and outreaches our laws. Their culture has lasted thousands of years. 
The situation is such that if we want the legislation that we pass to work, we must honestly recognise the land-owning Aboriginals, the traditional land owners. That concept has brought about a lot of confusion. I think that a lot of emotion has been generated in the Northern Territory over that matter. I commend the previous Government and the present Government for the action that they have taken, but misunderstandings have arisen. If you go to an Aboriginal person and say 'You are being given back the land that you have always held and which you recognise as your own. You are going to be given land rights', to that Aboriginal person that means that he is being recognised for the future as the owner of the land for which he is the representative in that land-holding clan and which has been handed down from his father, his uncle, or whoever. Of course, that really is not the case, because the proposal under the legislation is to set up land councils and land trusts, and the land will be vested in the land trusts. As I said before, I am not against the principle of land trusts, providing that they recognise the landowning clans and that the land owner is the land trust. 
Time is getting on, and I wanted to say much more on that point. However, I must now refer to some other matters. 
I am supporting the Bill. While I agree with land rights for Aboriginals, what I am doing and what I have to do- I have said before in other places that I was going to do this- is endeavour to clear up the misunderstanding which exists in relation to the traditional land owner and in relation to the way in which we grant Aboriginal people land rights in a paternal way by imposing upon them this foreign concept. It would be wrong if I did not do that. 
There are other parts of the Bill with which I agree. However, as I have said before, I must speak up on the principle of properly recognising the traditional land owner. Whenever I have spoken on this matter I have been insistent that if we are going to establish land trusts and land councils we have to ensure that those bodies are the servants of the traditional land owner. I think that is one of the better points contained in the legislation, namely, that there has been a tightening up as best we can achieve in legislation. We nave to ensure that the land councils cannot act without the authority of the traditional owner. 
I wish to have incorporated in  Hansard  a paper written by Mark de Graaf, who is a senior lecturer in anthropology and is head of the Department of General Studies at the Alice Springs Community College. The document comprises notes on the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976. It is an extremely interesting document. During the last 20 years this person has spent much time living with the Aboriginal people in areas as far west as the Western Australian border. I recommend that honourable senators read what he has written. I seek leave to incorporate that document in  Hansard. 
-I now turn to the much maligned situation in the Northern Territory. I refer to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, of which I was a member for some 16 years. I suppose I have got more qualifications than anyone else in this place to speak of what has happened in the Legislative Council and the Legislative Assembly during the last 16 years. Firstly, I wish to incorporate in  Hansard  a document entitled 'The History of Aboriginal Land (NT) Legislation and Policy and the LiberalCountry Party Government' written by the Northern Territory Majority Leader, G. A. Letts. That document outlines the history of Aboriginal legislation in the Northern Territory, which commenced many years ago. That history commenced in August 1964 when the Northern Territory Legislative Council appointed a sessional committee on Aboriginal integration. In May 1965 the Committee recommended legislation in regard to land tenure on Aboriginal reserves. I suggest that this was the first move in Australia towards the commencement of recognition that Aboriginal people should own land. I seek leave to have that document incorporated in  Hansard. 
I am afraid I do not know how many hectares were involved because, like many others, I am not particularly acquainted with the metric system. I have never really had the time to work out the area of this particular cattle lease which I am going to visit next Friday week and which is called Pepar Manarti 
It comprises about 800 to 1000 square miles. This particular group was granted land under this Northern Territory legislative ordinance. I checked the other day and there are 100 children there so one presumes that the population must be about 200 people. They are living off this cattle lease and are branding cattle. It is a viable concern. I am very proud to be one of those people who played a part in granting those Aborigines this lease of land way back before such a system was considered anywhere else in Australia. But then what happened? We hear tonight how great the Labor Party has been in promoting land rights for the Aboriginal people. What it actually did in the Northern Territory was to freeze land rights for the Aboriginal people. Some 65 leases from household to business leases were granted. At 
Maningrida I think there were two or three leases of different sizes. But the previous Prime Minister came in and froze the whole scheme. He cancelled it by administrative order. There were many more applications in front of the Aboriginal Lands Board. If the system had not been frozen those people would have been given their land. Since then there has been this move to bring Woodward into the matter. I have certainly no complaint about that. I am merely illustrating that those honourable senators on the other side of the chamber should not get this grandiose idea that they are the only people who have initiated Aboriginal land rights in Australia. Far from it. It was the previous Liberal-Country Party Government that initiated such measures. From there the scheme could have been developed as we intended to develop it, but the Labor Party saw fit not to do so. 
What it actually did was to freeze land rights in the Northern Territory. There are some other matters that I wish to speak about in the Committee stage so I shall bring my remarks on the second reading of the Bill to a close. First of all, however, I wish to deal to some degree with the complementary legislation that is to be enacted by the Northern Territory. I should like to refute some of the suggestions that have been made here tonight. There has been whingeing and this knocking of the people on the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. There are people who come from all walks of life in the Northern Territory. 
-Admittedly this is so because there are 19 members of the Legislative Assembly, 17 of whom are from the Country Liberal Party and 2 of whom are independents. There has not been a Labor member for a long time. I suppose this is the reason why honourable senators opposite are knocking the Legislative Assembly. They cannot take it. The fact that there are 1 7 electorates in the Northern Territory and the Labor Party cannot get one of them riles honourable senators opposite; it makes them sore. So what do they do? They knock the Legislative Assembly in a petty way. Let us turn to another matter, this business of sacred sites. I do not wish to speak on it for too long. I outlined the situation completely in speaking on the Heritage Commission legislation when I pointed out that for the first time in Australia legislation was introduced into the Legislative Council to deal with the protection of historic sites, sacred spots and objects. 
The honourable senator does not know what he is talking about. In fact I sometimes wonder whether honourable senators opposite can read. 
I believe that this Aboriginal councils and associations legislation has been brought about by a situation that existed in the Northern Territory some years ago when some Aboriginal co-operatives were having some problem in trading with people other than within the organisations. At that time moves took place to amend the councils and associations legislation in the 
Northern Territory. In January 1972 the McMahon Government policy statement under the heading  of Supplementary Measures  stated: 
In addition to these measures the Government proposes in relation to the Northern Territory to investigate ways of providing a simple, flexible form of incorporation for Aboriginal communities. 
I wish to express here the viewpoint of the Majority Leader of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly who, in part of a message, stated: 
My understanding is that this refers to amendments which were then being considered to the Local Associations Incorporation Ordinance to overcome several difficulties communities were then experiencing regarding trading with persons outside their membership and taxation matters. There was not any suggestion so far as I can recall that this legislation would be introduced by the Commonwealth Government or that it could cover the establishment and operation of local government type activities. You have probably not been advised that work was proceeding throughout 1972 on the preparation of legislation which would have provided effective machinery for the development of local government type activities in isolated including Aboriginal communities. But for the change of Government this legislation would have been introduced in the February 1973 meeting of the Legislative Council. 
That viewpoint asks where such legislation should be introduced. Naturally I support the claim that there has to be legislation to overcome these problems. However legislation such as this could be considered by the Federal Parliament to be a part of a State-like legislation. In fact it is my understanding that there have been suggestions that the passage of the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill (No. 2) could have been delayed a little so that States could have more discussion. I have gained this impression from discussions which have taken place within the precincts of the Parliament within the last 2 days. However, as I said before, I support the principle of this legislation. But I suggest that in the very many areas in which such legislation is required, such as in the local government area, the Federal Government could consider that this type of legislation should be a State-like matter. I wish to refer briefly to clause 30, which relates to bylaws. It provides that Aboriginal councils may make by-laws under certain conditions. It has been pointed out to me by people from Aboriginal settlements in the northern part of the Northern Territory that they are interested in seeing this legislation passed for 2 reasons. One is that it will overcome a problem within the area of their trading as co-operatives. But sub-clause (9) of clause 30 says that a by-law does not apply in relation to a person who is not an Aboriginal. My feeling in this respect is that one could have looked at this matter in such a way as to provide that if there are to be by-laws in a particular area they should apply to all. I repeat that I support the legislation but I query the necessity for such legislation to be introduced in the federal sphere. 
In his introductory remarks prior to moving his amendment  Senator Keeffe  made some rather garbled charges - 
Some garbled statements. I wish to refute them. It is the right of the honourable senator and anyone else to believe that the translations that I have said are readily available are incorrect. But I suggest that he read them. I also suggest that he look at other authorities. I refute completely what  Senator Keeffe  has said. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Keeffe's amendment)  be left out. 
Once again  Senator Keeffe  has made loose charges and carried on with what I would describe as vilification. The Country-Liberal Party is the majority Party in the Northern Territory and is supported by the majority of the people. Regardless of how  Senator Keeffe  feels towards that Party it has been made the majority Party by the people to represent the people in the Northern Territory. It has the support of a large number of Aboriginals. It has that support because of the interest it takes in the Aboriginal people. 

 Senator Keeffe referred to the Albrecht theory. What a ridiculous statement he made. It is ridiculous because obviously he does not understand the situation. I could say also that other people obviously do not understand the situation. There is no Albrecht theory. There is no theory which applies just to central Australia. I refer interested people and all of those people who possibly have been poorly advised and who believe that there is an Albrecht system to the joint parliamentary committee which is proposed to be formed for the purpose of reviewing the provisions of this Bill. I support to the best of my ability the setting up of that committee. In fact, I am one of those who insisted that that committee be formed so that it can oversee the legislation to ensure that it works. Once the legislation is enacted that committee can look at any problems which occur and hopefully make recommendations to the Government which will then act upon those recommendations and seek to cure the ills involved. 
This is the first Federal Bill of its kind in Australia. There will be problems. As I have indicated before, I believe, as a person who lives in the Northern Territory, that there will be problems with the traditional land owners. This legislation is related to the traditional owners of the traditional land. The concept of Aboriginal land owning clans is not properly recognised. But to illustrate that there is no such thing as an Albrecht theory, I suggest that people interested read  Kin and Totem  by Johannes Falkenberg;  Aboriginal Man in Australia,  which was written in honour of Professor Elkin and edited by Professor Berndt and Katherine Berndt;  The World of the First Australians  by Professor Berndt and Katherine Berndt;  Man, Land and Myth in North Australia,  once again by Professor Berndt and Katherine Berndt;  Aranda Traditions  by Professor Strehlow; and  Tribes and Boundaries in Australia,  which is edited by Nicholas Peterson. They indicate that in the Northern Territory, there are land owning clans which, despite their laws, naturally do differ. But what I have been trying to impress upon the Senate is that there are such people as land owning clans throughout the Northern Territory. This is where a lot of the misunderstanding has taken place. 
In answer to some of the criticisms regarding fringe dwellers in Alice Springs, the situation is this: In the first place there are the Arunta people. They own the land. They have lived there from time immemorial. No other tribe or clan come into that area unless they were given permission. Those people lived in the river beds. They have not lived in those river beds for 20 or 30 years. That is their land and they have lived there for a long time. Over the last few years there have been intrusions through various assimilation policies of other tribes and clans coming into the area. The result was that there was quite a mixture of people. There was trouble within those people. The Aboriginal people themselves got together and agreed that they would require certain pieces of land on which they could separate into their own clans, families and so on and live in peace in the Alice Springs area. They had consultations with local government and with government with the result that certain leases have been granted, applications for leases are practically completed and one or two leases have yet to be processed. 
So the situation is this: There are leases that have been granted, there are leases that have been almost completed and there are others that are yet to be processed. Honourable senators should take note that these leases are not on the fringe of the town. They are ordinary leases under the Northern Territory land laws. They are in the town and they will be there for a long time. In fact the Aboriginal people will always own them. It will not be a case of Aboriginal people being pushed out and always being on the fringe. It is realised that if these people are to live in the community- and this is being encouraged- they should have the land or buildings or whatever facilities they require. Once again there has been misunderstanding here and not only misunderstanding but misrepresentation. I suggest to honourable senators on the other side of the chamber that if they want to make the noises they have made, they should be a little bit more accurate in future and at least give some recognition to the good that is being done by government for the Aboriginal people. They should not, as  Senator Keeffe  is always doing, tear apart government policy and make false assertions and so on. He is the shadow Minister for the Northern Territory. In view of the way in which he is carrying on and always attacking the Northern Territory I have no doubt that he will remain, and be nothing more than, the shadow Minister. 
There have been many comments that I have had to answer, but I wish to refer briefly to another one. I wish to put this matter before the Government as I believe that in the future it will have to have a review of the interpretation of the definition of 'Aboriginal'. I recommend to the Government that it take seriously the thoughts that have been expressed by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in the other place a few days ago. He suggested that the definition of 'Aboriginal should read: 
Aboriginal' means a person who is a member of the Aboriginal race of Australia and is registered or entitled to be registered under the provisions of paragraph 24 (a) or who has been nominated by a person so registered as a member of his land-owning clan or group. 
He continued: 
If honourable members look at sub-clause 24 (a) of the Bill they will see that it enables Aborigines to make a register of people whom they consider to be Aborigines. 
This Bill allocates traditional land. Its title speaks of traditional Aboriginal land . . . 
Another view of the matter is contained in the  Hansard  of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly of 1 April 1976. The Majority Leader,  Dr Letts,  said:   . . in the present bill is the definition of 'Aboriginals' which is not consistent with Northern Territory reality. It is necessary to distinguish between the more traditional Aboriginals whose self identity has been culturally shaped and formed and those Aboriginals whose self identity has been largely formed on the basis of colour. Aboriginals as recognised in the Northern Territory have no difficulty in making this distinction. For them an Aboriginal is one who knows and has been put through the law. Under this definition, there would not be difficulties in determining Aboriginal ownership of traditional land in the Northern Territory. 
As I have said, I believe that the Government should review its definition of 'Aboriginal' in relation to the law that are being passed now. 

 - Senator Keeffe said: 'Let us be done with it', but in saying that what does he do? He keeps on shovelling more dirt into the debate every time he stands. I do not know what the honourable senator was referring to when he mentioned the majority leader spending $10,000 and me spending $5,000 in travelling expenses. If he was referring to the Legislative Assembly, and presumably that is what he was referring to, I remind the honourable senator that the majority leader has responsibility for over half a million square miles and has to do a tremendous amount of travel- almost as much as  Senator Keeffe. Senator Keeffe  spoke of people having pulled the wool over the eyes of Pastor Albrecht. If anybody has pulled the wool over Pastor Albrecht 's eyes it is the Aboriginal people because he speaks on behalf of the Aboriginal people. It is not the Albrecht theory, and because they have no one else to represent their viewpoint they use Pastor Albrecht, who is a conscientious and honest man. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Keeffe's amendment)  be len out. 
I note the remarks of  Senator Keeffe.  I read to the Committee a message that I have received. It states: 
The Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory today- 
This is 1 8 November - on the motion of the Majority Leader, deleted from the Territory parks and wildlife legislation sub-clause 3 of clause 122 referring to the prohibition on Aboriginals using vehicles and fire-arms for hunting. 
The principles which we seek to preserve are that Aboriginal people should be entitled to hunt on their land for traditional purposes such as food and ceremonial reasons, even where protected animals are involved, and, on the other hand, we seek to ensure that wildlife is not exploited commercially by any ethnic group. 
The removal of this provision is an indication of the good faith of the Legislative Assembly in its efforts to secure the best possible legislation for the Aboriginal people and the whole community. It is further evidence of our desire to approach all questions of Aboriginal advancement and welfare m the spirit of consultation and co-operation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Are allegations that there is overfishing and netting of barramundi in the north of the Northern Territory, as reported in the  Northern Territory News  of29 September 1976, correct. 
Does overfishing and netting of barramundi in gill nets in estuaries and coastal mud flats mean that barramundi are threatened with destruction, as alleged in the same article. 
If the allegations in (1) and (2) are correct, what action is being taken to protect the barramundi from destruction. 
-Briefly, I should like to commend  Senator Baume  for his speech regarding this clause. It is refreshing in this place to find that somebody other than the 2 Northern Territory senators understands the situation and is prepared to stand up for the Northern Territory. Northern Territory people and their representatives in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly have a high track record so far as Northern Territory Aboriginal matters are concerned. Over the years, as I have pointed out in this debate, on many occasions they have been the first to introduce legislation relating to Aborigines. They have led the way. But despite this, despite the efforts of the people in the Northern Territory, people in both Houses of Parliament and people generally in Australia have used the people of the Northern Territory as a kicking horse. The people in the Territory have had no means whatsoever of defending themselves. As I have said before, the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has been purely a legislative figure without any executive functions whatsoever. Throughout the years the Commonwealth has been responsible for the administration of the Northern Territory. If anyone has complaints about what has happened in the administration of the Northern Territory I suggest that he should look not in the Northern Territory but in Canberra.  Senator Keeffe  referred to the proposed committee and said that he looked upon it as a funk hole. 
I am only using the term. I understand  Senator Keeffe  said 'funk hole'. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order!  Senator Keeffe,  I think the best thing for you to do is to get up after  Senator Kilgariff  has sat down and explain your position. 
I am doing no more than saying that  Senator Keeffe  used the term funk hole'. I do not know in what sense he used it. It does not interest me at all, nor does it interest the people of the Northern Territory. Regardless of this, the proposed committee will be of the utmost importance to the people of the Northern Territory. Why is this? It is because it will give them an opportunity to discuss the matters. I shall not continue on this matter because I made my points earlier in the debate and I shall leave it at that. However, before I sit down I once again put the point that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has overseered to the best of its ability the laws that it has passed. But the Assembly has had little effect because the people of Australia have not allowed it to develop politically. Our present Liberal-National Country Party Government is now allowing the Assembly to develop politically and on 1 January next year the transfer of powers will be made to the Northern Territory. Give the Legislative Assembly and the Northern Territory people the responsibility and I can assure honourable senators that the Territory will go from strength to strength and all the various matters that concern honourable senators, I suggest, will be of no concern when they see the Legislative Assembly pick up the ropes of responsibility. I mentioned yesterday as an indication of the good faith of the Assemblyperhaps I read it too early in relation to another clause- a message which refers to reciprocal legislation. The message refers to a motion moved in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly on 18 November 1976. It states: 
The Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory today, on the motion of the Majority Leader, deleted from the Territory Parks and Wildlife legislation sub-clause 3 of clause 122 referring to the prohibition on Aboriginals using vehicles and firearms for hunting. 
The principles which we seek to preserve - 
This is the Legislative Assembly executiveare that Aboriginal people should be entitled to hunt on thenland for traditional purposes such as food and ceremonial reasons, even where protected animals are involved, and, on the other hand, we seek to ensure that wildlife is not exploited commercially by any ethnic group. 
Surely there can be no kick about that. The message continues: 
The removal of this provision is an indication of the good faith of the Legislative Assembly in its efforts to secure the best possible legislation for the Aboriginal people and the whole community. It is further evidence of our desire to approach all questions of Aboriginal advancement and welfare in the spirit of consultation and co-operation. 
If honourable senators want the Northern Territory to develop and the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory to be well looked after I suggest they accept this invitation to consult with the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, the people of the Northern Territory. Perhaps then we will be able to continue to look after these people. There is much to be done. But that is not the fault of the Territory; it is the fault of those people who have refused to give executive government to the Territory. 
I welcome this motion agreeing to the establishment of the Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights. The Aboriginal Lands Rights (Northern Territory) Bill is a major piece of legislation. It is probably the most important piece of legislation that has been passed in the Senate for quite a long time. As it has a very strong Federal flavour, it will have a tremendous impact on the Northern Territory. However, I do not wish to pursue that line. As one who will be a member of the Committee- I appreciate the opportunity of being on the Committee- I believe that it can do much as it is a committee of review. I believe that many people in the Territory will wish to give their point of view. I am particularly interested to see within the terms of reference mention of traditional owners and traditional land. I believe very strongly that there is insufficient knowledge of the land owning clans and Aboriginal law in the Territory. As I have said before, if any legislation before the Federal Parliament or the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly affects Aboriginal people, traditional lands and land ownership, we must look closely at the Aboriginal laws. I can assure the Senate that if we pass a law that conflicts with their law it will not work. 
This Committee will go into the Territory and it will see many people, particularly Aboriginal people. Over the last few years many government or parliamentary committees, experts in this field and experts in that field have bombarded the Aboriginal people. They have become extremely bewildered by the increasing number of people who come to see them. They have described these people as whirlwinds, because they move in with much noise and dust, they disturb the community and they leave. As this Committee will see much of the Aboriginal people, I ask that it go into the Territory quietly, take its time and not hear these people in sophisticated surroundings. I support the motion. I suggest to  Senator Keeffe,  who has moved an amendment, that the term of reference allows other matters to be referred by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, to the Committee will enable other matters to be put before the Committee if there are sufficient people of the opinion that this should come about and right is on their side. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
I commend the Government for introducing the Public Service Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976, which relates to the setting up of the Northern Territory Public Service. As honourable senators know, there is to be a transfer of powers from the Commonwealth Government to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly on 1 January. Several statutory bodies, the police and various other departments, will be transferred as part of the initial transfer of powers. Several hundred Commonwealth public servants will be seconded to the Northern Territory Public Service. 
This matter goes back to 1974 when the Commonwealth Parliament set up a Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. That Committee is to be commended for the work it did in producing its report on constitutional development in the Northern Territory. Since that date that report more or less has been the bible for developing the transfer of powers. In the first year after that the transfer was in the doldrums; very little was done in regard to the report. But in the last year in particular a considerable number of moves have been made. I commend the Minister for the Northern Territory,  Mr Evan  Adermann, for his work in this field. Despite his responsibilities in this very busy year in the Federal Parliament, he has been to the Northern Territory no fewer than 20 times and has spent many weeks there. I think that would be a record for any Minister holding responsibility for the Northern Territory. 
That matter is to be worked out during the transfer of powers. The area of finance is being looked into. We saw the amendment to the Northern Territory Administration Act which set up the Executive and now we are seeing this legislation being passed in order to set up the Northern Territory Public Service. It seconds Commonwealth public servants to the Northern Territory Public Service. But in seconding the public servants to the Northern Territory Public Service there will be no loss of privileges and if they wish they will be able to go back into the Commonwealth Public Service. So they will not be left in the Northern Territory Public Service if they do not wish to stay there. 
In the last few months continuous talks have been going on between the Majority Leader and the Executive of the Northern Territory Public Service, the Minister for the Northern Territory and the Department of the Northern Territory and the various public service unions involved. One report from  Mr Norman  Campbell of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, indicated that the discussions went very well and the Assembly wants to do the right thing. There has been very good consultation by all. The public service unions are in agreement. Three to four weeks ago I had discussions with the Federal Executive of the ACOA in Darwin. All these members of the Federal Executive from the various States of Australia were there and indicated that as far as they could see the problems that had appeared had been ironed out and apparently the move will be quite successful. I commend the Government for this initiative that it has taken- a very firm initiative- to ensure in this coming year that after the transfer of powers we will have a strong Northern Territory Public Service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
What action is being taken to implement the Bureau of Transport Economics Paper on the development of facilities at the Port of Darwin. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Government ensure that in all future subdivisions in the Northern Territory power lines be placed underground. 
Has the Government explored the possibility of obtaining up-to-date earth digging equipment from overseas, particularly designed for placing power lines underground. 
Has Government encouraged private enterprise to obtain this equipment with the possibility of economically doing away with overhead power lines for all future subdivisions in the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the hire industry which provides short term use of equipment to construction, manufacturing, and other service industries been excluded from the investment allowance scheme. If so, why. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. The media release of the Australian Teachers' Federation of 9 February 1977 titled 'Crisis in Aboriginal Education' charges the Government with broken promises in regard to the withdrawal of moneys and the upgrading of schools in Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory. Concern is also expressed with regard to the Elcho Island school that through years of neglect toilet facilities have been reduced to an unacceptable standard. There are also complaints regarding the drainage system and staff toilets and suggestions that plans for the improvement and upgrading of these standards have been set aside. Will the Minister indicate the present situation with regard to the upgrading of schools in Aboriginal communities? What are the facts and plans with regard to the Elcho Island Aboriginal school? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Because of a dispute over tropical or isolated area leave and travelling allowances between the Public Service Board and members of the Public Service unions in the Darwin area, members of the Public Service unions once again went on strike in Darwin yesterday which resulted in the closing down of the power house for 13 hours. Similar action some weeks ago over the same dispute brought the city literally to a standstill and, as before, there was no air-conditioning or fans in the present monsoonal weather, particularly affecting the aged, the sick and young babies. There was spoiling of the food of families, losses for food distributors and retailers and a breakdown in communication and industry, and 2 schools were forced to close for health reasons. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Education. I refer to questions asked this week by  Senator Keeffe  and myself directed to the Minister in regard to Aboriginal educational facilities at Elcho Island. There appear to have been considerable confusion and lack of action over the matter and reference has been made to a 1 973 report and to other matters. Will the Minister clear up once and for all why this somewhat chaotic situation has arisen? What action to bring about a satisfactory conclusion can be expected? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. As South Australia and the Northern Territory, and the Northern Territory and Western Australia are the only regions which are not connected with sealed roads on the national highway system, what is the present situation in regard to the programming of the national highways for the completion of sealed roads in these 2 areas? In regard to South Australia, has the route for a sealed highway been determined? If so, what is the proposal or proposals? What responsibilities has the South Australian Government for the sealing of the highway and what responsibilities has the Federal Government in this sphere? In view of the South Australia-Northern Territory route being now one of the last to be upgraded, is it the intention of the Government to give it any priority? In regard to the sealing of national highways recently completed in South Australia and in Queensland, what funding if any was made by the Federal Government? 
In my brief period in the Senate I have never doubted the sincerity of  Senator Douglas  McClelland. However, I must say that in the speech that he has just delivered in regard to the Bill dealing with the appointment of First Division officers of the Australian Public Service, he has expressed many fears which I doubt are well founded.  His  first charge was that this legislation was hastily conceived. I think that that charge can be easily refuted. One goes back in time to the statement made by the Prime Minister,  Mr 
Malcolm Fraser, when he indicated that he was concerned, as was the Austraiian community, with the fact that there were many movements of senior heads of the Commonwealth Public Service which appeared to be political. At that time the Australian Public Service was growing at a tremendous rate. As I have indicated, the Australian community did suffer some disquiet at the fact that such appointments were taking place. As other honourable senators have indicated, this is no reflection on the people involved, but it did bring about this sense of uneasiness, this disquiet, in regard to the method by which these appointments were being made. 
So the Prime Minister indicated that he felt that there ought to be some set system regulating the means and the methods of bringing about appointments of First Division officers to the position of head of a department. I think this system commenced in November 1975. Obviously, since then a lot of consideration has been given to the Coombs report and the method of establishing these regulatory controls to bring about what is described as a competitive nomination process within the First Division of the Public Service; that is, heads of departments. It has another important effect too, which has been described by other speakers, inasmuch as it can bring in a person from outside the Australian Public Service, who is not a part of that service, to be a permanent head. It can also involve a situation where that person is not on the list of the  Chairman  of the Committee who reviews and prepares lists of possible candidates for these positions. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland said that the legislation is unnecessary. I contend that it is most necessary, when one considers the growth of the Australian Public Service since Federation. Since Federation the Commonwealth Public Service has grown from small beginnings to what it is today- a vast executive administration. We feel it throughout Australia. At the same time, of course, we have reached the situation where Australia is now a modern developing nation. I could well imagine that within the confines of the Australian Public Service there is not the person most suited to a position to contend with the modern trends and tensions that are developing in the world today. So I think it is most realistic that a person can be brought into the Service from outside it- a person who can stand up to the competition within the Australian Public Service and offer his services to the Australian nation for a brief period. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland looks upon this aspect; and as I said before, he spoke as I think he always speaks, with utmost sincerity- as a possible restriction on a Labor government, if it came to power. Nowhere in this legislation can I see such a situation arising. Such a situation could arise if a person were appointed for a time without there being any possibility of his being removed. But this person from outside the Service, this permanent head of a department, is there only for the period of the life of the government. The following Prime Minister can recommend to the Governor-General that this person no longer be required and so he is relieved of his responsibilities. He accepts that because he knows that when he first offered himself for appointment to the Public Service as a head of a department, it was for only a brief period. Perhaps that brief period could be extended according to the life of the government, but he knows that the position that he has accepted is restricted. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland asks where in the Australian nation would one find a person who would possibly accept a position as permanent head of a department for only one or two years. I suggest that if people in the Australian community who have special expertise that would interest a government were asked to come forward and serve the government and the community for a brief period, there are men and women who would accept that challenge, knowing that the position they would hold would be for a limited period. 
I think the proposed method of appointing First Division officers to positions as heads of departments is an advancement on the system that exists today. The suggestion that the  chairman  of this committee, that is the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board, will have too much power and the other criticisms that have been levelled against the proposal are, to a degree, a reflection on the person holding the position. I believe that a person who achieves the position of  Chairman  of the Public Service Board has done so through merit. He must have integrity. Even if one wished to question the proposal many clauses within the Bill contain safeguards which will ensure that the  chairman  and his committee do not provide what have been described as 'jobs for the boys' within the Australian Public Service. The safeguard is there inasmuch as the  chairman  of the committee has to refer the short list of candidates to the Prime Minister and the Minister in the department concerned. If the Prime Minister is not satisfied with the short list which the  chairman  and his committee of two or more persons have produced he can say so and request the committee to review the short list and take suitable action to ensure that other names come forward. At this juncture perhaps the Prime Minister and the Minister concerned may consider that there are still insufficient names of people with the required expertise. Then, of course, there is the opportunity for advertising the position throughout Australia. At the same time, the Government has the ability to search outside the Public Service for a person with the required expertise. 
Let us have no more criticisms that the members of the committee and the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board can abuse their positionsthat is, if one wanted to question their integrity, which I certainly would not do- because there are within this legislation safeguards which to my mind will certainly ensure that a person who has the expertise to take over and run the department concerned will be appointed. It has been said that there will be fears within the Australian community that this system will not work. I question that statement. Over the years I have been a mere citizen of Australia who has travelled around to a considerable extent. In those years I never thought that I would be a member of the Senate as I am today. In those days I was like many ordinary citizens- I still am an ordinary citizen- who were interested in what took place in the Federal Parliament. Then the question was always asked: 'How can we improve the Australian Public Service? Is it capable of being the executive government, as it is today, of a rapidly developing country that requires many skills to ensure that we remain on top of our development and guide the nation in its future?' While it is no reflection on the Australian Public Service today, people around Australia have often wondered why a person should not be able to come from the community outside the Australian Public Service to offer his expertise in the field in which it is required. As I have said, the position of a person coming from outside into the Australian Public Service for a brief period is well safeguarded. 
There is another interesting aspect when one considers the role of this committee. The committee will prepare a short list, discuss the short list with the Government, and so on. The idea of what has been described as a competitive nomination process is not lost. The fact that a person within the Commonwealth Public Service who considers that he has the ability to be a First Division officer in charge of a department has not been nominated by the committee does not mean that his chances have been completely overlooked and that his application, if he has made one, has been ignored. When introducing this Bill the Prime Minister said: 
I must stress at this point that nothing in the Bill will prevent the appointment, as permanent heads, of persons not nominated as suitable candidates by either the  Chairman  of the Board or the committee. 
It is my understanding that a person from within the Service who offers his services can be appointed and that if this occurs- I can be corrected if I am wrong- his appointment would be a short term one like the appointment of a person from outside the Public Service. All in all, this is progressive legislation. It will encourage and give confidence to the Australian Public Service. It will enable the efficiency of the Service to continue and make it a service of impartiality and integrity. 
Many criticisms have been made by Opposition senators. Some honourable senators have been flying kites to a degree. Others have a sense of frustration or perhaps uneasiness. I believe that this new method of regulating the means of appointing First Division officers to departments of the Australian Public Service is a step forward. It is certainly a step forward from the situation that existed a little while ago. I and many others believe that at that point in time the Public Service was beginning to wander aimlessly. One could sense then frustration within the Australian Public Service because those in control in the Australian Public Service seemed to be wandering along without guidance. I believe that this legislation will do all that is necessary to bring about a continued healthy Australian Public Service. 
I have always been interested in encouragement being given to Australian women to participate in industry, politics, the Public Service and so on. For so long it has been said- perhaps it still applies in some of the lower echelons of the Australian Public Service- that the Australian woman cannot make progress when she is in competition with the Australian male. It is certainly surprising that there are only a few women in senior positions in the Australian Public Service. The fact that the senior positions have been described in this legislation as being for men and women must surely give some encouragement to those women who wish to become involved in or who are involved in public life. As I have said before, it is my wish to see the Australian woman participate more in public life. I do not think Australian women are not in senior positions in the Public Service because of a lack of efficiency, competence or whatever. I believe that it is because Australian women have become frustrated by the restrictions that have been imposed upon them over the years. I commend the Government for its endeavours to overcome the situation in that respect. I am sure there are many women who are capable of participating in public life. I believe that eventually we will see such women come forward. I look forward to seeing more women occupying senior positions in the Australian Public Service. 
I commend the Bill. I believe it is a good Bill. I believe it is a Bill which has been well considered. I believe it is a Bill which compares favourably with the Coombs report. There are some variations between this legislation and the recommendations in the Coombs report. If I remember rightly, one of the recommendations of the Coombs report was that it should not be necessary for short term appointments to retire when a change of government occurred. To my mind that is unacceptable because of the nature of the appointment. I believe that a person who is appointed the head of a department under these circumstances should go. After all he would realise at the time he offered himself for appointment that this could well be so. 
There also has been criticism of the fact that there are various aspects of the Coombs report that are not covered in this legislation. It has been said that certain recommendations of the Coombs report have been ignored and that, as happens to many reports, they will be lost forever. It has been clearly indicated by the Government that there are some aspects of the Coombs report relating to the Australian Public Service that are not covered in this legislation but that they are not to be accepted as having been lost forever. I understand that more work is being done in this regard. A continuing review is being conducted of the Coombs report. I suggest that we will see more action being taken by the Government in the future with regard to various aspects that are not dealt with in this legislation. 

 Senator GEORGES (Queensland) (5. 3 SiHaving listened to  Senator Kilgariff  it is obvious that the Government is on a delaying course, for reasons not clear to me. My sympathies are with  Senator Kilgariff  because I recall having been on my feet many times with sufficient material to enable me to put a very constructive and pithy argument in 10 to 15 minutes only to find myself being required to speak for 45 minutes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will free dental treatment be provided for primary school children by 1982. If so, what program has been initiated to bring this about. 
The Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs would no doubt be aware that at least 2 Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory are experiencing considerable problems within their communities with young people stealing petrol for petrol sniffing. Many lads under 14 years of age have acquired extensive criminal records for their crimes connected with petrol sniffing. These lads are also deliberately confronting authority. Monthly court sittings cannot cope with the backlog of charges. Unfortunately the court is beaming a costly farce as there are no corrective institutions, except gaol, to take over responsibility for these lads. In view of this alarming situation that continues to develop and is somewhat out of control, will the Government take action to bring about special training of these boys in their own communities? Will the Minister take urgent action requesting funds to provide a facility, particularly in the southern part of the Territory, to which these lads can be committed rather than their being committed to gaol where they will mix with hardened criminals and so become heroes to other lads in these areas? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Construction. Is the Minister aware of the hardship and suffering of the elderly and the sick, the inconvenience to housewives and workers, the losses to the business community and the disruption to schools caused by the continual power shedding, breakdowns and stoppages in Darwin over the last 6 months? Can the Minister state what action will be taken to ensure that the people of Darwin receive the same service as residents of other cities rightfully can take for granted? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Will the housing allowance voucher experiment apply to the Northern Territory. 
I direct a queston to the Minister for Education. On 1 January 1977 the Federal Government commenced the transfer of powers of State-like nature to the Northern Territory. Many responsibilities have been transferred. In view of the recommendatons of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory relating to the transfer of powers, what are the present situation and future plans for the transfer of repsonsibilities in regard to education? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the personal compensation payments to those people who suffered injury during cyclone Tracy and ask: What is the present attitude of the Government to the personal compensation payments to those people? I understand that every widow received a grant of $15,000 and that $1,000 was given for each dependent child from the Cyclone Tracy Trust Fund. What further amount was received in compensation payments from the Department of Social Security over the last 2 years and 3 months? How many people were crippled? What payments were made to these people? 
-I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. A circular has been received today by many members of the Senate from an organisation named the Association of Romanians in Australia, calling for funds for the Romanian earthquake appeal. While I am certainly not questioning the  bona fides  of this organisation, I ask whether the Minister is aware of it. Does the Government recognise the organisation as a suitable vehicle to handle funds for this very distressed country? Is it the intention of the Government to sponsor an appeal to enable Australians to give much needed help to the thousands of Romanians affected by the earthquake? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. In the  Bulletin  of 12 March 1977  Mr Peter  Samuel attacks the university system in his article: 
The Scandal of our Universities. 
He is quoted as stating: 
The tertiary education system has grown so fat, so fast, that academia has become an enormous island of privilege, populated in considerable measure by drones and parasites. 
Are these charges accurate? If so, what is the attitude of the Government to this situation in which it is suggested that waste is most prevalent? Having in mind the concern of the Government and of the Australian community at the abuses presently indicated in the unemployment benefit scheme, does the Government intend to bring about reforms in this area of tertiary education? 
I direct a question to the Acting Minister for the Northern Territory. Some weeks ago when referring to the activities of juvenile so-called petrol sniffers at Papunya I indicated my concern at the lack of detention facilities in the Alice Springs area and for those juveniles who, because of the lack of facilities, are at present committed to the Alice Springs gaol. The fact that it is their desire to go to the big house'- the Alice Springs Gaol- is considered an achievement and indicates the gaol 's worth in rehabilitating these lads. What action has the Government taken to provide adequate detention and rehabilitation facilities for juveniles in Alice Springs and elsewhere in the Northern Territory in order to prevent more of these teenagers becoming confirmed criminals? What number of juveniles are at present being held in Northern Territory gaols, either on remand or serving sentences? 
These last 2 weeks in the Senate have been weeks of a very challenging nature. I say challenging nature' because Queen Elizabeth, the Queen of Australia, in her twenty-fifth year, her jubilee year, saw fit to come here last Tuesday week and open Parliament. I say challenging because she is an example of a very courageous woman who is conscientious and dedicated. She is dedicated as a Monarch and as a family person. I congratulate  Senator Austin  Lewis on his maiden speech in the Senate. I believe it was a very fine address. I support it completely inasmuch as he, like many of us, sees the plight and problems of people who live in the country and in the outback. 
I am happy to see that  Senator Austin  Lewis has joined us in the Senate because the indication is that in future he will, as I have said before, join us in taking up the part of the people in the outback. For too long the people in the outback have been ignored, as I have indicated on many other occasions.  Senator Tehan  gave us a very sensible approach to the problems of the family today. I think both sides of the Senate have acclaimed him for the address which he gave indicating the problems which exist as a result of the breakdown of marriage. He indicated that the number of divorces is increasing at an alarming rate. He indicated that this is eroding our future youth. Like him I believe that Australia is coming to a crisis. It is coming to a crisis for many reasons. We are at a period of practically zero growth. We are a big country with a limited population. We are a virile nation with many things to do which can make for progress in the future. Yet we are coming to a period of zero growth. For the benefit, defence and future of Australia we should be increasing quite rapidly as Australia can support a much larger population. Hand in hand with this problem, this crisis which is coming forward, this breakdown in the family which  Senator Tehan  has outlined, is a new cult which is developing in Australia. This new cult is attacking Australia from within. The attack is not from enemies which are fighting on our northern shores at the moment; the enemy to which I refer is what I call the soft Australian. The soft Australian is that person who is eroding our future youth. This erosion is taking place in many ways. It has been outlined in the media particularly in the last few weeks, but really over some years, and has come to a head because of the lectures on drugs and pornography given in the last 2 weeks by an American doctor. She has clearly indicated that the attack is now on future Australian youth. However, not only do we have the soft Australian attacking our youth through alcohol but also the rate of abortions in Australia today- it is a very hard rate to measure; I have not been able to measure it in the last 2 weeks and figures are very difficult to get- as it appears from Press reports is costing Australia hundreds of thousands of its future youth. It has got out of hand and this is clear when we consider that at a time when we require population, when we require youth, we are heading for zero growth. 
Through this attack by the soft Australian the character of our country is in danger. No longer do we hear the catch cry 'Fair go' which we have known over the years. The catch cry we hear too often now is 'Damn you, Jack, I'm all right'. We see this attitude developing to quite a degree throughout the community. There are strikes by small groups of people- strikes which put our way of life in jeopardy and bring hardship to families and hardship to urban and rural people alike. However, these small groups do not care because they believe that they are all right. They have no thought for their fellow men. 
It is quite fair and the honourable senator knows full well that I am referring to a sector of the community and am not speaking of the community as a whole. I am talking about the soft Australian who is endeavouring to erode our future. 
The honourable senator says 'Speak for yourself. I am speaking for very many people. Australia is a fine country, a rich country, but a country is always in trouble when the rich think that they are poor. That is not a saying of mine but a very wise saying of a person in the Australian community and I suggest that we dwell on it. I was particularly taken by the speech of  Senator Lajovic.  He has come from what I would call the despair of Europe. He has come as a migrant to Australia and now he is one of the leaders of the migrant communityour friends who have come to Australia. I believe that his presence in the Senate will enrich the Senate and Australia. 
Tonight I want to speak once again on matters relating to the Northern Territory. I do so not in a parochial way but because senators representing the Territories, as I do, are under challenge and perhaps it will not be too long before the High Court upholds the challenge and there will no longer be, for a while anyway, representation of the Territories in the Senate. The people in the Territories warrant and deserve representation and I call upon the Government, not simply because I am a senator representing the Northern Territory, to once and for all put an end to this challenge and take proper action to ensure that the future of Senate representation for the Territories is beyond challenge. 

 Senator Georges- Why don't you speak to Bjelke-Petersen, one of your own Party? It is within his power to withdraw the challenge. 
I am looking to the Federal Government to take proper action. In speeches made in the last week or two since  Her  Majesty the Queen was here in the Parliament, honourable senators have outlined things that have happened in various countries over the years and the advances that have been made, but there has been no mention of the advances, which have been somewhat slow, that have been made in the Northern Territory. Some 2 weeks ago a delegation from this Federal Parliament led by  Mr Speaker  Snedden, the  President  of the Senate,  Senator Laucke,  the Minister for the Northern Territory,  Mr Evan  Adermann, and many other people attended the opening of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to mark an important milestone for the Northern Territory on 1 January this year when there was the initial transfer of powers from the Federal Government to the Northern Territory. It was the beginning of the transfer of federal powers of a State-like nature to the people of the Northern Territory. 
The Northern Territory is a developing Territory and ultimately will become a State. There will be a gradual transfer of powers and as the Territory accepts new challenges and responsibilities it will go up the ladder to its ultimate goal of statehood. At this time some 30-odd responsibilities have been transferred but there is something like a further 100 responsibilities which have to be transferred from the Federal Government to the Northern Territory before the Territory achieves statehood. During this time we will see the development of the Northern Territory Public Service and the cutting down of the Australian Public Service component dealing with the Territory. There will be the secondment and transfer of people from the Australian Public Service to the Northern Territory. Already there is a Cabinet of 5 members in the Northern Territory responsible for these state-like responsibilities. As time goes by we will see more powers transferred until the ultimate of statehood is achieved. 
While I applaud what has happened in the last year and this important milestone, the progress of the Northern Territory has been extremely slow. I refer briefly to the constitutional development of the Northern Territory as it is set out in a report of this Parliament's former Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. The history of the Territory is that in 1 863 the Colonial Office of Great Britain gave control of the Northern Territory to the Government of the colony of South Australia. Prior to that in 1824, it may surprise some people to know, the Territory was taken possession of for Great Britain as part of New South Wales. In 1888 the South Australian Northern Territory Representation Act was passed allowing 2 members from the Northern 
Territory to go into the South Australian Legislative Council; that is, its Upper House. In 1890 the South Australian Government extended to the white residents of the Territory full adult suffrage. In 1901 Federation gave Northern Territory citizens representation in both Houses of the Federal Parliament. In 1907 South Australia passed the Northern Territory Surrender Act. In 1910 the Australian Parliament passed the Northern Territory Acceptance Act. It is of interest to note that at this particular period, in 1 90 1 , when the Northern Territory as a Territory was annexed to South Australia it was represented in the Senate. It was also represented in the House of Representatives by the honourable member for Grey, the Northern Territory being divided into 3 subdivisions of Palmerston, Pine Creek and Alice Springs. It is also interesting to note that in this time the people of the Northern Territory had the right to vote in referendums but this was taken away in 1910 by the Northern Territory Acceptance Act. Then came the Northern Territory Administration Act which took away from the Territory completely all parliamentary franchise. Without representation, the Northern Territory went through an extremely dull period and was ruled by an administrator and bureaucrats under the Federal Administration. 
Recently, when the 4 referendum Bills were being debated, as honourable senators will remember, some of us did not have the opportunity of speaking on some of those Bills. One in which I was naturally very interested was that which related to the referendum to allow the people of the Territories to vote in a referendum. I refer to the Constitution Alteration (Referendums) Bill 1977. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a statement relating to this matter. The statement is one of my own. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  I take it that the statement is capable of being reproduced in  Hansard? 
Yes. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted for the incorporation of this material in  Hansard? 
Yes. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTThere being no objection, leave is granted. 
If the rest of Australia gives the people of the Northern Territory the right to vote in referendums, 66 years of discrimination will come to an end. 
The people of the top end will, at last, have the same basic democratic rights restored to them that they lost in 1 9 1 1 . 
It is, perhaps, not often known that the people of the Northern Territory once upon a time did have the right to vote in referendums. Between 1901 and 191 1 the Northern Territory residents voted as part of the South Australian division of Grey. It was not until 1911 -when the Northern Territory was formally transferred from South Australia to the Commonwealth- that the Territorians ' franchise was revoked. 
It took 12 years for the first steps to overcome this removal of normal democratic rights to be made. In 1923 the Territory was given limited representation in the House of Representatives. It took until 1968 for that member to be given full voting rights. It took until 1975 for the Territory to have representation in the Senate. But it is something of an irony that we can still not vote in referendums. 
I hope that the rest of Australia will give us the same rights as every other adult Australian has by letting us vote in referendums after May 2 1. 
Apart from the fact that a 'yes' vote will do nothing more than restore the rights Territorians once had, there are a number of other reasons why you should vote yes on May 2 1 . 
It is patently unfair that residents of the Territories should be given second class citizen status. The residents of the Territories pay taxes. They are as subject to the laws of the Commonwealth as any other Australian. And the growing mineral discoveries in the Territory will make its contribution to Australia's overall economic wellbeing all the more important in years to come. 
At the moment, the people of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory suffer a great disadvantage compared with other Australians. 
Denial of the right to vote in referendums is a far greater denial of basic human rights than might first appear. 
It is, after all, surely only fair that people made subject to certain laws should have some say in the framing of those laws. 
But as things have stood since 191 1, the rest of the people of Australia have been able to dictate laws to the people of the Northern Territory without the people of the Territory being given a chance to express their own wishes. 
The only argument put against extending the full adult franchise to voters in the Territories is a suggestion that State rights might somehow be affected. 
But that is just unreal. The fact is that State powers are not going to be interferred with in any way at all. 
The constitutional requirement that majorities of voters in four States must agree to any proposed constitutional change will not be affected by a 'yes ' vote onMay21.TheStateswill still have the protection the Constitution guarantees them. 
The only change to the present law will be that the votes of Territorians will be counted in the overall total. That seems to me to be fair, to be just, and to be democratic. In those circumstances anyone who believes in a fair go for all Australians can do nothing else but vote 'yes '. 
At this stage of the development of the Northern Territory I would call on the States and the Commonwealth Government to recognise the Territory for what it is- an emerging State. I would say here and now that the policies of State and Federal 
Governments must recognise this fact. For too long in the past- we see the same thing happening even today- policies have been made in regard to the Northern Territory in this place and in other places without due regard to the fact that the Territory is emerging into a State. I think that proper recognition should be given to this. I suggest also that Federal members of Parliament, members of Parliament in the States and the people of Australia give some sympathy to the people of the Northern Territory. When I say sympathy' I refer particularly to legislation that is passed which relates specifically to the Northern Territory. Of course, we have seen one piece of such legislation passed recently. I refer to the Aboriginal land rights legislation. This legislation will have and is having a tremendous effect in the Northern Territory. If it is not handled correctly, it will be divisive. If it is not handled properly and with some sympathy we will never achieve what we in the Territory wish to see achieved. That is co-existence- the ability of the various people of the Northern Territory to live alongside each other. 
In this last week we have heard attacks being made on the Majority Leader of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. It has been stated that proper consultation has not taken place. Many remarks have been made which have eroded his character. I suggest that the Majority Leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly is a most honourable person, a person in a most difficult position and a person who is endeavouring to bring legislation into the Northern Territory along the lines that have been set down by this complementary Territory legislation. As I have said, he has a most difficult job to perform. But it is a job that he is quite capable of performing in the interests of all people of the Northern Territory. I refute what has been said in many places- in the media, in the Senate and in another place. Derogatory statements have been made to the effect that he has gone behind the back of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and other people. But I suggest to honourable senators and particularly to the members of the Select Committee on the Northern Territory which oversees the legislation that if one peruses the minutes of the meeting that took place in Darwin just recently, one will find that what he said has been open-minded and most fair. He has not gone behind the back of anyone. 
At times like this I find that I must return to a subject I have always discussed as much as possible and brought before the Senate. I refer once again to the defence of Australia. I think it is most timely now to bring up this point once again because the White Paper on defence was debated some little time ago. This Paper has placed great importance on mobility for the future defence of Australia. I must remind honourable senators who have forgotten or who do not know about the vast sparsely populated areas of the north and our open coastline that there are thousands of kilometres of coastline that remain completely unprotected. It is with regret that I look back and see the way in which the States and the Federal Government have spent money in the past on national roads in the thickly populated areas of Australia where we see the super-roads and super-highways. I suggest that if Australians wish their country to be defended in the future, this pattern must change. I give Australia some 20 years before it will be in defence trouble. I suggest that the Government take another look at the whole situation and spend some of the money that is being spent in the south now to the benefit, I grant you, of the many millions of people who live on the coastline on national highways in the north of Australia. 
There can be no such things as mobility in defence unless we have national highways throughout the top of Australia. Some work has been done. Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia are now linked with a sealed national highway. In fact, the bitumen road now extends up the west coast of Western Australia for quite a distance. But in the top end there is much work to be done between the Northern Territory and the Kimberleys. Work has to be carried out there on many hundreds of kilometres of road. At the moment it is estimated that some ofthe work will be completed perhaps in 2 years. There are other roads in that area that are now just gravel tracks which will take much longer to seal. I refer particularly to the Stuart Highway between the Northern Territory border and Port Augusta in South Australia. This road should have a very high priority in the national roads program. If we are to have mobility I suggest that this area should be given the highest priority and that in the future money should be spent not on super highways around the cities but in the north. 
The honourable senator has referred to railways. Of course it is most unfortunate that at present we have a narrow gauge line between Port Augusta and Alice Springs. The line will always be in poor condition because it has very little foundation and is located in low country. At present a standard gauge railway line is being built from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. Despite rumors this railway line will continue to be built and will be completed in about 5 years. I say to the honourable senator that while I see the value of this railroad to the Centre I also suggest that our national highway system must be improved. The building of this national highway in South Australia would also enhance the economy of that State. At present South Australia is missing out very badly on the Northern Territory market which it has held for many years. 
Before closing I should like to speak briefly about Darwin Harbour. Many reports have come out over the years regarding this area. Once again I refer to historical notes. The document entitled  Provision of General Cargo Facilities at the Port of Darwin  indicates that the first wharf was constructed in 1 869. In 1 894 a proposal for a land-backed wharf across Stokes Bay was rejected. Ever since then there has been a paper chase of reports on the development of the Darwin Harbour which is most vital to the development of the north and for the defence of the north. Nothing has been done for some 70-odd years. Darwin still has not the proper harbour facilities and the wharfage that are required for the development and the defence of the north. 
I am most pleased to support the motion. It was a great pleasure to see Her Majesty the Queen perform the opening ceremony in the Senate. As I have said before, she is a most dedicated and a most courageous woman. Many people in Australia would join with me in indicating their distaste for some of the antics and some of the demonstrations that have taken place while she has been in Australia. She is the Queen of Australia. I believe it ill befits people to take it out on a woman. I have great pleasure in supporting the motion. 
-I direct a question to the Acting Minister for the Northern Territory. The Minister has indicated that, following the request of the Majority Leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, an electoral review committee is to be set up prior to the Northern Territory elections later this year. Is the Minister in a position to advise the names of the persons who are to be appointed to the committee? When will the committee commence its review of the electoral boundaries? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. The  President  of the Northern Territory Teachers Federation has issued a statement entitled  Repair and Maintenance in Aboriginal Schools in the Northern Territory  in which he makes the charge that a serious repair and maintenance problem exists in Northern Territory Aboriginal schools because of a Government decision to limit funds on minor new works. He mentions non-functioning air conditioners in demountable buildings designed for air conditioning and caravan classrooms which have not been connected to electricity, as well as describing the general physical state of buildings as deplorable. Is the Minister aware of the situation as described? If so, what is the present position and what action has been taken or is to be taken by the Government? 
In tabling this general report on the activities of the Public Works Committee, I point out that for the first time the report includes a summary of the progress made on the construction of works proposals after they have been reported on by the Committee. The summary covers the period 1972 to 1975. When reviewing this summary, there is a noticeable time gap between the Department of Construction 's estimated date for the completion of the work and the date the work was actually completed. The average delay was nearly 2 years and was applicable to works both in the Northern Territory and elsewhere. It would be useful to have some response from the Government on the cause of these delays. It will also be noted that there has been escalation in costs. However, as the note at the end of the summary points out, the Department of Construction has made no provision for the escalation of building costs, in accordance with Treasury policy. 

 Senator ROBERTSON (Northern Territory) By leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I consider the remarks that we heard from the previous  speaker  to be particularly mean in their reference to  Senator Bonner.  Honourable senators on both sides of the chamber recognise the many courageous stands made by  Senator Bonner  over the past 12 months, whether they believe in them or not. I have been in this Senate for only a year and  Senator Bonner  has been here for a much longer period, but I believe that he has been a most suitable representative of the Aboriginal race of Australia and I think that they are very fortunate to have him. I have only 15 minutes in which to speak, but I will devote some of my time to  Senator Bonner.  During the hearings of the various select committees on which I have accompanied  Senator Bonner,  as  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory or on other matters relating to the Aboriginal people he was received most cordially and recognised as a man of distinction amongst Aboriginal people. I believe that the attack just made on him was quite unnecessary. The motion before the Senate states: 
That the Federal Government has failed to honour its election promises to Aborigines. 
In dealing with this matter one should go back to the debate which took place in the House of Representatives on 14 September 1976, when the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  introduced a very similar motion, and a reply was made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  The point I make is that this debate took place some 5 months ago, and it has now arrived in the Senate. Why has it arrived in the Senate some 5 months after a similar debate has been answered? If one looks at page 974 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 1 4 September 1976 one will see that the motion was answered completely. I will not go through the matter now because I do not have time, but I refer anybody interested in the matter to that page. Why has this debate been brought forward now? I believe that it has been brought forward because it happens to be 1977 and there will be an election in the Northern Territory in the year 1977. Most of the matters brought up by the honourable senator who moved the motion had very little to do with whether the Federal Government had failed to honour its election promises to Aborigines, but I will come to that in a moment. 
Most of the honourable senator's speech was directed to the Country Liberal Party Majority Leader,  Dr Goff  Letts, in a most derogatory manner.  Senator Keeffe  attacked him time and again and, as I have said before in this Senate, he has very little opportunity to answer the charges that are brought against him. I suspect that the reason for this debate today has little to do with Aboriginal people, and I think it is a pity that the debate has been used as a vehicle to deplore the Aboriginal people. I can assure the Senate that the Aboriginal people, and I speak of the Northern Territory, are absolutely fed up with the publicity and the tripe that is brought up in parliaments and in the media throughout Australia. They say to me: 'Will you please tell those people down south that our heads are going "boom, boom". Will they please leave us alone for a year, say, so that we can think what this is all about.' They cannot think because they have been pounded and pounded by motions such as this. I say that it is not a fair go for the Aboriginal people of Australia. 
Returning to the situation of  Dr Goff  Letts, I believe that this whole debate is for the purpose of making derogatory remarks about a very honourable man, a man who is sincere, genuine, and doing his best for the Aboriginal and other people of the Northern Territory. He has responsibilities, but I think a lot of people are afraid and are not prepared to recognise him as a most honourable man. I have indicated to  Senator Keeffe  that I would seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a statement which appeared in the  Northern Territory News  on Monday, 14 March which would give  Dr Letts  some opportunity to answer the charge. I seek leave to have that statement incorporated in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

LETTS DENIES ALP'S LAND RIGHTS CLAIMS 
The Majority Leader,  Dr Goff  Letts, has denied accusations by  Senator Ted  Robertson and MHR  Mr Les  Johnson over the NT complementary legislation on Aboriginal Land Rights. 
Last week  Senator Robertson  (ALP) a member of the Parliamentary Joint Select Committee on land rights, said ' It would have been much better if, before introducing the legislation,  Dr Letts  had discussed it with the committee and Minister'. 

 Mr Johnson is reported to have said that  Dr Letts  had tried to circumvent the work of  the committee by  introducing land rights legislation in the NT Legislative Assembly. 
At a press conference today  Dr Letts  denied claims and said they were misleading to the public, the Aboriginal people and possibly to the Federal Parliament. 
He produced minutes of a meeting of the Joint Committee on February 7 which stated 'In conclusion  Dr Letts  undertook to provide members of the committee, through the secretary, copies of the proposed NT Legislation as soon as it was presented in the NT Assembly '. 

 Dr Letts said the  chairman Senator Bonner  had asked whether draft legislation would be available in advance and he  (Dr Letts)  had said he was not sure. 
However, if members wished, he would be prepared to provide them with a draft provided these were not used to initiate public debate before members of the NT Legislative Assembly had access to it. 
They said they would be happy to receive it as soon as it was introduced in the Legislative Assembly,'  Dr Letts  said. 
They received the legislation last week. 
This attempt to say I acted wrongfully is quite wrong. 
In fact  Senator Robertson  was present at the time and heard all this.' 

 Dr Letts said the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Viner  also had a copy of the minutes and he was surprised at his attitude in Federal Parliament. 

 Dr Letts said he had a lengthy discussion with  Mr Viner  in Canberra last week. 
He had agreed to meet  Mr Viner  for more discussions and comments. 
The question of the funds that are being spent on Aboriginal people in the Territory has been brought up time and again in this chamber.  Senator Bonner  made the very good point that money in itself is not the main thing. First of all, I should like to go back to the situation of the housing associations in the Northern Territory prior to the election of this Government. We know full well that the Aboriginal housing trust system got completely out of control because the previous Government did not take the opportunity to oversight payments made and actions taken within the associations. What is the situation at this time?  Senator Keeffe  has said quite correctly that tens of thousands of dollars worth of building materials for Aboriginal housing associations in the Northern Territory are lying on the ground. That is quite correct. I can take  Senator Keeffe  and any other honourable senator who wishes to accompany me to the Northern Territory and show them these tens of thousands of dollars worth of materials which have been on the ground for years and are going to waste. It has been on the ground since it was purchased from money allocated by the Labor Government. What happened? An immense amount of money was spent on aboriginal housing. The people themselves had very little to say in the matter. The housing associations were ignored. There was a great rip off during this period when practically everybody under the sun except the Aboriginal people themselves made money. The Aboriginal people did not get money out of it in 2 ways. Firstly, they did not get houses. The houses that were built cost ridiculous amounts like $70 000 and more. In many places those houses were of a poor standard and not complete. Hundreds of thousands of dollars were wasted. 
I mention next the 'rip-off' people. I refer to the consultants and so on- not all of them were con' people- who came in and took the money. Many people did that. The money that was made available was not controlled by the Government and so these people went in and ripped it off. The Aboriginal people were not employed in the construction of the houses. Construction companies were engaged to build the houses on behalf of the Aboriginal people. The whole situation was very farcial. What brought it about? It was brought about because the Labor Government at that time was more concerned with waving the flag and saying: 'We spent $20m, $30m, $40m on Aboriginals'. But it did not take responsible action to ensure that the Aboriginal people derived some benefit from that money. That is what the Hay report is all about. Since its presentation, many things have been done. Money is flowing through now and it is being used to the benefit of the Aboriginal people. The housing associations have been overhauled. The members of some of the housing associations have now been attached to the councils in the various settlements. That means that the Aboriginal people themselves are having some say in matters that affect them. The house designs are such that the homes can easily be erected by Aboriginal people. But, as I have said, some of the houses were absolute mansions and of no use to the Aboriginal people whatsoever. 
The honourable senator says that I am letting my fancy run away. The honourable senator can see in many places in the Northern Territory houses whose construction cost as much as I mentioned previously. All I am saying in that 4 houses could have been built for the price that was paid to build one house. Organisations such as the Bathurst Island Housing Association did a very good job during that period and survived. Unfortunately, because of the lack of control, the lack of help and the lack of assistance to the Aboriginal people at that time the system of housing associations broke down. 
The honourable senator is getting a little touchy. Many consultants were engaged. The point I am making is that the 
Government had no control over those consultants and hundreds of thousands of dollars were wasted. The Aboriginal people are suffering because of that. 
The honourable senator does not like being faced with home truths regarding all the hocus-pocus about the Labor Party supposedly being of benefit to the Aboriginal people. I am indicating that there is another side to the story. Because this is an election year in the Northern Territory, the Labor Party, through a motion such as this, is endeavouring to pull the wool over the eyes of the people in the Northern Territory. 
We need to have a little laugh at times. I direct the attention of the Senate to the amounts of money which have been expended over the years on Aboriginal assistance in such areas as housing, health, education, employment, welfare, enterprises, town management and public utilities, cultural recreation, sporting activities, legal aid and so on. In 1974-75, $158,443,000 was spent in those areas and in 1 975-76 the figure was $ 1 85,798,000. It is estimated that in 1976-77 the figure will be $177m. 
Before concluding I wish to speak very briefly about the unemployment situation of the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory. It is correct that unemployment does exist. If it is the case that Aboriginal people require unemployment benefits, the solution, as  Senator Guilfoyle  has said, can be found simply by bringing that fact to the attention of the authorities. Some Aboriginal people, like some European people, do not wish to work. There is a type of Aboriginal person in the Northern Territory who will not accept the unemployment benefit. I refer to people such as those on Bathurst Island who say that they will take a moral stand. What they mean by that is that they believe that the unemployment benefit is destroying their people and they will not have that. So discussions have taken place with the Department of Social Security, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the Department of the Northern Territory and so on with a view to creating employment for the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory. I am sure that as a result of those moves many initiatives will result to the betterment of the Aboriginal people. 

 Senator Keeffe made a rather derogatory remark about the Electoral Committee in the Northern Territory. The Committee comprises 3 members, two of whom have been on the body for years. The third person, I understand, is a new member. I do not think it is right and fitting that the honourable senator should reflect on that committee which, over the years, has reviewed electoral boundaries. No adverse comments whatsoever have been made on its work previously. In fact, I hasten to say that the review displays much sympathy for Aboriginal and other people in the outback. An examination of the population figures reveals that there are fewer people registered on the electoral roll living in the rural areas than in the urban areas. So, I think that the review does not disadvantage the Aboriginal people; it is to their benefit. 
I do not support the matter of urgency. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade. I refer to the front page of this morning's  Australian,  where under the heading 'Miner can't meet uranium contract', it is reported that Queensland Mines Ltd, owner of Nabarlek uranium deposits in the Northern Territory, cannot meet its contract to supply 300 tonnes of uranium to the Japanese this year. It is further reported that the  chairman  of Queensland Mines,  Mr James  Millner, has stated that because of the borrowing terms imposed by the Government, the interim agreement with the Federal Government to supply uranium from the government stockpile was regarded by the company as impracticable. Is that statement correct? Does the Government intend to take action to ensure that Queensland Mines can fulfil its contract under the 1972 agreement? If the 1972 agreement between the Japanese company and Queensland Mines cannot be fulfilled, will it be detrimental to any future market developed by Australia with the Japanese for the purchase of Australian uranium? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. There appears to be an anomaly in the manufacturing industry at present in relation to the investment allowance. Unless a project is ready for commissioning by mid- 1979 it does not qualify for the higher rate of deduction for the investment allowance. This provision particularly affects large scale projects, often involving investments of millions of dollars, which cannot be guaranteed to be completed by mid- 1979. These projects which do not qualify for the higher allowance therefore have to be bear a higher cost of production and are consequently less competitive. Add to this the uncertainty of long term prospects and industry will probably or possibly have to shelve large scale future projects, thereby aggravating the overall employment situation as well as affecting Australia's future industrial growth. Can the Minister advise why, at a time when the Government is trying to stimulate the economy, create more employment, make industry more competitive and capture export markets, there is a reduction in the investment allowance from taxable income of from 40 per cent to 20 per cent for all projects which cannot be guaranteed to be completed by mid- 1979? 
In speaking to the paper on the National Aboriginal Education Committee, firstly I should like to make some brief comments on the matters raised by  Senator Keeffe.  In the first part of his speech I believe he was quite objective in his approach to the matter, but in the latter part of his speech I thought he was quite unfair and did an injustice to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  when he labelled him with using political karate and said that little black boys and girls would be used in this showcase. Let us be fair. The Minister for Education has been done an injustice if that is what  Senator Keeffe  thinks of him. Quite obviously, the Minister is a sincere man, and the paper he has produced relating to the setting up of the National Aboriginal Education Committee I believe is a major milestone in the education of Aboriginal people in Australia. 
The paper indicates that the role the Committee will play is a very important one and an all-embracing one. It will have much influence on the Minister for Education and on government, and I believe that the reponsibilities which will be given to these people will ensure that many of the faults which have occurred in Aboriginal education over the years, possibly through ignorance, will be corrected. I say that the establishment of the Committee is a major milestone in Aboriginal education because for the first time we will have a permanent committee consisting purely of Aboriginal people to advise the Government. There is one particular point for which I am very thankful and about which I feel very strongly. Many of the people on the Committeelike  Senator Keeffe,  I know many of them- are people from tribal backgrounds, the traditional people about whom I speak quite often in this Senate. 
There is a long story of Aboriginal education extending over many years, but I am not one of those people who attack what has been done in the past. Admittedly, mistakes have been made, but if one attacks what has been done in the past for Aboriginal people in relation to education, it serves as a slap in the face for the very many dedicated people who have worked with Aboriginal people over the last few decades. Going back to 1900 or possible earlier, we know that that was probably the time when a lot of the missionaries started to give attention to the education of the Aboriginal people. Over the years the church authorities have produced many dedicated people who have devoted their lives to the Aborigines. Because I live in the Northern Territory, it would be wrong for me in a debate such as this not to mention and at least pay some homage to the work those people have done. 
One thinks of the missionaries in Arnhem Land who went there in the early 1900s under conditions of extreme hardship. Some went by horse, some came in by boat, and they battled their way through a very inhospitable country. Some of them gave their lives there; some of them are still there. Admittedly their living conditions have improved, but in the days when they went there they lived in extreme hardship. On many occasions the women did not see another white woman for perhaps 6 months or a year, but at least they had friends among the Aboriginal people. That is obvious today when one sees the many Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory who are in their fifties and sixties. When one sees the way that they are able to carry themselves in a white man's society one can understand the education they must have had over the years. As an example, I mention Silas Roberts, who is a leader today. In the southern part of the Territory we see Aboriginal people who have been educated by the Lutheran mission. We see Aboriginal pastors, some 14 to 16 of them, who live in various parts of Central Australia. They are very dignified, wise old men who could live anywhere. One can understand what the Lutheran mission people did in those days. 
Over the last few years many of the people in the departments in the Northern Territory have dedicated their lives to the Aborigines. One thinks of  Mr Jim  Gallagher, a well-known person in the Department of Education, who has written reports and has worked amongst the Aboriginal people and done much for them. One thinks of  Mr Harry  Giese who was previously 
Director of Aboriginal Welfare, and the amount of work he did in the development of settlements and of Aboriginal education. We are most fortunate in the Northern Territory to have  Dr Jim  Eedle as Director of Education. He has not been with us for very long but is obviously a dedicated and interested person. Aboriginal education is now in the hands of these people and, because of that, I believe that we can look to the future with considerable optimism. Nevertheless, we have had a missing link. The missing link is this Consultative Committee of all Aboriginal people. I have known Stephen Albert, who is now the permanent  Chairman  of this Committee, for some time. He comes from Western Australia and is a tribal member of the Bardi people. I have known him in Alice Springs when he was working amongst the Aboriginal people and I have known him since he has come south, doing various work to further his education. I have met him here in Parliament House. I believe that the authorities and the Minister, in choosing Stephen Albert as the first  Chairman  of this Consultative Committee, have made a very good choice and they are to be commended. 
As I said earlier, I am most interested in seeing the make-up of this Committee. I particularly commend the Government on the people it has appointed. I know many of the people from the various tribes in the Northern Territory. I know  Mr Stewart  who is the education officer for the out-stations. Of course, many honourable senators here such as  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Robertson  would know  Ms Margaret  Valadian who is described as a consultant social worker. We know from her work that she is a most intelligent young woman. We know of the work that she has done amongst the Aboriginal people and the interest that she has indicated in them, particularly in the Borroloola area. We no doubt will see from her a great contribution to this Committee. 
I am particularly thankful that we are seeing at last some recognition of the Aboriginal peoplethe tribal people themselves; the traditional people. I believe that over the last few years the tribal people and traditional people have felt that they have been overshadowed by the Aboriginal activists. All honourable senators are aware that there are many Aboriginal activists in Australia today. Many of them are genuine but many are not. Many of these Aboriginal activists work for themselves. As an example, I refer to a recent article in the  Bulletin  dated 19 March 1977 at page 44. When one reads this article on the tribal people bossed around by Jabani Lalara one sees the expression of the tribal people, the traditional owners, coming through most strongly. They want their voices to be heard; they do not wish to be told what to do and they do not wish to be represented by other people. Once again I commend the Government for what it has done in forming this Committee. It has formed the Committee on the right lines. It recognises the Aboriginal people of the outback, the tribal Aboriginal people, the Aborigines who live amongst the Aboriginal people- the type of people who know what is right for the Aborigines and so can advise the Government. 
In the past many mistakes have been made, even though the intentions were good. Many mistakes have been made by the policies that have been laid down over the years. One can look back to a policy made not too many years ago- the policy of assimilation. One presumes that in those days the policy of assimilation was designed to absorb the Aboriginal person to the degree that he would lose his culture and his character and would no longer be known as an Aboriginal person but would become a part of the Australian community. I believe that this is when many of the mistakes were made. Many mistakes were made in the formation and the construction of the settlements in those days because people did not understand and did not try, with few exceptions, to understand the background to the thinking of the Aboriginal people. This is where many of the mistakes were made. 
Mistakes were made in funding but even though such mistakes were made, tens of hundreds of millions of dollars were poured into projects for the good of the Aboriginal people. Unfortunately, many of those tens of hundreds of millions of dollars have been wasted. In the field of education this Committee will have the ability to point out problems to Government, to advise it and to ensure that in the future the moneys that are spent on Aboriginal education are not wasted and will be to the benefit of the Aboriginal people. Looking past the area of assimilation, it was abruptly decided that the Aboriginal people would have self determination. The pendulum swung rapidly from one side to the other and that in itself caused problems. On day we adopted a paternalistic attitude and told the Aboriginal people what was good for them and many things were done for them, but suddenly the pendulum swung to the other side and they were left to a large degree to carry out self determination on their own. This caused hardship for them. It caused hardship because we, as white people with our way of life and in our civilisation these days, have difficulty competing and combating the strains and stresses of our social structure. One can imagine how it affects the Aboriginal people who have never had the grounding that we have had. They experienced great difficulties in endeavouring to live the way of life that we have created. 
As far as I am concerned the future for the Aboriginal people- once again, I speak about the Northern Territory- and the Europeans, the white people, is one of co-existence. When I say co-existence' it is not meant to be taken as a racist statement- far from it. Co-existence means the encouragement of the Aboriginal people to join in the way of life of the white people. We recognise that there is a future for the Aboriginal people. I recognise that the Aboriginal people in Australia will not disappear, as some people think. Some people think that in three or four decades the Aboriginal people will disappear. This will not happen. The Aboriginal people will develop, their numbers will increase and they will take a rightful place in our way of life. Once again, I state that this Committee can assist with this. 
Aboriginal education faces immense problems, particularly when they are compared to the problems of general education of the white children in Australia. During the next few minutes I wish to outline the problems that will confront Aboriginal education in the future. I will outline some of the ways to alleviate these problems over the years. We must understand that no matter what this Government may do, what a Labor government may do, or what any authority may do in the next few years, it cannot be done overnight. We must recognise that there are many problems that will take years to cure. There will be many restrictions that cannot be corrected, overcome or removed overnight. I refer particularly to the provision of schools and facilities for the Aboriginal people. This is an immense problem and it will require time and a considerable amount of money. But we do not have a huge barrel out of which funds can be taken in large amounts overnight. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
Does the Department of Health carry out an immunisation program against diphtheria in the Northern Territory. 
Are all children in the Northern Territory in a position to be immunised against diphtheria, despite their isolation in many cases. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Construction. In view of the above normal rains in the Northern Territory in the last 4 weeks- I might add, the highest March rainfall on record -and the subsequent widespread flooding and cutting of highways and rural roads in the Northern Territory, has the Government sufficient equipment, finance and manpower to cope with this emergency? If equipment, finance and manpower are insufficient, what action is being taken to bring about a general rehabilitation of the roads including both the Barkly and Stuart Highways and other secondary roads, rural and urban, servicing small centres, settlements, cattle stations, etc.? 
Last night I was discussing this ministerial statement on the National Aboriginal Education Committee but the debate was interrupted when the motion for the adjournment of the Senate was proposed. At that time I was referring to the provision of schools. In my closing remarks last night I said: 
This is an immense problem and it will require time and a considerable amount of money. But we do not have a huge barrel out of which funds can be taken in large amounts overnight. 
In making that remark I was referring not so much to the Government as to Australia as a nation. I meant that before us we had a barrel containing funds and those funds must be spread across the nation. We have demands for defence, welfare, the Aboriginal people, national roads and so on. It would be very detrimental if we mortgaged our future by borrowing too many barrels of money from our neighbour in a particular year. We all agree that in respect of Aboriginal education we have very many problems and it is going to take quite a long time to overcome them. Last week I asked a question of  Senator Carrick,  the Minister for Education, in which I described the condition of Aboriginal schools and the repairs and maintenance required. I wish briefly to read part of his answer. He said: 
I must in all honesty say that the condition of Aboriginal schools leaves much to be desired. A great deal of work is to be done. All I can do is undertake, with the best will in the world, to see whether we can overtake the difficulties. There are problems in relation to repairs and maintenance which are necessary at the moment. The honourable senator will recall the matter concerning Elcho Island which was raised recently. We have managed to get a new building program launched there for, I think, Sim. In honesty, the situation is not a good or attractive one. It is one which worries me considerably. 
Those are the words of a very honest man. I suggest that it is up to the Government, the Opposition and the people of the Australian nation to realise the situation that we are in but we need time to correct it. 
We hear a lot from the shadow Minister,  Senator Keeffe.  He wants to be the Minister but as I have said before I have my doubts about whether he will make it. That brings me back to my point about this nit-picking attack on the Aboriginal education scheme. That nit-picking is something I deplore. I deplore it because I believe these attacks are made at the expense of the Aboriginal people. I suggest that rather than getting on the bandwaggon of the Aboriginal people, making complaints and using them, it is time we all joined together as a team to overcome the problems in front of us. 
Once again I want to talk about the Northern Territory scene. I refer the Senate to an answer given to me early last year- I think it was in about April 1976- relating to Aboriginal education. It was indicated that in the Northern Territory there are 20 settlements, very many of them in isolated areas. There are 7 government schools on missions and there are 6 mission schools. These schools are spread across an area of well over half a million square miles. I want to refer to what has happened since 1970-71 in the area of direct Commonwealth expenditure on Aboriginal education. The source of this information is the Department of Education and the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Over those years governments were formed by the Liberal and Country parties, the Labor Party and the Liberal and National Country parties. Over those years there was a tremendous increase in expenditure on Aboriginal education. I seek leave,  Mr Deputy President,  to have this paper incorporated in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted. 
-It is a document that has been circulated. It relates to direct Commonwealth expenditure on education from 1968-69 to 1976-77. It deals with Department of Aboriginal Affairs grants to States, grants in aid, Aboriginal study grants, Aboriginal secondary education grants, Aboriginal overseas study grants and direct expenditure on Aboriginal schooling in the Northern Territory. During that period, as I said before, there was a Liberal-National Country Party Government, a Labor Party Government and so on. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I suggest,  Senator Kilgariff,  that you show the paper to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the Minister in charge of the Bill later on unless leave is now granted for the incorporation? 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT-Is the honourable senator objecting to the incorporation? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Leave is not granted. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  I note that the time for which I can speak is running out.  Senator Keeffe  has cost me a few minutes. I have noticed on many occasions that there has been no objection to the incorporation of material which he has sought to have incorporated. Still, all I can do is to refer people who are interested in the matter to this paper which indicates that over the years there have been substantial increases in national expenditure on Aboriginal education. 
I thank the honourable senator for the offer. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman) Senator Kilgariff,  I suggest that you again try to have the document incorporated towards the end of your speech. 
Yes, I shall. As I have said before, I think it is time that this nit-picking in regard to Aboriginal education should cease. Over the last few weeks many questions have been asked and many comments have been made regarding the lack of finance for Aborigianl education, maintenance and so on in the Northern Territory. In a series of questions over the last two or three weeks we have asked  Senator Carrick,  the Minister for Education, about a departmental report which was made in 1973. It has not been my wish that it should be tabled in the Senate, but if there is to be continued criticism of the lack of maintenance to these schools in the Northern Territory, as if this happened only in the last year, then I suggest to the Minister for Education that this departmental report be tabled in the Senate so that the rest of the Senate and the Australian people generally can judge for themselves who is at fault. I was a member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in this period and I am fairly aware of the contents of that report. I suggest that in the report, which was made by departmental officers in 1973, the work which was required on the schools in that year is clearly indicated. It is my understanding that the report was unacceptable. The work was not carried out. 
So now, in 1 977, 1 suggest that we are in a situation of jeopardy. The work which should have been done over the years has not been carried out. 
Do not let us cry over spilt milk. It is of no use looking at the past. Let us look to the future and do something about it. In doing something about the future, I suggest that we look at the type of school which has been built in various parts of Australia. Having in mind that finance is limited as far as the nation is concerned, we have to get away from the expensive monoliths which are being designed by architects with grandiose ideas. The monuments are far too costly and not worth the money. Let us have schools which will spread throughout the community, having in mind the amount of money which is available to us. Recently I was in the Northern Territory with the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Public Works. I was most interested in the thoughts which came forward from officers of the Department of Construction when they were discussing the standard buildings for schools on a modular grid with standard prefabricated components. I suggest that in the outback this is the type of school which we need. This is the type of school which can possibly be put up much more economically. As it is a prefabricated school, it can be built quickly in any place and, in years to come if it were needed to be removed and sent elsewhere, then that could be done. I suggest to the Government that this is a very easy means of economising for the future. 
My next point relates to the provision of teachers in the education scheme, particularly for Aboriginal people. This is a difficult matter.  Senator Robertson  made some remarks today regarding the matter. He said that teachers were disappointed because of employment and living conditions and that they would not go into the bush. He drew a certain assumption from that. I draw another assumption. The assumption I make is that we have a large number of Aboriginal children in the outback who need to be educated, but conditions are such that teachers who come from the southern States find the living conditions very strange. If there is to be some development in the Aboriginal education scheme, we must train many more Aboriginal teachers. I say this for very many reasons. At present we have several Aboriginal teaching aides. They are trained in Batchelor as are the Aboriginal teachers. We have Aboriginal teachers in their own right teaching in the schools. This scheme must be developed not only because they know the children they teach and because they live in the environment in which they have to teach, but also because they bring to the children the Aboriginal culture and they give to the Aboriginal children understanding and confidence. At the same time, we have dedicated teachers from the education scheme. 
As I said last night, many of these teachers have been in the Territory and in the outback of Australia for very many years. But there is a fault within the education system, that is, that we have many young teachers offering their services in the Northern Territory with many going to Aboriginal schools, but in their training facilities, in becoming a teacher, as far as I know there is no curriculum or training in teaching Aboriginal children. So they go into a strange environment. The Aboriginal children are strange to them. In those situations I suggest that we do not get the best out of the system. A lot of these teachers are dedicated but I also suggest that some teachers who come into the system are young and immature. Because of this I do not think they are well suited to teaching Aboriginal children. 
When moving around the Territory one can see the problems which arise from this situation. I think there would be absolutely no argument. If Aboriginal education is to be developed and is to be successful we should have an enlarged training scheme for Aboriginal teachers and for teaching aides so that gradually, over the years, they will take the place of the European teacher. The European teacher will always have a place there but I think there must be more encouragement. Of course, we have the provision which allows Aboriginal children to retain their culture. This is most important. If this is not carried out we will have a group of Aboriginal children growing up with no knowledge of their background, their history or their culture. I think this would be most unfortunate. So I suggest that for the future these things be carried out. 
I shall spend a few minutes discussing the problems of educating Aboriginal children today. I do not think the educating of Aboriginal children will be completely successful until many other problems are overcome. First of all, we should look at the health of Aboriginal children and Aboriginal people generally. On many settlements the children are well cared for and healthy but there are many areas where the children are living in conditions which are completely different from the way of life they followed as nomads. They then did not have the problems of health which they experience today because they were always on the move. But now in the crowded settlements, with tribes crowded together, the environment is quite foreign to their past. Through the increase in population, as everyone must admit, there are health problems. Another problem which makes Aboriginal education very difficult concerns the phase which is developing now- one which I encouraged- involving the fragmentation of large settlements, with which I and many other people have never agreed, with the people moving to outstations. 
These families and clans are gradually breaking away from the settlements and going to live once again in family or clan groups on what are called outstations. 
The honourable senator should open his ears because I said at the beginning that it was a principle with which I agreed. However, whilst I agree with the principle, this move is bringing about problems in education and I do not have to spell out the reasons. The fact is that when there is this fragmentation of families and clans who go into the bush with their children, there are problems associated with bringing health and education to them. It would be a problem in any country, whether European or Aboriginal, where this fragmentation occurred. The result is that we now see teachers going out under the trees and spending a number of hours a week with the Aboriginal people. I would say that this is taking only one small bite of the apple. The complete answer- and I believe it is a complete answer, as I have indicated before- is an increase in the number of Aboriginal teachers and teaching aides. 
The other problem is immense and it is one that will prevent the education of Aboriginal people completely or to our satisfaction. I refer to the consumption of liquor by Aboriginal people. I have no doubt that there are many honourable senators who have been in the outback in the Territory and who, having seen the problems which exist because of liquor, fully realise that despite what  Senator Carrick  has in mind, despite his enthusiasm and good intentions, he will not be able to achieve what he wishes to achieve until we overcome this problem, and it will not be easy. Aboriginal children are taken away from school by parents who are going elsewhere to drink. The Aboriginal people move out from the settlements when they are on the liquor and in these settlements there is neglect of children. Last year in answer to a question on notice regarding the enrolment of Aboriginal children in the Northern Territory in each pre-school, primary school and secondary school on settlements and missions in the Northern Territory, the Minister indicated that in April last year there were 5316 children enrolled. There would be many more now. I also asked what was the attendance at these schools and an attendance figure of 4068 was given. I suggest in view of the way that I asked my question that I was given the wrong answer. The attendance figure given suggests that if a child attended school on one day in a year his attendance would be registered. In the schools on some of the settlements 100 per cent attendance is indicated. That is not my understanding of the situation. I have been to an Aboriginal school in the outback of Australia where the attendance was down to 23 per cent or 25 per cent at one time because on the river there was a store which had liquor and it drew the Aboriginal people to it. The children were taken too. I have seen, on the other hand, as the result of the dedication of teachers, attendance at the schools around 90 per cent. 
There are tremendous problems. There are very interesting aspects of Aboriginal children going to school. Last year when I was in Arnhem Land I asked an Aboriginal man whether his 4 sons were going to school. He said that they were not. 1 asked what they were doing and he replied that he was taking 3 of his sons out into the bush where he was going to teach them the way he lived. Then he added, and this is interesting, that he had one son who was going to school to learn about the white man's ways. So this one child on the mission will be the go-between for this man and the rest of his sons who will be brought up to the nomadic way of life according to the old culture. There are many problems ahead in ensuring that as many Aboriginal children as possible are educated. 
There is one group of people which I deplore and I referred to them last night. They are what I call the activists who wish to take over the role of speaking for the Aboriginal people. They often are people with political aims. These people, and they are numerous in Australia today, are not good for the Aboriginal people. Before I close my remarks I would like to speak about what I call the forgotten group among the Aboriginal people. They are the part Aboriginal people. In all my years in the Territory I have grown up with many such people. Many are grown men now living in extreme difficulty. They are forgotten people because there is much more concentration these days on the education of Aboriginal people on missions and settlements with insufficient thought given to these part coloured children who are living under extreme difficulty. They are going to primary and high schools but the type of education that is being offered to them, academic-type education, is not for them and because of this they feel that they are not wanted and start imagining that the teachers are against them. They get a chip on their shoulder. I am suggesting that the curriculum is wrong and that these children, who are very intelligent, would be much better off if they were trained to use their hands rather than trained for some academic future which is not for them. If something is not done for these children there will be many social problems ahead for us and I can see these problems occurring already in very many areas. 
I support the new National Aboriginal Education Committee. I believe that it is a milestone because for as far back as I can remember this is the first time that we have had a completely Aboriginal committee to advise the Minister for Education and the Government. It will bring much to government because not only is it an all Aboriginal committee and many of its members have been teaching aides and have had a certain amount of experience, but also on this Committee there will be Aboriginal people from the tribes of Australia, the traditional people. When I started my speech last night I said that the traditional people, the tribal people, had been waiting too long to have their voice heard. Too many people have endeavoured to speak for them. I believe that this is their first opportunity to come forward and say what they want. They will do this. They will assist not only their own Aboriginal people, but also Government. I would think that they will save government many millions of dollars in the future.  Mr Stephen  Albert is the full-time  chairman  of the National Aboriginal Education Committee. As I have said before, he is a tribal member of the Bardi people from Western Australia and is a person who can guide his Committee. I congratulate him on his appointment. I believe also that the Government is to be congratulated on the move it has made. I look forward to following the future - 
There goes  Senator Keeffe  who sits opposite nitpicking again. All he can do is bring petty politics into a situation. I have said before that I think this matter is above politics. I think that he should get off the bandwagon of the Aboriginal people. Instead of nitpicking, he should get his head down. Instead of always criticising he should come forward with some ideas. He should engage in some teamwork. All I can say is that if we have this type of criticism and acting in the Senate, little will be gained. Before I conclude my remarks, I seek leave to have the document to which I referred, incorporated in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman) Senator Kilgariff  asked earlier whether he could incorporate a document in 

 Hansard. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition asked whether he could have a look at it. I now ask the Senate whether it will grant leave to have the document incorporated in  Hansard.  There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="072232197703304_50_2.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Senate. 
I appreciated the very thoughtful speech made to us tonight by  Senator John  Knight. Everyone would agree that we must appreciate the case he presented to us. I am not here tonight to join in with either Opposition members or Government supporters in throwing arguments across the floor about the Timor situation. I am sad and bitter, and perhaps to a degree I am cynical, to find that tonight we are debating the Timor situation. To my mind the gate was opened some time ago and the horse has bolted. Why did this Parliament and Australia not express their feelings, as they are now being expressed throughout this country and in this Parliament, some 2 years ago when the horse was still in the yard? Why did they not express their feelings then instead of now when the horse has bolted? 
Timor is of particular significance to me. It has a special significance for many reasons. I believe, as I have said in many places, that Australia has owed a debt to Timor for very many years- ever since the Second World War. I will go into that a little later. Of course East Timor is our nearest neighbour. As  Senator Bonner  said tonight, if one flew in a jet aircraft from the mainland of 
Australia in the vicinity of Darwin, one would be in Timor in a mutter of minutes. 
Some little while before the civil war in Timor I spent some time there. I went off the beaten track of the tourists. I spent a considerable amount of time at Baucau. Dili. Tutuala and Viqueque. 1 was off the beaten track at very many villages along the coast and in the highlands of Timor. I spent very many happy days wilh these pi-i  lilli-  traveling with ihi-m. eating wilh them and joining m mi-ir I. in I !&gt;&lt;.-v "e re a very friendly people. I hey were ;i very poor people. 1 think their poorness is ;i charge against Australia. They arc our nearest neighbours and they have lived in such a poor state, but over the years we have done nothing for them. 1 wandered around East Timor with them. I mct many people. 1 met many old men who came out to me in the villages. Because I was wearing bush clothes 1 suppose they recognised them as similar to the Australian Army uniform. They came out with beams on their faces. They are a very sincere people. In the last war these people did so many things to take the side of the Australian troops who were cut oil" in Timor. These people fed the Australians, and they looked alter them under the threat of death. As we all know, in those days if the Japanese found anyone assisting the Australian troops who were pin-pricking them, it was death to those Timorese. 
While with them I moved in the various areas where the Australians had been in action. I went through the caves which the Japanese had dug. I was in the highlands where an Australian aircraft had landed and where the Timorese people had rescued the Australians from under the noses of the Japanese. The Japanese later, on this very large plain, had dug mounds every 40 or 50 yards and planted a tree in order to prevent further aircraft coming in. I mct many of these people. I met a woman who was a young girl when the Australians were there. She was the wife of the administrator in Maubisse. She. with many of the Timorese had walked across the mountains. I think it took some 2 days and 2 nights. Many of these people went out with the Australian troops when the destroyer finally came in and took them off. So many of these Timorese people caine with the Australian troops. Those who had assisted Australians and who could not bc left behind came to Australia. I believe that they lived in a small town in New South Wales until the end of the war. During this period some of the Timorese men who had assisted the Australians in Timor trained wilh the Australian troops. In Darwin a few months ago I was able to sec some papers which these old mcn had. They had trained with the Australian troops with the view of parachuting back into their country to assist in the fight against the Japanese. 
As I said, in this brief period I had in Timor I met many Timorese and I made many friends. It was always my intention to go back. In fact, I think I would have stayed there much longer if I had not, of necessity, had to come back to Australia. Since the civil war and the invasion by Indonesia into Timor, I have met many of the refugees in Australia. Most of them are in Darwin. Some have come down and stayed with me in my home in Alice Springs. I have met these Timorese often. In fact, it was about three or four months ago that they said they wished to see me. It was arranged that on a Sunday I should meet them. But a hall in Darwin was not conveniently available and so it was decided that I should meet them in 4 different houses. I think I started meeting at 4 o'clock in the afternoon and I finished at midnight. I met many of these people. They gathered in 4 houses in the area of Darwin. I met the old people who had come out as refugees; I met the young people and the middle aged people. The thing that struck me was that they were sad and fearful for the people they had left behind in Timor. But they, did not come to Australia and ask for handouts. They did not go to the Department of Social Security. Every Timorese that I met had a job in Darwin. Engineers were gardening. People with experience in this and that were picking up jobs here and there. Everyone had a job except for a mere handful of people who were in ill health. It was mainly the old people who could not work. In all the contact that I had with them, what made an impression on me was the urgency within them. The urgency was: What has happened to our people in Timor? Can we bring out our family? Many of the families are split up. Some people arrived without a husband or a wife or perhaps without their children. Many families have been smashed and they wish to be reunited. 
When I meet these people I am considerably humbled. Also, as I have said before, I am impressed with the desire they have to be reunited. They are very much family people. It is this fact which has been impressed on me by these people which forms the action which I am taking in this debate. I have met  Mr Dunn.  I recognise him as a very genuine and sincere person, just as Neville Bonner,  Senator Missen  and other people who have had contact with the Timorese are sincere. I appreciate what they have said and I appreciate their feelings. But it is with considerable bitterness that I feel that Australia has let the Timorese down. I cast my mind back to after the war when Australia did nothing for the Timorese. They saved our troops and did all these things. We sent back to Timor after the war those who had come out here, and we did nothing for them. They are very poor people. I have seen them walk for two or three days to market. Then, in the 1 960s, we withdrew our Australian Consul to Timor. The Timorese said: 'Australians are our friends. They will do everything for us. But why did they take away the Consul?' I said: 'I do not know'. While I was there it was quite obvious that the Portuguese were doing nothing for the Timorese. The Portuguese had been there for some 400 to 500 years and had formed a type of civilisation but the Timorese had been given nothing. It was apparent that while the Portuguese were holding the Timorese down- the Timorese were not allowed to have political meetings or anything like thatthere was a sense of unrest. 
What happened was that the Portuguese with little warning moved out of Timor, abrogated their responsibilities and allowed this ferment to develop in Timor with the result that there was civil war. It was then that the United Nations, Australia and others who had some responsibilities to Timor should have taken action because if there had been a peace force in Timor then, whether in the form of an Australian police force without arms or a United Nations force, there would not have been any bloodshed. I would say that if Portugal had only come to an agreement with Australia and Indonesia and that if there had been a force of Australians in Timor there would not have been any bloodshed. The Timorese would have looked to Australia and would have worked out their future. As I said last night, why cry over spilt milk? But, unfortunately, in a situation like this we have to do so. 
It is my intention tonight not to support either the amendment or the original motion. I do so for 2 particular reasons. After all this contact with the Timorese people and having seen the fear within them and in view of their wish to be reunited with their people, if I voted for either the amendment or the original motion in the Senate and either were carried and as a result possibly the Indonesians broke off negotiations with Australia on the reuniting of these people I would feel responsible. It is for that reason and that reason alone that I cannot support either the amendment or the original motion. I have sympathy for them and it is within me to support them if for no other reason than to have the satisfaction of expressing my indignation at what has happened, but I cannot do that. I cannot support the amendment or the original motion because I believe that it may prejudice the future reunion of the Timorese people. 
When I consider what might be achieved by a select committee- perhaps a lot could be achieved; perhaps not- I think it would be very difficult to ascertain the facts of the case because I doubt whether the facts are known in Australia. I doubt whether the air can be cleared. It is for the reasons that I have given that I make this decision. I believe that Indonesia has done a very wrong thing. Timorese people have told me of the excesses that have happened in Dili and other places. In fact I have seen 2 letters that were smuggled out of Dili while the Indonesian troops were posted in Singapore and they both indicate that the oppressors, the Indonesians, had treated them very badly. I will not go on at length. One could speak for hours on this subject. I do not support the motion though I have an inclination to do so. However, I feel that if I did I could jeopardise the reunion of the East Timorese people. 
-I direct a question to the Acting Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it correct that companies and individuals, particularly in the industrial, pastoral and mining spheres, are indicating reluctance to invest or to continue development in the Northern Territory because of particular issues that are now becoming more apparent since the commencement of the Northern Territory Aboriginal land rights legislation. I refer particularly to the fact that pastoral leases at the turnover point, that is the exploration of the lease, can become unalienated land and available to claim, and to the recognition of the secondary succession principle which could mean the acceptance that all land in the Northern Territory is open to claim. Because the claiming of land is open-ended there is no terminating date for the acceptance of claims in the future. Land held under Aboriginal reserves and land claims is rising steadily, encompassing at present probably 36 per cent to 40 per cent of the land area of the Northern Territory. If the situation is not as I have described it will the Minister make a statement correcting that viewpoint and further establish communications with the people of the north to ensure that this fear of the unknown for the future is dispelled? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) Did the Government indicate that some $250,000 of medical supplies were to be made available to Indonesian authorities, to be used in Timor; if so, have these supplies been delivered to Timor? 
If the medical supplies were delivered to Timor, have the Indonesian authorities used these supplies for the benefit of the Timorese people? 
3 ) Where and when were these supplies used? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 1 7 March, 1 977: 
Did the Australian Government, more than a year ago, indicate that there was to be a period of amnesty for illegal immigrants in Australia to allow them to apply for permanent Australian citizenship. If so, how many people came forward during the amnesty. 
Of the applications received, what are the figures for the different nationalities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 29 March 1977: 
1 ) When is the microwave link to be extended from Tennant Creek to Alice Springs. 
What number of lines will it provide for subscriber trunk dialling and television. 
What work has been carried out and is being carried out, and when is it likely to be completed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on29 March 1977: 
1 ) Is the Darwin wharf antiquated, inefficient, in poor condition, possibly unsafe for present-day use and not able to cope with the future development of Darwin, the mining and pastoral industries, and the development of the north generally. 
What is the present position with regard to upgrading the Darwin Harbour, taking into consideration the necessity to provide not only for the victualling and maintenance of small ships, but the servicing of naval patrol craft. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. The Fourth Report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation has recommended in relation to the Ayers Rock-Mount Olga National Park that: 
The Northern Territory Reserves Board commence essential interim work in the Park during the 1977-78 financial year; 
The Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service devise and implement quickly a comprehensive management plan for the Park; 
During the 1977-78 financial year construction of a new airstrip outside the Park boundaries be commenced; and 
During the 1977-78 financial year sealing the Erldunda-Ayers Rock road be commenced. 
In view of the urgent necessity to upgrade facilities at Ayers Rock to ensure adequate health facilities, to give impetus to the tourist industry and to safeguard this unique area, what are the Government's intentions concerning each of the  4  recommendations of the Committee? 
I direct a question concerning another newspaper report to the Minister for Education. I refer to page 3 of the  Australian  of today, Wednesday, 27 April, and to an article entitled 'Top college left to die' in which a university researcher claimed that a successful college of advanced education was being abandoned because of careless and inadequate education reports. He cites Mount Nelson College of Advanced Education and Victoria's fourth university, Deakin, as examples. In view of the somewhat serious charges made by  Dr Neil  Nillson, that inquiries into post-secondary education are in jeopardy because of shoddy educational theorising, etc., will the Minister state whether the claims made by this researcher have any foundation? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Science. Is it correct that there has been a balloon launching program in the Australian outback for the last few years? If so, what is the present programming for balloon research? What research is being carried out, and in what localities? What plans are envisaged for future research in this balloon launching program? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that the joint defence facility at Pine Gap near Alice Springs is under the control of the Australian Government and that all movement of personnel, either United States or Australian personnel, is regulated by the Australian Department of Defence? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government. I refer to various allegations made recently by  Mr Philip  Agee, a former Central Intelligence Agency agent, with regard to CIA activities and other matters in Australia. Does the Government consider that such statements are authentic or that the statements that have been attributed to Philip Agee may be based on hearsay and are possibly a hoax? What is the present whereabouts of Philip Agee? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Construction. In view of the breakdown in the prices and wages pause, firstly by the Premier of South Australia withdrawing from the Heads of Government agreement and, later, by the effects of the wage decision on 24 May by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, is it now the intention of the Government to discontinue its announced decision to vary the terms of Government contracts by negating the rise and fall provisions and freezing the effects of the national wage increase? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
What arrangements have been made in the Northern Territory for polling booths, postal votes and absentee votes for the voluntary poll for a tune for a national song to be held on 21 May 1977. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. Is the Minister aware of a report in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 30 April 1977 which states: 
Darwin homes unsafe- '1200 houses are not cycloneresistant'. 
It goes on to refer to a study by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and states: 
The study said that the Darwin Reconstruction Commission had compromised some of the 'high standards discussed shortly after Cyclone Tracy' although the Building Board and private sector were in favour of them. 
Is this report an accurate assessment of these houses? If so, what action is being taken to ensure that proper safety standards are being enforced? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It has been reported by the media that after consultation with  Mr Nixon  the South Australian Transport Minister,  Mr Geoff  Virgo, has finally selected a route for the Stuart Highway south of the Northern Territory border to Port Augusta and has now indicated that the decision rests with the Federal Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development,  Mr Kevin  Newman.  Mr Virgo  said that the South Australian Highways Department would commence investigative and planning activities but it was not possible to start significant road works before 1978-79. He said that he did not envisage any real progress in the building and sealing of the highway before the turn of the decade, subject to finance being made available from the Federal Government. In view of the fact that many many representations have been made to the Government, will the Federal Government take an active role in giving the highest possible priority to this national highway project to overcome the procrastination and reluctance on the part of the South Australian Government to proceed urgently with this project? Has any Federal finance been made available from the Federal Government for the sealing of any part of this road, for example, between Port Augusta and Bookaloo? Is the road to be financed by the Federal Government without any contribution by the State? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. In the last 12 months the Government has commenced or completed many major health projects in the Northern Territory such as hospitals, extra hospital wards, health centres, etc., which will enhance the ability of the Government to bring better health both to urban and isolated dwellers in the Territory. However, the efficient operation of these projects has been hindered by lack of staff, both professional and industrial. While I believe that many areas in the Northern Territory are suffering because of these shortages, I refer particularly to the Darwin Hospital which urgently needs increased staff ceilings. Last year there was a requirement for a further 121 personnel. Lately there has been an increase of forty. It still leaves a minimum requirement of more than 80 people. Will the various authorities, such as the Government, the Public Service Board, etc., give the highest priority to reviewing the situation? Will this reassessment of requirements take place in Darwin rather than in Canberra, to ensure that the people in this rapidly developing northern city are given medical attention similar to that received in the southern States and to reduce strain on those dedicated people already working in the field of health in the Northern Territory? 
Australia has the national brucellosis eradication program aimed at achieving provisional free status from brucellosis by 1984. The date 1984 has been set to conform with export markets overseas. It has been indicated by the United States of America that by 1984 it expects that the program it has carried out will be completed and it then intends not to purchase cattle from overseas that are not brucellosis free. That represents 0.2 per cent of current imports. In the last few years, Australia has been carrying out a lengthy campaign- a large amount of money has gone into it- to bring about this situation by 1984. Australian cattle by that date should be free of brucellosis. I am afraid that as time passes, by 1 984, when our cattle should be brucellosis free, Australia will not be in that situation. The result will be that when we are looking for export markets for beef overseas we may well be frustrated. Some States are much better off than others at present. Some are carrying out a more sustained eradication program than other States. Some States have many cattle infected with brucellosis. 
The matter I wish to speak about this afternoon relates to the Northern Territory. I do not think that many people realise the serious situation that exists in the Northern Territory today. I refer to the large number of cattle in the Northern Territory. According to reports coming in, people in the Northern Territory have not really been aware of the serious problem of brucellosis until the last few months. Recently, a beef conference was held in Alice Springs. Many interstate people attended it and many departmental officers presented reports. In the last couple of weeks during Estimates Committee hearings when officers of the Department of the Northern 
Territory appeared it became obvious that there were many serious problems in the Northern Territory. Perhaps it is not generally known that in the Northern Territory in 1972 there were 1 105 000 cattle. By 1976 the total had increased to 1 795 000 cattle, an increase of some 688 000 head of cattle or a 62 per cent increase in the last 4 years, I stress with my knowledge of the Northern Territory, that that is a conservative estimate of the cattle numbers. 
This increase has happened for many reasons. Beef markets throughout Australia and overseas have dropped away and the price paid for cattle has decreased, particularly in the Northern Territory which is a long way from the markets. The fact that the market price has dropped to an uneconomic price, that transport costs of cattle have increased by 98 per cent in the last few years and that labour and fuel costs have increased has brought about a situation in which many cattle stations in the Northern Territory are now operating uneconomically. Many are operating at a loss with the result that less and less cattle are being turned off in this area. It is a fact that some people have walked off their leases. Others who have not walked off their leases- I am speaking particularly of the smaller stations- cannot afford to continue to operate their leases efficiently because they do not have the financial resources. Employees have been put off. This has brought the proper running of these cattle stations to an end and in many cases the owner or the manager is merely sitting on the property, unable to provide proper stock control. For instance, mustering is not carried out as it should be, branding is not being carried out, fencing and all the usual maintenance repairs on a station are not being carried out. 
Because cattle are not being sold and there is no market for them, there has been a rapid increase in the number of cattle in the Northern Territory, but without proper stock control. So at this time when we are looking forward to 1 984 as a time when Australia should be brucellosis free, we are seeing a situation in which instead of progress being achieved the eradication program is dropping away. In answer to a question I asked on 24 May regarding bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Ian  Sinclair, said: 
The bovine Brucellosis and Tuberculosis Eradication Program in the Northern Territory may be in jeopardy if the depressed state of the pastoral industry continues much longer. Properties which commenced test and slaughter before the slump and had improved fencing, watering and yarding facilities, will be able to continue to eradicate these diseases effectively in 1 977. While one of the major pastoral companies in the Top End is to enter the scheme to eradicate tuberculosis this year, generally small resident owner properties with limited cattle handling facilities, fencing and finance will be unable to enter the scheme until the industry recovers and/or Government assistance is granted. 
It is estimated, after looking at the debate on the report of Estimates Committee E over the last few weeks, that some $2,700m is to be made available for rural adjustment through primary producer board loans. Of that amount $ 1,450m is for rural adjustment, $600,000 for beef carry on loans and $650,000 for processing and developing expenditure. What appears to have been overlooked- or if it has not been overlooked then it is this Government's intention not to take this action-is the fact that there is no freight subsidy for the transport of cattle. It was pointed out to the Government a few years ago that problems were being experienced by the industry. Cattle numbers were increasing and the freight rates charged for transporting cattle to the markets were so high that it was uneconomical for the small pastoral leases to muster their cattle and sell them. At that time it became necessary for the good of the country that a freight subsidy be introduced. This was done with the result that to date $278,739 has been made available to transport some 90 000 head of cattle. Of this amount $190,370 was for road transport, $49,843 was for transport on Queensland railways and $38,526 was for transport on Australian National Railways. Payments were made to 1 10 producers. At present several claims are still under examination. But the situation in the Territory has not changed. This subsidy was of considerable assistance to the beef producers of the Northern Territory and enabled them to some degree to shift cattle from the Territory into Queensland and into South Australia. At least the subsidy gave them some assistance in the cost of transporting their cattle, but it is not now available to them. One wonders why the Government has not seen fit to introduce a freight subsidy for this coming year. 
Let me deal with the number of cattle in the Northern Territory and particularly in the Alice Springs area, which is an arid area with an annual rainfall averaging 8 to 10 inches. Fortunately the annual rainfall in this area over the last few years has been averaging 20 inches, 24 or 28 inches, and this of course has saved the day for the producers. It has been estimated that the safe carrying capacity in this area is about 280 000 to 290 000 cattle. A report on the Northern Territory pastoral industry which was made available within the last 4 weeks said that the current cattle population in the Alice Springs district is reckoned to be 5 17 000 head, of which between 320 000 and 350 000 head are estimated to be females over 12 months. Taking the lower figure of 320 000 and a conservative calving rate of 50 per cent, we can expect an increase of 160 000 head through calving before the end of the next summer. I would say that on a conservative estimate the number of cattle in the Alice Springs area could be about 550 000 to 600 000 head at that time. Bear in mind that the safe carrying capacity of this area is 280 000 to 290 000. 
It is a desperate situation. It is not only a desperate situation as far as cattle producers are concerned but also as far as the country is concerned because as I have said before, it is most fortunate that we have had such good seasons- the best on record- to enable the area to carry 100 per cent more than the normal safe carrying capacity. This has been brought about because of good seasons which we have had for the past 5 years. On the law of averages, this being an arid area, these good seasons must cease. This could very well happen in this coming year. There is also the problem of bushfires which are difficult to control in this area. It could well be that we will find the centre of Australia going into a dry period, possibly into a drought period, at a time when it is carrying some 600 000 head of cattle when there should be only some 280 000 to 290 000. Not only is this a serious situation for the beef producer but it is also a most serious situation for this country when so many head of cattle are being carried in this area at a time when they cannot be sold or removed. The over-grazing could have extremely serious consequences. 
I am speaking not only of the Alice Springs area. The Barkly tableland district turned off 76 000 head in the 1975-76 financial year from a population estimated to be 459 000. The population increase has not been so dramatic in this area for various reasons, such as some large stations acting as depots, some of the stations being able to continue to transfer stores to their channel properties, the Queensland abattoirs continuing to take cull cows and some stations continue a speying program. A survey of the Victoria River district estimated the cattle population to be 498 000 head. In the 1975-76 year 28 000 head were turned off to Western Australia, the Katherine abattoirs and overseas. This turn-off is far less than the natural increase, and the district is thought to have a cattle population excess of about 100 000 head. I refer also to the livestock returns in the Darwin and Gulf districts which indicate a cattle population of 3 1 9 000 head. The turn-off was only 1 1 000. So, overall, there is a rapidly increasing cattle population where the natural increase far exceeds the turn-off to the various States. This is an extremely serious situation. 
I return to the brucellosis problem. The summary of the results of the brucellosis campaign in the Northern Territory over the years, commencing in 1 965-66, shows that the prevalence in that year was 8 per cent. The rate has varied; it has gone up and down over the years. In 1966-67 it was 0.3 per cent; in 1967-68 it was 1.1 per cent; in 1969-70 it was 12.8 percent. In the following 3 years it was 9.8 per cent, 4.2 per cent and 5. 1 per cent respectively. In 1973-74 it was 0.7 per cent. That rate was getting within sight of the projected aim for 1984 of 0.2 per cent. But then, in 1974- 75, the prevalence rose to 1.1 per cent. In 1975- 76 it was 0.9 per cent; and last year, 1976- 77, it was 1.3 per cent. I do not know whether it is fair to compare the rate of 1 .3 per cent in 1976-77 with the rate of 1.1 per cent in 1 967-68, which shows that the rate is higher than it was 10 years ago. 
Perhaps, for some reason, it is not a fair comparison; but perhaps it is a fair comparison. If it is a fair comparison and if Australia's future depends on it being free of brucellosis and tuberculosis by 1984, the fact that the cattle populations of the Northern Territory are out of control for various reasons- the excess of natural increase over turn-off; the fact that the cattle stations in the Northern Territory at present, at least, are not viable economically in many instances; costs are defeating the operator; he is not in a position to control his herds properly; and mustering is allowed to slip by- means that this eradication program must break down. The Northern Territory is in a desperate situation. This applies not only to the Northern Territory; it will affect the whole of Australia. The point I am making today is that if we wish to protect our export marketthe big question these days is whether it will be the European Economic Community, Japan or sending live cattle to northern countries such as the United States of America- we have to take more notice of this desperate situation. Overcoming this problem is beyond many cattle producers because, as I have said, they are in a poor economic situation. I believe that in the national interest the Government must become more aware and take more action. Because of the poor economic situation of these people I believe that the Government must assist in the mustering of cattle and in the program of eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. 
I believe also that this is not the time to remove the freight subsidy for this industry. This subsidy  made quite a difference to the producer in that it allowed some 90 000 to 100 000 head to be transported to Queensland and South Australia. But now, when the producers are in the most serious situation, there is no plan- at least I see no announcement of it anywhere, and in discussions with departmental officers in Estimates Committee E recently there was no indication that a freight subsidy was forthcoming, to enable the cattle to be shifted out. It is a must that a freight subsidy be provided for this industry. I do not think I can say anything further on this matter. As I have said before, in the space of some 4 years the cattle population in the Northern Territory has increased by 680 000 head, or 62 per cent. I draw the nation's attention to the fact that this is not merely a problem for the Northern Territory; it is one of which Australia must take note. 
asked the Minister representing the Minster for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
1 ) Is the brucellosis and bovine tuberculosis eradication program in jeopardy because of the depressed state of the pastoral industry in the Northern Territory, with small returns affecting the control of herds and thereby further compounding the situation. 
If the program is in jeopardy, having in mind the fact that Australia is aiming at being brucellosis-free by 1984, what action is the Government taking to eradicate brucellosis and bovine tuberculosis by assisting the pastoral industry. 

 Mr Sinclair; The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication program in the Northern Territory may be in jeopardy if the depressed state of the pastoral industry continues much longer. Properties which commenced test and slaughter before the slump and had improved fencing, watering and yarding facilities, will be able to continue to eradicate these diseases effectively in 1977. While one of the major pastoral companies in the Top End is to enter the scheme to eradicate tuberculosis this year, generally small resident owner properties with limited cattle handling facilities, fencing and finance will be unable to enter the scheme until the industry recovers and/or Government assistance is granted. 
The aim of the national brucellosis eradication program is to achieve provisionally free status (less than 0.2 per cent) for Australia by 1984. The Top End of the Territory was declared provisionally free in 1973. The area has just under half the Territory's cattle; only four low prevalence infected properties remain, all of which have active and effective programs. The declaration of the Top End as a free area is well in sight. 
Assistance offered by the Government in the Northern Territory at present is: 
payment of veterinarian supervised station staff for the collection of blood samples for brucellosis determination; 
b) the provision of 75 per cent of net commercial market value for owners of cattle reacting to tests for brucellosis; 
the provision of 50 per cent of net commercial market value for owners of cattle reacting to tests for tuberculosis. 
The assistance offered by the Government in the Northern Territory Brucellosis and Tuberculosis Eradication Campaign benefit only those properties which have current active test and slaughter program. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. The subsidy to assist in the transportation of Northern Territory beef to interstate markets and to Northern Territory abattoirs has been discontinued as from 31 December 1976. In view of the continuing poor economic conditions of the Northern Territory pastoral industry, the fact that it is not economic to transport beef, in some circumstances, to market and the fact that because the natural increase of beef numbers is far outstripping annual turnoff, the cattle population has increased by some 680 000 head since 1972, will the Government give consideration to the reintroduction of the freight subsidy for Northern Territory beef? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources whether he is aware that currently there are 45 questions on notice, concerned directly with Australia's energy resources, alternatives and policy, from  Senator Keeffe  to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. Is the Minister aware that there are 17 questions on notice for the Minister for Science from  Senator Keeffe,  several of these questions being almost identical to some of those on notice for the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources? Does the Minister find that the manpower resources of his Department are being tied up answering these questions? Is the Minister aware that the assistant to  Senator Keeffe, Mr Jonathan  West, is a postgraduate student, part-time, at the James Cook University and is currently working on a thesis concerned directly with the need for and aims of a national energy policy for Australia? Is the Minister aware that his Department may be being used as a primary source of information for  Mr West  's thesis? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. What is the Government's attitude to building a levee bank to the north of the township of Katherine, Northern Territory, to protect the town from flooding by the Katherine River? What is the estimated cost and feasibility of the project, bearing in mind the cost of flood damage to the town, its community and industrial and residential development and the fact that more land in the town would be usable than is now considered possible? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
1 ) Are all aircraft arriving in Alice Springs from overseas examined by customs officers who are situated in Alice 
Springs and does such examination include personnel and freight. 
Does this inspection and surveillance include those aircraft that supply the Joint Defence Facility at Pine Gap, Alice Springs. 
Does the Joint Defence Facility at Pine Gap employ both American and Australian citizens. 
Does Pine Gap come under the jurisdiction of the Australian Government through the Minister for Defence. 
Are those Australian personnel who are in charge of the base responsible for controlling entry to the base of both American and Australian personnel. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1 977: 
1 ) What is the Government's attitude to building a levee bank to the north of Katherine to protect the town from flooding. 
What is the estimated cost and feasibility of the project, bearing in mind the cost of flood damage to the town, its community, industrial development, etc., and the fact that more land in the town would be usable than is now considered possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
1 ) What plans have been initiated to ensure, when the Darwin Reconstruction Commission is wound up this year, that all personnel employed by the Commission will be reestablished in suitable positions and conditions commensurate with those existing in the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. 
If an employee is redundant and cannot be assimilated into the Northern Territory area and is obliged to return to the southern States, will he receive a travel allowance to cover expenses for the family, furniture, personal goods, etc. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 May: 
1 ) Has a full study been made of the results of the 1976 Census, particularly with regard to internal migration statistics. 
If a full review ofthe statistics from the 1976 Census has not been carried out, what is the Government's intentions with regard to the extracting of this information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) Has the Minister received applications from Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory requesting that under the Aboriginal land rights legislation other Land Councils be formed in their respective areas. If so, how many applications have been received: from what areas of the Northern Territory. 
What is the Government's attitude to these applications. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Have Northern and Central Land Councils in the Northern Territory been asked to nominate members of the Land Trusts to hold title to Aboriginal traditional land. If so, is it the intention of the Government to accept other nominations from traditional owners that may be forwarded other than through the Land Councils. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
In view of the many pensioners living in isolated areas of Australia where zone allowances apply, will the Government consider also giving pensioners the benefit of zone allowances to compensate for their living in areas where the cost of living is generally much higher. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
1 ) What is the present situation concerning the report entitled 'The Introduction of a Citizen's Band radio service to Australia ' which was tabled and public comment invited. 
Has the Government formulated a policy; if so, and when is it anticipated that legislation will be introduced to legislate Citizen's Band radio. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
Further to Question No. 406 asked by  Senator Kilgariff  on 29 March regarding the extension of the microwave length from Tennant Creek to Alice Springs, will this facility be available to small settlements between the two points, e.g., Wauchope, Barrow Creek, Ti-Tree, Aileron, etc., and will larger settlements such as the Aboriginal settlement of Warrabri have not only subscriber trunk dialling services, but also television. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, on 1 June 1977: 
With reference to the question asked by  Senator Kilgariff  on 19 August 1976, relating to the future of Radio Australia situated at Cox Peninsula which was practically destroyed by Cyclone Tracy and the answer that a detailed report on Radio Australia would be available later in the month, since it is now some 8 months since this advice, is the report now available. 
What is the future of Radio Australia at Cox Peninsula. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) What number of land claims have been made to date under the Northern Territory Aboriginal Land Rights legislation. 
Where are the land claims and what persons or clans have made the applications. 
) What area of land does each claim cover. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: (Question No. 1080) 
1  ) How many organisations in Australia receive funds to finance their activities in the Aboriginal field. 
What is the name and location of each organisation and what amounts has each organisation received in each of the past three years. 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. The Northern Territory  News  of 10 August 1977 reported  Mr John  Isaacs, the Australian Labor Party leader in the Northern Territory, as saying that he had been advised from an impeccable source that extra revenue of some $ 1 5m was to be raised on top of normal internal revenue in the Northern Territory budget. The Australian Broadcasting Commission in the Northern Territory said today that the figure would be $2 1 m. In view of the fact that Budget documents give no indication that these allegations can be substantiated and that they would appear to be nothing more than a red herring to worry and disconcert the Northern Territory community, will the Minister comment on these statements? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 24  May  1977: 
In view of the arrangement for Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory, who wish to make claims under the Aboriginal land rights legislation, to have access to funds, legal assistance, etc., will the Attorney-General also make funds available to those other people and organisations in the Northern Territory who require legal assistance in putting their submissions to the Land Rights Commissioner. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 3 June 1977: 
1 ) What investigations have been carried out in Australia to examine the possibility of setting up a coal-based motor spirit plant in Australia. 
If a study has been carried out and it has proved feasible, what would the capital outlay be and what effect could it have in providing fuel in future years in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 31 May 1977: 
What is the Government's attitude to mental hospitals, in view of the Labor Party's new health plan which proposes to abolish mental institutions. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of the 'Nodding Ducks' trial at Loch Ness for tapping wave power as a source of energy; if so, is there to be research on the implementation of the scheme in Australia, with particular reference to the Northern Territory. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to a Press statement from the  Chairman  of the Australian Cattlemen's 
Council in which he expresses regret that no provision was made in the Budget for a grant to enable beef carcass classification to commence as a first step in marketing reform of the cattle industry. Can the Minister advise whether it is the Government's intention to proceed with carcass classification? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Having in mind the increasing necessity for improved surveillance of our northern coast, is it the Government's intention to give high priority to providing and /or upgrading naval facilities and equipment in northern areas? As an example I mention Darwin Harbour. Has the Government given consideration to the reforming of the Royal Australian Air Force Construction Squadron to permit existing airstrips to be maintained at a reasonable operational level, to construct new airstrips where necessary and, at the same time, to provide a pool of highly trained personnel for the construction of future defence projects in the north? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. On the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  Broadband  on 1 8 August, it was alleged by  Mr Neville  Perkins, who was the Australian Labor Party candidate for MacDonnell for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly elections, that there had been large cuts in Government spending for Aboriginal people. 
Is the statement correct? 
I am asking those questions of the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I have my doubts as to whether the honourable senator opposite knows what life is all about. I ask the Minister: What is the total amount of funds which has been allocated by the Government for Aboriginal purposes in the Australian scene in each of the last three financial years? What funds have been allocated by the Government for Aboriginal purposes in the Northern Territory for each of the last three financial years? What funds have been allocated by the Government for the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress, of which  Mr Perkins  is a director, for each of the last three financial years? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 4 May 1977: 
Is it the Government's intention to continue to make funds available for a freight assistance subsidy on the movement of cattle to abattoirs, rail-heads, markets et cetera, in the Northern Territory in view of the depressed situation in primary industry and the fact that the natural increase in cattle population means that cattle numbers in many areas will be far in excess of the safe cattle carrying capacity of the country. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Having in mind the fact that the Government recognised the necessity of providing improved radio communications for the people of the outback and for defence purposes, and so had planned to upgrade radio transmitter facilities in the Northern Territory by procuring and setting up two short wave transmitters at Cox Peninsula, can the Minister advise whether Telecom Australia has decided that these transmitters will not be provided for the people of the Territory and the outback but will be redirected to Shepparton, where, whilst they may be of some advantage in the more highly populated areas of Australia, they will be of little advantage to the people of the outback and the Northern Territory? If this is the case, does it mean that the people of the north, while paying taxes like any other Australian citizen, are to be treated by Telecom as second priority citizens? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, 1 present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
1 ) Military Area at Randwick, New South Wales; 
Royal Australian Air Force Base Edinburgh, South Australia; 
Animal Quarantine Station at Wallgrove, New South Wales. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. This morning a delegation of federal parliamentarians from the House of Representatives and the Senate delivered to the Ambassador for Indonesia a protest note signed by 80 members of Parliament from the Liberal-National Country Party and the Labor Party. The note was to protest against the refusal to date of the Government of the Republic of Indonesia to indicate whether or not visas will be issued to permit a delegation of members of the Parliament of Australia to visit East Timor on a fact finding mission. The Ambassador of Indonesia indicated that because Indonesia was now normalising the economic life of Timor permission would not be granted for this delegation at present. In view of the fact that the American Congress, the Australian media and officials of the Department of Foreign Affairs were permitted by Indonesia to visit Timor recently, will the Australian Government take the matter up with the Indonesian Government in Jakarta for visas to be issued at the earliest possible time so that elected members of Parliament, who represent many thousands of Australians interested in the present circumstances of Timor, may go on this mission? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Recently there have been several demonstrations in Australian universities which have been marked by apparently increasingly violent incidents. Having in mind that some of these incidents have been directed at the Prime Minister and, indeed, have put him in danger of suffering bodily harm, is it correct to say that not all demonstrators have come from universities or from the universities where the demonstrations took place, but have come from left wing groups which are openly defying law and order in an effort to cause as much chaos as possible within the Australian community? Will the Government make known to the people of Australia the results of investigations that have taken place? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Is he aware of a Press statement issued by the Northern Territory Teachers Federation dated 2 September 1977 regarding the Federation's stand on uranium mining, in which it supports the left wing of the Labor Party in an indefinite moratorium and supports the Trades and Labour Council's present stand? Further, as the Northern Territory Teachers Federation has directed its members not to serve in schools within the uranium area, will the Minister ensure that parents and children will not suffer because of the lack of teachers by employing teachers now in the Northern Territory within the Education Department who are not members of the Northern Territory Teachers Federation? Will he ensure their freedom from harassment, as requested by the Federation itself in pursuing its own militant policies? Will the Minister comment further on the Government's attitude to the Federation's four key issues in its statement, including the point that it believes this decision is a protection of its members against potential health risks involved in living in an area where uranium is mined? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. Is it correct that when in government the Australian Labor Party purchased 41.6 per cent of the Mary Kathleen uranium shares through a governmental instrumentality- the Australian Atomic Energy Commission- using the Australian taxpayers' money, which percentage represented some 30,764,142 shares in the company, and then appointed  Mr Egerton,  a senior trade unionist, to the Mary Kathleen board to supervise the Labor Party's interest in the mining of uranium and the production and sale of uranium oxide- yellowcake? Is it also correct that when the Labor Party was in government it entered into a memorandum of understanding with Peko-EZ to fund 72  Vi  per cent of the Ranger development in return for 50 per cent of Ranger's production of yellowcake? If this is the case, following this commitment of the taxpayers' money to uranium development, is not the action of the Labor Party completely inexplicable in calling for a moratorium for an indefinite period, which would mean the leaving of all Australian uranium in the ground, after having encouraged production and milling and arranged for the sale of uranium overseas? Finally, what are the people of Australia to think when they see left wing Labor endeavouring - 
. . . to sabotage the previous efforts of the Labor Party when other countries of the same political philosophies - 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and perhaps in part has reference to the responsibilities of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Reflecting on the unemployment figures as at 2 September, released by the Commonwealth Employment Service, which indicated that 9.76 per cent of the work force in the Northern Territory was unemployed, I ask whether the Minister can advise whether it is correct to assume that one person in every three unemployed is an Aboriginal person? Would the greater number of these unemployed Aboriginal people be traditional people from isolated areas, et cetera? Is it the intention of the Government in the future actively to increase funds for work projects rather than pay unemployment benefits or 'sit down money' as the Aborigines refer to it to enable the people to work within their communities on necessary projects rather than live on unemployment benefits? Finally, as it is a matter of concern that the economic reality of the situation in assessing overall unemployment in the Northern Territory is achieved, why is it that Aboriginal people in isolated settlements in the north of South Australia are included in the unemployment figures for the Northern Territory? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
In view of the Government's stated aim to encourage and boost mineral exploration and mining development, what assistance does the Government give to small Australian mineral exploration companies by way of subsidies, taxation relief and other incentives. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. The Government recently has indicated that it is its intention to authorise the construction of a closed town in the uranium province within the area of the proposed national park. As there is a growing concern by a large number of people in the Northern Territory that the proliferation of the closed town concept in the Northern Territory should not be continued, is the Government prepared to review this policy to enable free movement of the people in the Northern Territory, particularly in this area, because of the proximity of the national park? Is it the intention of the Government to retain the closed town concept permanently or, together with the town of Nhulunbuy, open these towns eventually to enable them to become normal towns within the Northern Territory community? 
I present the following petition from 403 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth that: 
The Postal and Telecommunications Department have failed in their duty to adequately provide for the Citizen Band Radio Service. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should instruct the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to meet our following requests: 
Request for return of all equipment confiscated in Darwin on 28 January 1977 from CB operators maintaining order on the frequence spectrum. 
Request for immunity from prosecution until licences are granted. 
Request that club call-signs be made official. 
Request for the reason why specifications were not made public at the same time as they were given to the manufacturers. 
Request for an explanation of the penalties in using the 27MHz band after 1982. 
Request for the reason why CB operators have to pay $20 licence fee per set and the amateur operators only pay $ 1 2 licence for any number of sets. 
Request for the approved method of obtaining the extra allowable frequencies in the 27MHz band. 
Request for the Australian equivalent of the appropriate FCC rules applicable and that they should be printed and made available to the general public. 
Request that the 32 kilometre limit be lifted to the Australian geographical limits. 
Request that regulations be passed that all CB communications equipment which is approved, be branded by the manufacturers as ' P &amp; T approved '. 
1. Request to know if section 6 of the Wireless Telegraphy Act is still in force. 
Request that third party messages be allowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 Mr President, as this petition exceeds 250 words in length I do not propose to ask that it be read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. On  AM  yesterday- 19 September-  Mr Chris  Hurford, the Australian Labor Party's spokesman on economic affairs claimed that the calculation of the present rate of inflation at 9.2 per cent distorts the fact that the rate of inflation is upward at the present time and also it is just completely misrepresenting the situation to suggest that the first aim of the Government, namely, to reduce inflation, has been successfully tackled. In view of the fact that it appears that the rate of inflation has been almost halved in less than two years, I ask: What is the present situation in regard to the rate of inflation as seen by the Government? 
-I address my question to the Minister for Education. The fact that the Minister is opening a further stage in the development of the Kormilda Aboriginal College in Darwin this coming weekend and the fact that the Ti Tree school in the Northern Territory is to be used as an Aboriginal teachers training college indicate a growing awareness of the necessity for an expanded program of Aboriginal education. However, taking into consideration the number of new schools constructed for Aborigines, the Church mission schools taken over by government and the Northern Territory urban schools now considered as Aboriginal schools, is the Government giving urgent attention to increasing the number of Aboriginal teachers for these schools? Will the Government actively continue to encourage Aboriginals to become teachers' aides to assist European teachers with the ultimate aim of replacing many European teachers by Aboriginal teachers, particularly in the isolated areas of the Northern Territory? Having in mind the national Aboriginal employment policies being developed by the Government and having due regard to possible staff ceilings within the Department of Education, will the Government ensure that the soul destroying concept of unemployment benefitssit down money' as it is recognised by Aboriginal people- is removed by giving impetus to the training of Aboriginal teachers? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. Is it true that the Australian Territories Accreditation Committee for Advanced Education has recommended the accreditation of a four-year course in teacher education to be offered at the Darwin Community College? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether he has accepted the Committee's recommendation and, if he has, what the benefits will be to the people of Darwin and the Northern Territory? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. The  Canberra Times  of today- Wednesday, 5 October- has reported on its front page under the heading 'Aborigines Protest at Mine Start' that the Ranger uranium mining project in the Northern Territory plans to have the construction of a dam, road works, et cetera, commenced shortly and before the wet season begins. It is reported that traditional Aboriginal land owners of the Alligator River region have protested, through the Northern Land Council, to the Prime Minister that there has been no consultation and that no agreement has been made nor any national park plan initiated, ls the report correct? If so, what action is being taken to bring about better communication and fewer misunderstandings? Will the Government consider the appointment of a person on the spot who will be responsible for close liaison and understanding between government, the uranium miners and the Aboriginal people? 
Tonight the Senate is debating the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Amendment Bill 1 977. Of course, it will be very difficult for people within the Senate chamber and the people of Australia to recognise that this is a debate on coal export duty. Of course, talking about coal, as I interjected a little while ago, has something to do with being black and dirty. Let me explain that. I think members of parliament, whether they be members of the Senate or any other parliamentary body in Australia, have the right to enter the parliament to do and say things for the good of the country. But I do not think that gives senators the privilege of saying things inside the Senate chamber against the good name of people outside the chamber. I say that that is an abuse of a privilege. 
Despite the fact that I have been in the Senate for only about two years-sometimes I wonder when I listen to debates like the debate tonight whether I should be proud of being a senator- I was a member of another legislature for some 1 6 years. There it is recognised that privilege means that members speak on behalf of the country and speak for the good of the country. But members do not abuse that privilege. I suggest that tonight  Senator Walsh,  m his wild meanderings- his attacks on people- should have had the courage not to say the things he said in the Senate chamber but to go outside the chamber to say them. 
The honourable senator says to me, 'Do not be silly. You do not know what this Parliament is for'. I have indicated that members should use the right of privilege for the good of the country. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator  DrakeBrockman) Order! There is no substance in the point of order. If the honourable senator wants to make a personal explanation he may do so at a later stage. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I wish to explain the situation. If I used the honourable senator's name, I did it unintentionally. It was my thought that I named  Senator Walsh  from Western Australia. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I am explaining the position. I certainly did not imply anything against  Senator Colston.  But I more than implied something against  Senator Walsh.  I said that  Senator Walsh  from Western Australia abused the privilege that he should enjoy in this House. The next point I wish to make relates to black people. Very briefly, I wish to touch on the situation of Aboriginals. I am doing so briefly because I intend to speak on the subject tomorrow. Whilst I do not include  Senator Cavanagh  in this criticism-I knew him as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs when I was in the Northern Territory- I think that it is very wrong - 
He has never referred to Aborigines as black and while we had differences of opinion whilst he was Minister with the responsibility for Aboriginal affairs, I still have respect for his judgment. I am not criticising him. But what I am saying is that other honourable senators tonight have drawn various inferences regarding the black people. Perhaps I should call them the Aboriginal people if we are not going to use the word 'black'. The day the Aboriginal people are properly recognised in Australia will be the day when senators do not use and abuse them for political purposes. I say that it is about time in the Senate and in other parliaments of Australia that parliamentarians did not use the Aboriginal people and abuse them for political benefit. This is what is happening today. I resent this for one reason. I come from the Northern Territory. I represent black people and white people. I hope that the future of the Northern Territory will be such that we will be able to join in a coexistence and enjoy each other's company. But I am afraid this will be very difficult to achieve when I see the way in which Aborigines are used within this chamber. 
I wish to go further on this matter. I interjected when  Senator McLaren  was speaking earlier in the evening. He was carrying on in his usual form. In this case he was talking about the Northern Territory and why the north Australia railway line was closed. He said that this line closed because of the Liberal-National Country Party Government. Let us go back a little further than that. Let us go back to the early 1970s when the people of the outback were recognised not only as pioneers but also as people developing the country- the north. The Government of that day, because of the high costs that were developing in the area, brought in a fuel equalisation scheme which meant that the people of the outback, no matter where they were, paid not more than 3c to 4c a gallon above the capital city price for their petrol. But with the change of government in 1972,  Dr Coombs  was asked by the Leader of the Labor Government,  Mr Whitlam,  to look into means of saving money within Australia.  Dr Coombs,  in many instances, looked to the people of the outback. What did happen? First of all, the people along the Stuart Highway in the Northern Territory lost their freight assistance, little as it was. When the people who lived in isolated areas were receiving this freight assistance they paid no more for freight than did the people in Alice Springs. But this was lost. Worse than that, what happened then was that the 
Labor Government abolished the fuel equalisation scheme. 

 - Senator Mulvihill, this will come. The Coombs recommendation which the Labor Government picked up brought chaos. It abolished the fuel equalisation scheme and so the cost of fuel escalated rapidly in the Northern Territory. The first result was that the cost of the diesel fuel for the north Australia railway line increased to such an extent that the Railways Commission reviewed its cost and freight rates went up. The iron ore company at Frances Creek was the railway's main customer. It was using the railway line from Frances Creek and Pine Creek to Darwin. The freight rates increased so much that it was uneconomic for the company and it went out of business. 
-The private enterprise mining company was put out of business at Frances Creek and that meant that the business of the main client of the north Australia railway was lost. What happened then was that  Mr Jones,  the Labor Minister in charge of transport in that particular area, asked for a review of the whole situation. It is a fact that the recommendation that came out of that review was that because the Labor Government had abolished the fuel equalisation scheme- it had pushed up costs to all the people of the Northern Territory, to the north Australia railways, to the company at Frances Creek and had put the company out of business- the line should close, and so it was closed. Let it be said no more that this was the action of the present Government. This was the action of the Labor Government which rejected the people of the outback. The Labor Government did that on many occasions, yet here honourable senators opposite champion the people of the outback. What do they care about the people of the outback? It has been proved that the Labor Government increased the costs of the people of the outback and that it had no regard for those people because it supported the multitude that lived on the eastern coast where the votes were. So far as the Labor Party is concerned, the people is the Northern Territory do not exist. 
I thank  Senator Georges.  On 23 March I tabled the Fortieth General Report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. Honourable senators will know that six references were made to the Committee during 1976, including one reference which was subsequently rescinded. The Committee met on 13 occasions in 1976. These meetings were held to take evidence at public hearings, to carry out inspections and to undertake private deliberations. Meetings took place in Canberra on nine occasions, in Sydney on three occasions and in Melbourne on one occasion. 
The various projects that were examined by the Committee are dealt with in Appendix A and Appendix B of the report. They included the development of a Navy supply centre and Army workshop facility at the defence establishment at Zetland in New South Wales; sleeping accommodation for the Women's Royal Australian Army Corps at Puckapunyal in Victoria; the consolidation into Bankstown of the Bankstown and Lidcombe government aircraft plants; modernisation of facilities, stage 2, H.M.A. Naval Dockyard at Williamstown in Victoria, the primary school at Katherine South in the Northern Territory; the Supreme Court at Alice Springs in the Northern Territory; the central hospital services complex, stage 1, at Canberra in the ACT; the sewerage system at Katherine in the Northern Territory; the road to East Alligator River area in the Northern Territory and so on. 
The report was also tabled in another place by  Mr Kelly,  the  Chairman  of the Committee. The report indicated that when reviewing the summary there was a noticeable time gap between the Department of Construction 's estimated date for the completion of the work and the date the work was actually completed. The average delay was nearly two years and was applicable to works both in the Northern Territory and elsewhere. It would be useful to have some response from the Government on the cause of these delays. It will also be noted that there has been an escalation in costs. However, as the note at the end of the summary points out, the Department of Construction has made no provision for the escalation of building costs, in accordance with Treasury policy. 
The situation as outlined in this report is that the Public Works Committee was concerned that the average delay was some two years. During that two years, because of inflation and so on, there was a tremendous escalation of costs. The Committee was concerned that when taking evidence in the first place the cost of a project was said to be some $5m, for instance, but by the time it was actually completed the cost could have escalated to some $10m or $15m, as occurred in many instances. It was felt that a false impression was created in that while it was indicated that a project was going to cost $Sm no effort was made to anticipate what the cost of the project would be in one or two years' time. That point has been pursued by the Public Works Committee and I expect that it will be further debated next week when the reports of the various Estimates Committees are tabled. 
At the time this report was tabled in the House of Representatives and the criticism made by the  Chairman,  the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  answered the criticism on the two-year delay and indicated that there were many reasons why there should be an escalation in costs, one of which of course is inflation, and why there should be an extension of time. In many cases the extension of time has been due to the fact that the client department had made additions and amendments to the actual plan. In addition, during the relevant periods there had been strikes, shortages of material and so on. I believe that the reasons given by the Minister for Construction were sufficient to answer the criticism contained in the report. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Possibly, part of the question should be directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the Victorian power strike and ask the Minister whether he is m a position to indicate the number of people who are now unemployed because of the strike. What number of people have been paid unemployment benefits? What number of people unemployed through the strike action are ineligible to obtain unemployment benefits? What is the estimated cost of the strike to date to Australia and its people? Is it correct, as national newspapers have stated, that smaller employers within private enterprise are going bankrupt because of the backlash of the strike? 
 I stand to support the 1977-78 Budget. Before I commence my remarks on it, I would like to answer one or two comments of  Senator Primmer.  I do not think that he put forward very convincingly the two points that I intend to discuss briefly- the excess demands on awards, and the Timor situation. I think we all realise these days that money does not grow on trees. If unions these days come forward with excess demands, as was instanced by the award that was read by  Senator Missen,  Australia will get deeper and deeper into the mire. 
I understand it. I have seen it myself. The unions have to keep their feet on the ground if they want to get anywhere. The next point is the Timor affair. I realise that  Senator Primmer  has quite a lot of emotion about this matter. I know that he believes in what he says. If he speaks on behalf of the Labor Party which outlined at the Perth conference what it had decided it would do when it came into government again to protect the Timorese, I ask him to go back just a few years to see how the Labor Party's attitude stands up now to its attitude when in government. Like  Senator Primmer  I have very strong feelings about the matter. I suggest that he and anyone else in the Labor Parry does not fly the kite as high as it was suggested earlier. 
I take honourable senators opposite back to the time when their Party was in government and when Timor was invaded. We know full well the charge against their leader,  Mr Gough  Whitlam, which has never been refuted, that he knew that Timor was to be invaded. It was repeated in the media and in the Press that he said then: 'If you have to invade then make it quick'. The charge has never been refuted. The suggestion of course is that while the Timor people were battered and bruised first through a type of civil war and then by an invasion, Australia took absolutely no action. Australia's inaction in those days was a disgrace. If the government of the day had taken some strong action I am sure that many more Timorese people would be alive today. Since then the situation has deteriorated. Of course that action was taken while we looked the other way. It is most difficult now to remedy the situation. As I have said before in this place, if action had been taken in those days and if a strong stand had been made as the Timorese expected of us, the invasion, I believe, would not have taken place. The bloodshed which started then and which I believe is still continuing would not have come about. 1 believe that the beginning of this debate was marred to some degree by the irresponsible point taking in regard to Standing Order 406 which states that a senator will not read his speech. It is rather ludicrous for the Senate to continue in the way it did at the beginning of this debate. There was a tit for tat situation. I believe that the sigificance of the debate and the problems that we are experiencing today were belittled by this action. Let us do something one way or the other. A little while ago we had a debate on whether honourable senators should be allowed to read their speeches. For mine, if a motion is passed saying that honourable senators can read speeches then let us read speeches. If a motion is passed that we will not read speeches and then if half the members of the Senate keep on reading their speeches and others take points of order to disrupt a person who may not be reading his speech, I think the whole thing is senseless. If this matter came to a vote again, in order to bring some sense into the situation, I would be prepared to vote for a change in Standing Orders so that senators may read their speeches. Before I voted for the motion that senators could not read their speeches. I think this is ludicrous; in fact I think it is childish for people to continue to take points of order in this matter. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  I do not uphold the point of order. I do not accept what  Senator Kilgariff  said as a reflection on the Chair. I would not take it as such. I also support the view that has been alluded to by  Senator Withers.  During the Budget debate one ranges over a fairly wide field. I suggest that if  Senator Kilgariff  feels strongly about a particular matter, this is the occasion on which to express that point of view. For those reasons I do not uphold the point of order. 
-It was not meant to be a reflection upon the Chair,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I was merely discussing a point that I do not think I should continue to discuss. The subject of the discussion at this time is the 1977-78 Budget. I believe that in many instances the honourable senators who have preceded me in the debate have put forward very good arguments in support of the Budget. I refer in particular to the support given to it by  Senator Tehan,  who gave a very good explanation of the intentions of the Budget. It has been said that there has been criticism of the Budget in the media. Perhaps we should go back to before the introduction of the Budget and the suggestions being made in the media then by people that we could expect a horror Budget. I do not believe that this Budget could be described as a horror Budget. 
This Budget has been presented to the Parliament at a time of great economic stress. The inflation rate has been brought down from over 17 per cent to just over 9 per cent. It is true to say that if Australia is to get on its feet economically it has first to bring down its inflation rate even further. The inflation rate is the first battle to overcome. Perhaps we can learn something from an examination of the economic troubles that Britain has had over the last few years and of what has happened there. I spent a few weeks in Britain some two or three years ago. I was there when Britain was in economic chaos. Britain was not in a recession; it was practically in a depression. It looked as if the country was finished. Day by day and hour by hour wildcat strikes were occurring. The whole country was split apart. I had it in mind that if Australia ever had to go through the stresses and strains that Britain was going through in those days Australia would be in a chaotic situation and very close to a depression. 
Only about a week ago the Chancellor of the Exchequer in Britain said that the trials that Britain had gone through and was now coming out of were at least equal to those experienced during the Battle of Britain. I would say that that was very true. In the Battle of Britain that country was fighting for its life against the threat of German invasion. More recently Britain was going through an equally severe economic battle against the left wing forces that were endeavouring to destroy it and bring about a chaotic situation. That sort of situation exists in Australia today. I believe that too little is said about this situation. The left wing forces in this country have, like a parasite, entwined themselves with some of the unions. I have said before that I believe in having a trade union movement. I think it is a necessary thing. I think the trade union movement has been a very good thing for Australia. It has stood and spoken for the right of the worker. That to my mind, is essential. But something has happened to the trade union movement over the last few years. The trade union movement that we knew a few years ago- in the days of the great giants of the labour movement- has disappeared to quite an extent. It has done so because of the activities of the left wing forces- the socialists- who wish to bring Australia's financial situation into a chaotic state and to reform the Australian life style as we know it to accord with that of a socialist state. The battles that the trade unions have ahead of them are immense because this parasite is entwined around the roots of the trade union movement. 
One has only to look at the article entitled Anatomy of a Disaster' in the  Weekend Australian  of 8 and 9 October and to consider the names of the people who are now at the helm of a lot of the industrial trouble in Victoria to get a very clear appreciation of the problems confronting the trade union movement. Let us look at the names and the background of the people who are at the helm of a lot of the present industrial trouble in Victoria. John Halfpenny is one of them. He is a member of the Communist Party's industrial committee and a key figure in the crippling Victorian power workers' dispute. Another is Elliot V. Elliott, who is a founding member of the pro-Moscow Socialist Party of Australia, which split from the Communist Party of Australia in the 1960s. Another is  Mr Faure,  who is a militant member of the socialist left faction of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party. Another is  Mr Gallagher,  who is a member of the pro-Peking Communist Party of AustraliaMarxistLeninist. Yet another is  Mr Crawford,  who is a key member of the socialist left faction of the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party, of which he was once  President.  There before the people of Australia are the names of the ones who are endeavouring to bring Australia to financial disaster- the left wing and communist forces. 
It surprises me that there is not a bigger move within the trade union movement to dispose of those people. Let us look at the situation brought about by the Victorian industrial dispute. Five hundred thousand people are unemployed; yet the left wing forces say that it is a government problem, that government is bringing about chaos through its mismanagement and that government is responsible for the unemployment. These wildcat strikes are hitting right at the roots of the family unit. The workers involved in this dispute are looking for a rise of $40 or $30 a week. They may settle for a rise of $20 a week. The average unionist- one of the 500,000 people we are talking about- has been out of work for several weeks and may not work for a while yet. All of that is over an extra $20 a week. What will happen if he goes back to work in the next few days or next few weeks and he gets an extra $20 a week less tax? How much will he have lost and how long will it take him to recover his losses? I would say that the family of such a trade unionist is in a destitute situation and is looking for money to buy a meal. This is all because of the action that has been taken by those half a dozen people at the head of the trade union movement- these communist and left wing forces- supposedly for the good of the trade union movement. If Australia is to get on its feet again it will require more than government to find the answer. Australia will have to settle down and the trade union movement will have to throw out these people and operate as part of the team. 
I will be talking about the Northern Territory very soon. The fact of the matter is that I have knocked around Australia and I suggest that I would know more about 
Australia than would  Senator Georges.  I know more than  Senator Georges  because I have worked outside of Parliament for almost all of my life and I have done so both as an employee and an employer. The honourable senator cannot teach me a thing about the financial and economic situation in Australia. It surprises me that he should take such strong objection to my saying that these left wing forces are endeavouring intentionally to bring Australia's financial situation into chaos out of which will arise a socialist state. See then what people think of Australialucky Australia, the land of milk and honey, as they describe it now. It is being lost rapidly. It will go right down and we will never see it again. 
We will not be ruined. Australia, like England, has come through wars. England is recovering now, and we will too. We need team work so that the people will settle down and become productive. Compare what the Government has done during the last few years with the actions taken in 1973 when Australia was thrown out of a quiet back water of conservative inflationary growth. By that I mean that prior to 1973 the growth rate was between  2Vi  per cent and 3 per cent. Under a Labor Government money was thrown into the ring without regard to the consequences. There was intense competition for goods, services and labour. Like a bushfire, wages increased. Not only did wages increase but also prices, the cost of all items increased rapidly. There was rapid movement upward. Week by week the cost of an article would move upwards. Wages increased. What did it mean to the worker to get $5 or $ 10 a week more under the Labor Government and its taxation scale and standards? He paid more and more taxes as his wage went up. He received less and less of the rises in his pocket. He was chasing the price of goods and at the same time getting an increase in wages that meant absolutely nothing to him. The Government was receiving higher revenue. What did that mean to it? As I have said, it just threw money into the ring without due regard to what the country could stand. It increased the Public Service. The Public Service competed on the labour market. This created an inflationary strain. One well remembers that only two or three years ago Australia was indeed in a chaotic situation. 
There were side effects. The people wanted to get rich quickly. This is one of the problems that has beset young people of today. Young apprentices saw the means of getting rich. They left their apprenticeship positions and went into the labour market where they got higher wages. They could have been trained personnel by now. Today there is a crying need for trained people, but they are not available. The people who looked for higher paying jobs are now unemployed. Today the job vacancies are for personnel with higher skills. 
We hear much about the problems of the young unemployed. They have my complete sympathy. Why are they unemployed? It is because wages have been forced up so much in the last three years that the employer will not employ the school leaver because of his lack of experience and the fact that he has to be paid such a high salary. So, what happens? In comes the person who has another job or in comes the woman who does not need a job. I am not talking about the family person who needs a second position to bring more money into the family to keep it going. I am talking about the woman who wants something to do because she has idle time. She does not really need a job but because of her experience she gets a job very easily in the industrial sphere of our country. It is because of this that many young people who should be working today are finding that there are no opportunities for them. This can be rectified. We know damn well that the matter can be rectified, but at present all we are prepared to do is scream about the high percentage of unemployed and so on. 
It can be rectified as the Government is endeavouring to do now. First, because of the high wages that are being demanded for a person as soon as he leaves school, a subsidy scheme has been introduced. I suggest that under this subsidy the employer will then take into his workshop, into his company, into his employ, the young people so that they will get work experience. Gradually the subsidy will decrease as their skill increases. We still have the problem of the person within industry who insists on having a second job. Honourable senators opposite know of them and I know of them. We know darn well that there are people, the second wage earners in families, who could well be filling jobs. 
As I have said we see ourselves in a rather strange situation. I refer briefly to the  Australian  of 3 1 August. It gives a very good example of where we are in industry today. It contains an excellent article entitled 'When being best is still not enough'. It talks of  Mr Rod  Hartley, who is the Director of the Australian Cotton Textiles 
Industries Ltd, better known as Actil. I quote very briefly that article. It states: 
What do you do when you run a highly efficient cotton spinning and weaving factory, market your product properly, achieve all the optimum targets, employ 860 people, and still find that Australian wage rates fundamentally affect your competitiveness. 
Our company has done everything the Government says it ought to do, and yet we still can't compete with imports from Asia because the cost of labor in Australia is greater than any other country in the world I know, with the possible exception of Sweden', he says. 
Further, Australian labor is not as productive as our overseas competitors ' is. 
That is why we have re-equipped to the extent of an $1 1 million investment in plant. Our labor content is much below the average for the industry here, or in other parts of the world. 
And so we've been able to get greater efficiency from the labor we do employ. 
If you take the corner-stone of our operation, which is weaving, our absolute weaving department efficiency is 95 per cent- which can be compared with 93 to 95 per cent with the most advanced American companies, 85 per cent in Hong Kong, and somewhere around 80 per cent in Taiwan and Korea. 
But the thing is, there's nothing we can do to bring down labor costs- the labor costs of our competitor countries, which already have 75 per cent of the market here, are between a fifth and a tenth of what ours are. 
And there's nothing more that can be done, because we're in Australia. 
And so the question is simply this: Should we be protected against that big disparity in labor costs, since we have done everything positive to minimise the difference and the disparity? Actil has done everything- but the dilemma remains, with us and with the IAC. 
Which brings us to the present-where do we go now?' 
Rod Hartley says he doesn't have a solution to the problem he is posing. 
I supose what's really necessary is that we all take two years without a wage increase, but I can't see that happening within the present Australian political environment. 
The present Government has had trouble enough trying to keep indexation down a mere one per cent. So what chance is there of a freeze? 
And yet that's what happened in Britain and it's beginning to work- I mean, I Ve lived through the so-called British disease, but with respect I see far stronger signs of it here than I ever saw in Manchester, and I think that because of it Australia is in for two or three years of very hard times. ' 
What is being said is that Australia has outpriced itself in manufacturing, rnining and other Australian products. These days the Australian market cannot compete with overseas markets. Unless we can achieve parity with costs in overseas countries, I suggest that we will experience extreme economic difficulties. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said two years ago when he took over the job of endeavouring to improve Australia's economy that it may take three years. I suggest that, unless we can peg wages and prices, this inflationary spiral will continue. Australia will become an economic mess. It is not only the Government that has to put its weight to the wheel. I suggest that, if there are any honest workers or any honest trade unionists who want to assist in helping Australia out of this chaotic situation- I am referring also to the trade union leaders, particularly those five communists who are out to destroy Australia- they should put their weight to the wheel. Then we would all be much better off. 
I turn now to deal as an honourable senator suggested earlier I should with the Northern Territory. I had every intention of speaking about the Northern Territory. The year 1978 will be a milestone in the progress and development of the Northern Territory. It is a milestone in constitutional reform. Reform has taken a long time. In 1900, at Federation, the people of the Northern Territory had as much say in the Federal Parliament as did their friends from the States. But in 1911 through a constitutional change- South Australia gave up the responsibility of the Northern Territory which became the responsibility of the Federal Government- all parliamentary franchise was taken away. It has taken from 1 9 1 1 -it has been a very slow trail over the years -for the Territory to get where it is today. For the first time in a Budget of the Federal Government, one sees that an amount of $50m is allocated for the Northern Territory. It is a one Une budget for the Northern Territory. We see that in the future there will be a continuing transfer of powers from the Federal Government to the Northern Territory. The Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  said: 
It is proposed to establish a separate Government of the Northern Territory from 1 July 1978, with local ministers exercising control over and responsibility for its finance . . . 
It is intended that the progressive transfer of functions commence on 1 July 1978, with many State-type functions being transferred on 1 July 1978 and the whole program being completed on 1 July 1979. 
On that day, the Northern Territory Will have responsible government but not statehood. There will be ties still with the Federal sphere. The Federal Budget is a good one for the Northern Territory, despite the fact that economic restrictions have been placed on the Territory as they have been placed on the States. In the Budget there have been increases in expenditure for health, education and Aboriginal affairs in the Northern Territory. Despite the fact that Australia is going through a difficult economic period- there are many needs that the Northern Territory has- under the present Budget, I believe sufficient allocation has been made to ensure that the Territory continues to progress. 
I turn now to Aboriginal affairs. Suggestions have been made in many areas that insufficient money has been allocated for Aboriginal affairs and that the appropriation for Aboriginal affairs has been cut. I suggest that there is no sign of this cut. When scrutinising the appropriation in the Budget for Aboriginal affairs in the Northern Territory one finds that there is an increase practically in every area. Despite this increase in moneys available for Aboriginal affairs in the Northern Territory, there is a continual cry that more and more money must be spent. I suggest that this cry for extra money is, to a considerable degree, a political cry. It is political because, if somebody says that $100m or $150m has been spent on Aboriginal people, that is an achievement. As I have said previously in this place, some people in Australia think that because the Labor Party spent so much money on the Aboriginal people- that amount certainly is being matched today- the allocation of that money in itself is the achievement. That is not the case. I can assure honourable senators that the money that has been spent in many areas for Aboriginal people has been wasted and that the unfortunate Aboriginal people have not received the benefit of this money. That money was skimmed off, first of all, under the housing proposals - 
No. It was skimmed off because there were no controls on the money that was made available. The unfortunate Aboriginal people who thought they were going to get houses found that they did not. This money disappeared. It was frittered away. This fact, of course, came out in the Hay report. If Australia and the Parliament are genuine in their concern for the advancement of the Aboriginal people, I suggest that many things need to be done. First, I compliment the Government on its new policy towards the Aboriginal people, specifically on its national Aboriginal employment policy. That means, of course, that money will be paid by the Government into the Aboriginal settlements and communities instead of the situation that has existed in the past and still exists to some degree- that is, giving the Aboriginal people unemployment benefits which they call 'sit down money'. 'Sit down money' is something that they do not wish to receive. They do not want to receive money to sit down. They want money for their communities, many of which are isolated. 
-It is quite obvious that  Senator O'Byrne  lives on more than goannas. If not, I have never seen anyone so well filled from living on goannas. Whilst the honourable senator is living in a reasonable degree of comfort I suggest that he should give some thought to the people in the outback who are living in very poor circumstances. 
-He might have worked with them, but I am suggesting that there is much more work to be done. I have continually visited the Aboriginal settlements, particularly over the last few weeks, to see what living conditions are like. It is surprising to me that despite a government policy of employment for the Abonginal people and no money dished out in unemployment benefits, that policy is not being carried out. At times I wonder why it is that a government sets down a policy but somewhere along the track it is misinterpreted, and that has been the case with the Abonginal people. However, I commend the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Viner,  because, having ascertained that these situations exist, he has moved very quickly to ensure that Aboriginal people continue to have money paid into their communities. 
One very big problem which is emerging and on which we have spoken at length in this chamber is the problem of unemployed youth. Honourable senators on both sides of the chamber are very concerned about the situation, and much is planned for our young people in regard to retraining, universities, apprenticeships, and subsidies so that they can be taught a trade and find employment. But very huie is said about Aboriginal children in isolated areas, and something has happened there over the last few years. Most of the Aboriginal people are not now living in the way in which they lived years ago, with the result that in many areas the population is increasing quite rapidly. No longer is control of the numbers in the tribe practised by the elders, the traditional owners, the old people of a tribe which lived in a particular area. They imposed a population limit to ensure that there were not too many Aboriginal people endeavouring to live off the land in their nomadic way. But the nomadic life has disappeared and the people are now living in settlements, missions and so on. Their way of life has changed and their population is increasing rapidly. There are more and more Aboriginal children, and the immense problem that I,  Senator Carrick  and others see is that of the young children coming forward with very few jobs available for them. In the Northern Territory they would now number several thousand, but the population of the Territory is such that very little opportunity is available for them. 

 Senator Keeffe and I, as well as other honourable senators, have continued to ask questions about the training of the Aboriginal people and  Senator Carrick  has indicated his intense desire to provide more teachers and teachers' aides. However, that is not happening as much as I would like. It is my understanding that Public Service Board restrictions do not allow the new positions to be created, and I make the criticism that that is completely wrong. An Aboriginal teacher cannot replace a European teacher at the moment. The Aboriginal people have to be trained alongside European teachers and eventually the Aboriginal person will replace the European person. But that cannot be done overnight. New positions must be created in the Department of Health and other government departments to endeavour to absorb the Aboriginal people to some degree. 
The honourable senator has come in a little late. 
-Too soon or too late, it does no matter much one way or the other. I suggest that all the honourable senator does when he comes to the Northern Territory and to the outback is stir things up. If he had an intense desire to see the right thing done by the Aboriginal people he would do something more than just talk. I want to refer now to the situation of the colleges in the Northern Territory, and this occurs also in Queensland, Western Australia and other places. There are now Aboriginal colleges at Dhupuma, Kormilda, Yirara and so on where a large number of Aboriginal children are being trained, and they have every right to be trained. They have no way of going back to their old nomadic life; they have to go forward. But the result will be that in the next few years many Aboriginal children will be without a position - 
That is not quite right. We have not always had the population that exists today. Positions have to be found for those Aboriginal children. They have to be absorbed into our communities. I think it is probably too early for them to be totally absorbed in the eastern States, and so Australia has to be prepared to finance them, to put money into their communities, to ensure that positions will be available for them. If that does not happen, I warn the Senate that we will have large numbers of Aboriginal teenagers roaming around the cities. 
The Labor program for Aboriginal people was a disaster because the Labor Party was patronising. It went around as if it were Father Christmas with a bag of toys. It made promises but a lot of its promises were not fulfilled. The Labor Government gave trucks, cars and that sort of thing which lasted a few weeks but it did nothing for the Aboriginal people. 
I have said before, and it is a pity you come in - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder! You will address the Chair,  Senator Kilgariff. 
Yes,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I was saying before that it is all very well to wave your hands and your flags and say that $ 100m has been spent of Aboriginal people when the benefit has not really come to them. However, I wish to deal briefly with another problem relating to the setting up of national parks by the Federal Government, and I refer specifically to Ayres Rock. Ayres Rock is a very important tourist area. 
That is coming up and Kakadu is also coming up. Perhaps they have the same problem, perhaps not. At the moment I wish to refer to the management of the Ayers Rock-Mount Olga National Park and to the fourth report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. The report suggests that various things should be done to bring the facilities in the park up to a point where they can cater efficiently for people from Australia and overseas who wish to visit the area. Another promise was made when the Commonwealth departments became involved in the Ayers Rock area and we had the dream of the new town, the new settlement. The future of Ayers Rock has floundered along from one interdepartmental committee to another, so much so that the pioneers of the Rock, who went out there many years ago and built various hostels, found themselves m a situation where the Government bought the hostels and other accommodation places and leased them for a period of five to seven years to those people who had pioneered the area while this new town outside the area of the national park was planned and established. Now it appears that this national park, this new town, is nothing more than a dream and it has been suggested that the leases held by these people who built the accommodation at Ayers Rock should be cancelled. How strange it is that there should be this misunderstanding, that these leases should be cancelled and that there should be no future progress at the Rock despite the fact that this new town has not been commenced. One criticism I have of the Budget, as it refers to the Northern Territory, is that despite the fact that there is a tremendous revenue coming in from the Rock from people who pay considerable fees to see it, the health facilities are not improved. If there is to be any empire building as far as Ayers Rock and perhaps Kakadu are concerned, we need a reasonable approach to the whole matter. There is one further point which relates to the people of the outback. 
Kakadu will come in another debate. I refer to the high prices of goods in the outback of Australia and on the north coast. Perhaps some time ago, when the fuel equalisation scheme was in existence and there were some freight subsidies, the people did fare a little better. But with current wages, which are no higher or very little higher than those of the people in the cities, and the fact that goods have to be brought to them in so many different ways, whether it be by truck or by barge, by the time the goods get to these people they are paying enormous prices. There are still people in Australia who, because of the area in which they live, receive subsidies. I believe that although we are talking of only a handfull of people in the outback- when I say a handful, it amounts to only a few thousand people- they should be given due consideration. If they are prepared to 
Eve  out there- indeed, they are still pioneering out there- the rest of Australia should recognise and support them. It was only a few years ago that they were encouraged to go into the outback and the north and to ensure that by developing the north, it would be safeguarded. Having done this, what has happened? The support they received from the Australian people has been taken away. It was not the Country Party which took it away. As I said two or three nights ago, it was the Labor Party which took away the fuel equalisation scheme. It took away the few subsidies that existed. The Labor Party has never considered the people of the north. It has been too busy looking after the large number of votes in the eastern States. 
When I speak in that way I may be generalising. Before I conclude I would like to pay a compliment to a member of the Labor Party. This may surprise some honourable senators. I go back to the employment of Aboriginal people. I go back some three years to what some people considered an experiment but which has now become factual and which is probably an indication of what Aboriginal people can do for themselves. I refer to the Apatula people who live at the Finke. Some three years ago I went to  Senator Cavanagh,  who was then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and suggested that a hotel in the area should be purchased by the Aboriginal people. It was purchased despite the fact that everyone thought it was probably the screwiest idea ever that a hotel should be bought by Aboriginal people. 
This should apply not only to the border store; it should be a policy that in future all licences existing in Aboriginal lands should be taken over and run by the Aboriginal people themselves. At the time the hotel was purchased  This Day Tonight  and  TV News  said that the hotel would become run down and a brothel within six months. Two years later it is a different picture. The relevant balance sheets indicate that expenditure on food and clothing at the store has risen in direct proportion to the decline in spending at the hotel by the Aboriginal population. The Apatula make houses and sell them to various parts of the Territory. There is a 95 per cent record of attendance at work by the 28 Aboriginal people employed in the Finke community. Prior to the purchase of the hotel the men rarely worked more than two days a week. Since the hotel was purchased there has been only one arrest and no serious brawls which required evacuation of the patient by the Royal Flying Doctor Service. Prior to the purchase of the hotel arrests for drunkenness and evacuation of patients as a result of drunken brawls caused by drinking rum and flagon wine were weekly occurrences. The hotel is controlled by a board of management in accordance with guidelines set down by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs at that time. I commend  Senator Cavanagh  for the action he took. It is a precedent for the future of the Northern Territory. The Aboriginal people are coming up. They are beginning to solve their drink problems but they cannot do it entirely by themselves. The time has come for the people of Australia to assist them realistically. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is it a fact that the Federal Government intends to set up a travel and tourist industry advisory council within his Department? If so, what Will be the role of this council? Will members of the council be Commonwealth public servants or will they be drawn from the travel industry? 
-I bring up the report from Estimates Committee E on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1977-78, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report, excluding the appendix, be printed. 
-I direct my queston to the Minister representing the Munster for the Northern Territory. In October 1975 the Bureau of Transport Economics produced a report on the Darwin Harbour situation entitled 'Provision of General Cargo Facilities at the Port of Darwin'. I understand that since then there has been work carried out by the Department of Construction, the Northern Territory Port Authority, the Department of the Northern Territory, et cetera. Could the Minister now advise the present position in regard to the proposed upgrading of the port in Darwin, in regard particularly to Fort Hill Wharf which, following an assessment by engineers of the Northern Territory Port Authority, has been reported as being unsafe. With the transfer of powers to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, is it the intention of the Federal Government to retain responsibility for upgrading and redevelopment of the port, in view of defence requirements and the many other developments taking place in the area? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 3 June 1977: 
How many organisations in Australia receive funds to finance their activities in the Aboriginal field. 
What is the name and location of each organisation and what amounts has each organisation received m each of the past three years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) Did  Mr Neville  Perkins, the Australian Labor Party candidate for MacDonnell in the recent Northern Territory Legislative Assembly elections, state on the Australian Broadcasting Commission  Broadband  program, on 18 August 1977, that there had been large cuts in Government spending for Aboriginal people; if so, is this correct. 
What is the total amount of money allocated by the Government for Aboriginal purposes in each of the last three financial years. 
What money was allocated by the Government for Aboriginal purposes in the Northern Territory for each of the last three financial years. 
What funds have been allocated by the Government to the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress, of which  Mr Perkins  is a director, for each of the last three financial years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 September 1977: 
Will the Government introduce freight assistance policies to ensure that the cost of necessities to isolated towns and settlements in the interior and northern coast of Australia is comparable with the cost of goods in more highly populated areas of Australia. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to a situation which is developing on Groote Eylandt, off the Northern Territory, whereby the Northern Land Council has stated that the European employees of Gemco will not be allowed to leave the company leases unless the Groote Eylandt mining company is prepared to re-negotiate the lease conditions which, I understand, currently return some 334 per cent royalty to the Aboriginal people. Having regard to the fact that the Groote Eylandt project has been in existence for some years and its position is recognised within the Northern Territory Aboriginal Land Rights Act, is not the action being taken to restrict the movement of Gemco employees in confrontation with the tenor of the legislation? Having in mind that this action, while apparently having no legal backing, is also causing considerable ill feeling and a breakdown in good relations in the area, will the Government use its good offices to return Groote Eylandt to a rational situation? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) Did  Mr Neville  Perkins, the Australian Labor Party candidate for MacDonnell in the recent Northern Territory Legislative Assembly elections, state on the Australian Broadcasting Commission  Broadband  program, on 18 August 1977, that there had been large cuts in Government spending for Aboriginal people; if so, is this correct. 
What is the total amount of money allocated by the Government for Aboriginal purposes in each of the last three financial years. 
What money was allocated by the Government for Aboriginal purposes in the Northern Territory for each of the last three financial years. 
What funds have been allocated by the Government to the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress, of which  Mr Perkins  is a director, for each of the last three financial years. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I am not sure whether  Senator Mulvihill  has asked this question. In view of the concern shown in some sectors of the Northern Territory that the Kakadu National Park should be proclaimed before uranium mining commences, can the Minister indicate what stage planning for the park has reached? What organisations or Government departments are participating in the planning? On what approximate date is it expected that Kakadu National Park will be proclaimed? 

 - Mr President- 
 (Quorum formed). It was my intention to seek leave to make a personal explanation when  Senator Keeffe  finished his speech. However, as I have received the call, I will deal with that explanation.  Senator Keeffe  made the statement that I had addressed a land rights meeting in Alice Springs and then for some reason or other I had gone to my home, locked myself in the bathroom and wrote a statement which was contrary to what I said at the meeting. 
The honourable senator has had his say. Let it be. If  Senator Keeffe  wishes to interrupt me, he may do so.  Senator Keeffe  has said that I, having made the statement that I accepted and supported land rights, went home and wrote an article to the contrary. Of course he had not looked at the history of the Northern Territory. I have mentioned this once before in this place. When I was a member of the then Northern Territory Legislative Council, in 1965 or 1966, 1 think it was, before land rights became a popular theme - 
I know he is a bit afraid to look at history. Where is the honourable senator going now? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order!  Senator O'Byrne,  you will withdraw that comment. I heard you say hypocrite'. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I do not care what you were talking about. You interjected. You will withdraw that comment. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! I am not going to tolerate any interjections tonight. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  How can anyone be afraid of what they read. I am not a hypocrite. If  Senator Keeffe  looks at the  Hansard  record of the then Northern Territory Legislative Council- I refer the honourable senator to 1965, 1966 or whichever year it was- he will see that there was a motion before the Northern Territory Legislative Council, which was probably the first motion of its kind in a parliament in Australia, in which I moved that there be a standing committee on assimilation. As far as I understand, that was the first move in Australia to bring about land rights for Aboriginal people. Naturally it was proposed to help the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory who are my friends. 
From that situation, many things happened with the result that in the Legislative Council, in 1968 or 1969 I think it was, legislation providing for the first time in Australia, the granting of land to Aboriginal people was passed. I will say no more than that. I think it is rather futile for anybody, let alone  Senator Keeffe,  to stand up in this place and say that I have supported land rights in public and have then gone and locked myself in the bathroom to write an article to the contrary. I must say that that is the most ridiculous statement and one that is completely wrong. I invite anybody in this place or any other place to look at the history. 
I feel sorry for the honourable senator. I feel sorry for him because he has come into this chamber tonight and he has delivered this tirade of hate against authority. Why would a senator from Queensland who has been a member of this chamber for many years deliver such a tirade against police and authority. I listened very closely but I could not hear one constructive remark. There was this tirade of hate. With all due respect to what  Senator Cavanagh  has said, as I have indicated before I have respect for what that honourable senator has done in the past. We heard this tirade from  Senator Keeffe  quoting what  Senator Cavanagh  has done, what he had said and what other people had said. There was one point that I noted most. Perhaps I am a little sensitive about this matter because I live amongst Aboriginal people. It would be true to say that this year I suppose I have spent most weekends away from this place up in the Northern Territory with the Aboriginal people as I have done for the last three weekends in various parts of the Territory and the isolated parts. 
As I have said - 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT-Order! I do not want any comment from you,  Senator Keeffe.  You have had your turn. 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT-Order! I call  Senator Kilgariff. 
As I have said before, I feel sorry for the honourable senator because of this tirade we have heard. Obviously he has twisted the matter. Can I say that he has a twisted mind? Perhaps not. But something has happened in his background which has caused him to have this sort of outlook which of course is completely erroneous to the situation that exists today. As I was saying - 

 Senator Keeffe- Mr Deputy President, I rise to take a point of order. You objected to me interjecting.  Senator Kilgariff  is not addressing you,  Sir. He  is directing his remarks to me and not to the subject matter. I think he ought to be sticking to the subject matter; otherwise I claim the privilege of interjecting each time he tells an untruth. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Keeffe,  I do not uphold your point of order because of the last statement you made. 
As I was saying, the Aboriginal people are my friends. If we rise at 5 o'clock tomorrow, I will arrive in Darwin at 2.30 in the morning. At 7 o'clock that morning I will be some 1 50 to 200 miles out of Darwin attending a meeting to which I have been invited by the Aboriginal people. So I think my qualifications are such that the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory trust me. 
I suppose that if ever there should be an inquiry there should be one after the speech that we have just heard from  Senator Keeffe  to clear up completely, if nothing else, that smear, the dreadful dirt that has been shovelled, upon the police and people in authority in Australia. I rufute this claim completely- well, not completely because I acknowledge that even in a barrel of apples one may strike a bad apple. But this is life, is it not? No matter where we are we will strike a bad apple amongst many good apples. I would say that the same situation is to be found in the various police forces today. But I am not speaking of that one bad apple. I am speaking about the Police Force in the Northern Territory to which  Senator Keeffe  referred. There goes  Senator Keeffe.  He has left the Senate. There you are. Perhaps we will meet him another time.  (Quorum formed).  We were talking about one bad apple and a lot of good apples. I know the Northern Territory because I move around it continuously, especially through the outback. I assure honourable senators and the people of Australia that the Northern Territory police force, and I am sure the police forces in many other places, take a very sympathetic viewpoint to the Aboriginal people. 
Let me tell you of something that happened to me some two weeks ago in the Northern Territory. At that time I was some 200 miles south of Alice Springs, having been invited by the Aboriginal people- the Appatula people- to come and see them, which I did. We were looking at a situation which I have mentioned before. A hotel had been taken over by these people and run by them. It had brought about such a tremendous social development in this isolated town that the situation is a credit to them. During the afternoon when they were reviewing the effect on their community after having taken over the hotel some two years ago- these were the words which came straight from the Aboriginal people- they said to the community adviser at this meeting: 'Will you please write a letter to the 
Commissioner of Police in the Northern Territory? We want to tell the Commissioner of Police what a good job the young constable who is living with us in this area in the Finke is doing and what a good friend he is to us'. Because I am interested when I hear  Senator Keeffe  talk of black and doom and of the oppression which has happened, I looked at this matter a bit further. Here were the traditional leaders of the tribe. They said: 'Write a letter and tell the Commissioner what a good job this young constable has done'.  Mr Deputy President,  do you know what had happened? Three years ago on this settlement there had been murder, manslaughter, maiming of people, drunkenness, broken families, children neglected and the Appatula housing association was in pieces. Out of this came reform and almost a miracle which the people brought about themselves. This one constable who has lived among these people has arrested one person in something like the last year. He arrested this one person for drunkenness or some such charge because the elders of the tribe said: 'You come and do it'. Why do we have the stirring up of a situation with honourable senators opposite calling for a commission when there are many things happening within the community today which are bringing about a development of better relations. We can go back decades and see what has happened in blackwhite relations. I suppose this has happened in every country where a majority has taken to the minority. That is part of life, I suppose. But the fact now is that the Aboriginal people are part of our way of life. I assure honourable senators that the Aboriginal people are coming up. 
I make another point which  Senator Keeffe  did not make tonight. He quoted many authorities for this and that but I did not hear him quote the name of one Aboriginal person. As I have said in very many places, and I say it here tonight, the voice of Aboriginal people is not coming through such people as  Senator Keeffe.  He is the type of person- there are many around Australiawho attempts to speak on behalf of the Aboriginal people, but the Aboriginal people will not have a bar of him. The Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory have said to me: 'Why does that man come to us from Queensland? He comes to us and he asks what do we want. He is always asking us what do we want but before we can say anything he keeps talking'. If that is the case, how can  Senator Keeffe  and his like speak on behalf of the Aboriginal people? 
I would not stand and endeavour to hide any malpractice as far as the police and Aboriginal  people are concerned. We have had many difficulties in the past and we will have difficulties in the future. But if we earnestly and sincerely want to bring about better relations between the European community and the Aboriginal community, the last thing we want is a royal commission. What we should do is go into their communities and show some sympathy for them. I assure honourable senators that by showing sympathy to the Aboriginal people - 
And understanding, as the honourable senator has said then we would not need a royal commission to improve relations. 
There have been faults on many sides. I am saying that with proper education, sympathy and interest much more can be gained these days without creating a permanent whirlpool of emotion. We have to overcome this problem. As I have said before, the only way to do this is by going into their community with some understanding. If there is to be an inquiry, perhaps such a move was taken some little time ago. One looks at the Law Reform Commission. My understanding of the situation at the moment is that in August 1975 the Law Reform Commission proposed significant changes to the process for handling and determining complaints. This was directed to the Australian police force. We well know that the Australian police force was not proceeded with; it was not formed. One could say: 'Thank goodness for that'. However, that is another argument. On 7 January this year came the reconsideration of the first report, in the light of the Australian police force not being formed. My understanding is that the matter of relations between the police and Aboriginals went before the Law Reform Commission in March this year. Tentative points have been put forward, but there has not yet been a final report to the Government. When the Government receives this final report it will be open for the Australian community to look at it, to criticise it, to advise on it and to make recommendations on it. We should not forge ahead with one of these emotional commissions of inquiry about which  Senator Keeffe  has been speaking. The criminal investigations legislation has picked up many of the recommendations that have been made in the past. 

 Senator Keeffe said some harsh things. In his usual style, he made some harsh statements about me. That does not worry me. It would worry me if the people of the Northern Territory believed them. But the people of the Northern Territory do not believe the statements he makes. The statements he makes regarding my name and activities mean nothing to me because the people of the Northern Territory know otherwise. A little while ago there were complaints in the Northern Territory regarding the police. These complaints continue. The police have investigated very many complaints. I suppose it is natural that there are many complaints throughout the whole community. I think two policemen were discharged from the service in the last year. I do not think they were discharged for acts against Aboriginal people. I hope not. I think one discharge resulted from a car accident after which a constable helped himself to some equipment in the car. He was removed from the service. I am not too sure what the other offence was, but the policeman was found guilty. Inquiries are carried out within the police force. If a person oversteps the mark he is reprimanded or removed from the service. 
It has been said that it is insufficient for a complaint to be made to the Commissioner of Police. The situation could well be coloured and the facts of the case would not come out; the case would not be investigated. Perhaps it has not been noted by  Senator Keeffe  and others that in the Northern Territory, to which he referred to some degree, anyone who has a complaint against the police now directs his complaint to the Crown Law Officer who will then take it up. It is investigated by a person who is divorced from the police force and who can judge the situation without fear or favour.  Mr Deputy President,  as this is a matter of some importance I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator Guilfoyle)  proposed: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Kilgariff  sought leave to continue his remarks. No one objected and leave was granted.  Senator Guilfoyle  has moved that the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. I now put that question. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1 977: 
1 ) What is the present situation in regard to the issuing of leases for 'Aboriginal fringe dwellers camping areas in Alice Springs, as requested by various Aboriginal groups. 
Have all the leases been equipped with water, power, sewerage, shelters and other essential facilities; if not, what is the present situation, and when is it anticipated that the facilities will be completed to enable Aboriginal people to move to the leases from public areas. 
Will it be necessary to take further action in other centres, such as Tennant Creek, Katherine and Pine Creek. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development upon notice on 5 October 1977: 
What action is the Government taking to upgrade tourist facilities at Ayers Rock to comply with necessary health requirements, in view of the proposed plan to incorporate Ayers Rock within a national park concept. 
Has the Northern Territory Reserves Board been requested to cancel the leases of operators of accommodation houses at Ayers Rock. 
Has the Board also been asked to prevent those persons from carrying out necessary improvements to their businesses, despite the fact that the new village concept has been postponed indefinitely. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
1 ) Has the Department of Social Security taken steps to establish a Social Welfare Unit for Aborigines within the Department; if so, is this Social Welfare Unit to have comparable powers to the Social Welfare Units in the Departments of Health and Education. 
What will be the role, particular responsibilities, and powers of this unit. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Recently there have been many reports emanating from the media, the courts and government departments about the prevalence of illegal drugs in the north of Australia. Having in mind the apparent increase in the amount of drugs in the Darwin area, what steps is the Government taking to ensure that adequate surveillance of the coast from the Darwin area to the Kimberleys is being carried out? Is it correct that despite the concern of these many authorities there are insufficient customs officers to oversee this area and that we are paying just lip service to dealing with this rapidly growing problem? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
What action does the Government intend to take to provide copying services and microfilm readers and printers to private and Government researchers following the provision of an archives building in Darwin and the transfer of records back to the Northern Territory. 
As the Northern Territory is far behind the States in research, securing essential historical records, et cetera, will the Government upgrade the services provided by the Archives to safeguard the records of the past ana provide research facilities for the present. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 21 September 1977: 
1 ) Did the Managing Director of Connair Pty Ltd state recently that, because of lack of financial support from the Government and the airline's inability to obtain departmental agreement to the re-equipping and modernisation ofthe airline, he must close the airline on 30 September 1977 to prevent further loss. 
Will the Government urgently review the position and assist the airline to become profitable, to ensure the continuity of a third level public transport airline in the outback. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 6 October 1 977: 
1 ) What is the European population of each of the Aboriginal settlements in the Northern Territory. 
How many are employed by the Departments of Aboriginal Affairs, Health, Education, and any other Department in each of these settlements. 
How many are employed by the Aboriginal Councils, retail stores and housing co-operatives in each of these settlements. 
What is the Aboriginal population in each of these settelements 
What is the number of school pupils in each of these settlements. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Education. I am pleased to see that the Government is developing specific purpose programs within its plans for future education needs of the Australian community. Recalling the fact that the Minister has received many representations from the outback of Australia, particularly in regard to disadvantaged children, disadvantaged schools and disadvantaged country areas, is he in a position to indicate whether these specific purpose programs will be of benefit to these outback areas where isolation and economic pressures are causing considerable hardship? 
My question follows upon an earlier one put to the Minister for Education. This year the Government has produced a national Aboriginal employment policy to assist Aboriginal people generally, but particularly in their communities in isolated areas. I understand that as part of that policy there has been a review of the Aboriginal education field with a view to training more Aboriginal people as aides, teachers, et cetera. Is the Minister in a position to indicate the present situation? Is it the intention of the Government to increase the number of staff within the Department to give added emphasis to the training of Aboriginal people to work within their own communities? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 18 October 1977: 
Will FM radio licences be granted to the Darwin and Alice Springs Community Colleges. If so, when. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
Has the Department of Transport authority to take action, following complaints of Aboriginal Councils in the area, against operators of charter aircraft who carry liquor and intoxicated persons from towns in the Northern Territory to Aboriginal settlements; if so, what action can be contemplated. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 20 September 1977: 
Is effluent from the sewerage ponding area, which overflows at the rate of hundreds of thousands of gallons per day into El Papa Swamp, causing a rapidly growing health problem at Alice Springs. 
Are mosquitoes, including those which could cause encephalitis, breeding in large numbers in the El Papa Swamp, thereby causing considerable discomfort to both the Aboriginal and European populations in the area. 
Will the Government take urgent action to overcome these problems. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I refer to the Governor-General 's opening Speech in this House in which he stated that the Government's decision to proceed with the export of uranium will make a significant contribution to meeting the world's future energy needs. Is the Minister in a position to indicate now that the green light has been clearly given as to the time-table of development of uranium in the Northern Territory? If so, when is it anticipated that this uranium will be available to those countries which have agreed to the Australian Government's safety formula for the use of uranium for specific energy purposes? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. In view of the somewhat chaotic situation that has developed in the export and interstate live beef market in particular through the discovery of bluetongue in Australia, is the Minister in a position to advise the Senate of the present situation with regard to the movement of cattle both interstate and overseas? Secondly, what action is contemplated by the Government to overcome the problem? Thirdly, what contact has there been with our clients in such areas as Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Hong Kong and Japan in regard to the matter? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and the Minister for the Northern Territory. In a Press release last week the Minister for the Northern Territory defined three bluetongue areas and classified them according to districts in the Northern Territory. Severe restrictions have been placed on the movement of stock, affecting some 300,000 cattle, in the most severely hit area, the endemic area around Katherine and Darwin. In view of the expressed aim of the Government to ensure that the industry remains as operative as possible by the application of the minimum possible use of severe restrictions on cattle as the export of live cattle is now precluded, and, having in mind also that many pastoralists are in dire financial straits, I ask: Is it the intention of the Government to review the situation and, wherever necessary, to give additional financial support to prevent the complete economic collapse of those pastoralists? 

 - Mr President, it is barely a year since the Senate participated in an Address-in-Reply debate. On that occasion the Australian Houses of Parliament were honoured by the presence of  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth, the Queen of Australia. Last week we were honoured by our new Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen. One of his first official duties in Australia has been to open the Parliament. I hope that in the ensuing period when he is Governor-General of Australia the country will progress and that those problems before us today on which  Senator Gietzelt  has spoken at length tonight, including unemployment, will be in a much improved situation at the end of his term. I congratulate  Senator Walters  and  Senator Collard  on moving and seconding the Address-in-Reply. I also commend  Senator Janine  Haines, the new senator from South Australia. One point that struck me in her speech was her emphasis on pornography. I think that part of her speech was well worth listening to. 

 Senator Gietzelt said that the GovernorGeneral's Speech was tedious. For many people in Australia, including myself and the people of the outback, I would not consider that that Speech was tedious. Firstly, it contained the very good news that the fuel subsidy scheme is to be renewed. The scheme that made so much difference to the people of the outback is once more to come into being. In the years following removal of the fuel subsidy scheme costs in outback Australia increased tremendously, bringing in their train considerable hardship. They brought a higher cost of living to the working family, to the business man, to the carrier and in particular- I have noticed this in the last two years- a higher cost of living in those isolated settlements on our northern coast. There people are dependent on transport by barge and so on at very high costs. I am very happy to see that the fuel subsidy scheme is to be reintroduced. It will be a tremendous thing for the outback. 
The Governor-General's Speech also made mention of a program of assistance to the rural areas and examination of ways to offset the uncertainties of export markets for the primary producers. This is a measure that is essential. More assistance is to be given to disadvantaged people and their children, of whom there are many in Australia today. So I would not say that the Speech was tedious. I would say that it was a Speech of hope and I expect that in the next three years many things will happen within this Parliament that will be of assistance to the Australian people. 

 Senator Gietzelt has spoken, full of misery, about unemployment. Unemployment is a very serious matter; it is a cancer within the Australian community. But things are being done that will bring about a remedy of this situation. These measures were taken to control inflation. A short while ago inflation was running at about 18 per cent. The figure is now about 8 per cent. The very damaging period when inflation was running at the high level of 1 8 per cent was the beginning of the current period of unemployment. Matters cannot be cured overnight. So let us not have this misery because I am sure that the actions to be taken will bring about in the next 1 2 months a drop in the rate of inflation. Many matters were covered in the Governor-General's Speech that would prompt discussion. As a representative of the people of the Northern Territory, I think there is much to be said on behalf of the majority of the people of the north. But time tonight will not permit me fully to cover the Governor-General's Speech. There are many matters that I would like to highlight, including the seven priorities laid down within the Speech. Because of the various matters that have arisen within the last few weeks, I feel that whilst I would like to speak about the situation in Timor- I will speak on that at a later date- I would also like to speak on what I would term the 'Pacific family'. I refer to Australia's becoming more and more involved with the Pacific nations, such as China, Japan and the Phillipines. I believe that is where our future lies. This will have to be a subject for discussion at a latter date. 
The matter on which I wish to speak mainly tonight is one that concerns me. I believe that it concerns most Australians although many Australians pay very little heed to it. But certainly the people of the outback and the people of the north heed it and it is in their minds constantly. I refer to the defence of Australia. Australia has an area of some 3,000,000 square miles. Its coastline is some 12,000 miles long. If Australia, as it obviously will, claims the 200 mile offshore limit, it will mean that Australia's burden of responsibility will be doubled. While Australia has a population of 14 million people centered in the south east of Australia, bundled there where the climate is more suitable for the people, there is a large area that has very few inhabitants. With a defence budget at present of less than $2.5 billion, which is low, its effectiveness will be further reduced by the necessary surveillance of the 200 mile limit. 
I would say that Australia's defence forces have, since the last war, been given low priority. The only time that Australia has given the priority necessary for the well being of Australia has been in time of war. The principle of using our defence forces has changed. It was in the times of the Boer War, the First and Second World Wars and the Vietnam War, that we used to send our troops, our sons, to far distant places to fight the enemy. But times have changed and I believe that in future we will not be sending our troops overseas. We will have to defend our country on our own homeland. Principles are changing overnight. We will have to endeavour to protect and to keep under surveillance that area of land and sea belonging to Australia which is of immense proportions. In reading the  Pacific Defence Reporter  of February 1978 I was struck by an article entitled 'New Military Technologies for the Defence of Australia'. It reads: 
From these two new basic elements of Australia's national security policy- i.e., Defence of Australia rather than Forward Defence and self-reliance- flow a number of important new strategic considerations. 
First, Australia's defence forces are now to be based principally in Australia. 
Second, self-reliance involves the development of an indigenous defence infrastructure- defence industry, logistic support, etc. 
Third, to a very large degree, initiative is now to be given to the aggressor. Since, for various technical, strategic and political reasons, pre-emption is not a viable policy for Australia, the environment for future Australian military operations becomes the Australian continent, its off-shore island territories, and its air and maritime approaches. 
Fourth, warning times are likely to be rather short and force expansion times no longer matters for our decision only as essentially they were during the Second World War and the Vietnam involvement. Hence, forces-in-being assume much greater importance than in the past. And, fifth, in the new strategic environment, joint force operations assume much greater relevance. 
Today most of our defence forces and equipment is positioned in the eastern seaboard, the southern part of the continent, and apparently no further north than Townsville. In the north there is what can be described only as a smattering of defence units, a few patrol boats, a few aircraft and little Army. In Darwin there is a DC3 aircraft and the only helicopter in the Northern Territory was removed to a southern base. The Navy has four patrol boats-  Assail, Adroit, Aware  and  Ardent.  The Army has an administrative unit. The defence of the north has always been a matter of frustration for the people of the north, I would say from 1824 when Fort Dundas was established. Fort Wellington was established in 1827 and Raffles Bay was established in 1829. They were established there to claim and protect the north from the enemies of the day. They were all abandoned. 
The people of the north are also frustrated in times of crisis. During the Second World War in the bombing of the north many people were killed. The people are frustrated because in the bombing of Darwin- the little Pearl Harbourmany hundreds of people were killed mainly because warnings were ignored. The Darwin bombing need not have happened and the number of deaths need not have happened because the Japanese armada which was approaching Darwin at Garden Point, an island in the direction of Timor, sent a warning to the defence forces in Darwin but it was ignored. 
One can understand the frustration there during that period when the people of the north were so aware of the necessity for defence and there came about the incredible principle of the Brisbane Line. Today one finds it very difficult to see who was the author of it. Everyone disclaims ownership. The Brisbane Line was to ignore the north and to retire behind a line across Brisbane and to leave the north to itself. Indeed, this is the thinking about development in the north today. Quite often it comes across, particularly in the bureaucratic system. Why develop the north when it can be left as a barrier against the development and the people of the south? A little later, just a few years ago, there was the Indonesian crisis. Aircraft were rushed to Darwin and some came from England. This created some excitement and interest. It was said that the north should be defended but after that everything went back to a quiet situation. 
Canoes came from Indonesia. There was the threat of disease and over this particular period many kept drifting through. Australia came alive again and it was said: 'We must do something about it. Disease will enter Australia and we will all be lost'. Then the canoes did not come after a while and the interest of Australia lapsed again. There was the  Van Gogh  incident in the Gulf of Carpentaria. I understand that shots were fired in anger because a Russian ship was trawling in the Gulf of Carpentaria. There was a very tense incident there. Once again it was said that we must protect the north and bring in the defence forces because the north coast is undefended; but then that was forgotten too. 
Then there was the Timor debacle. To some degree that branched off to Australia because the Indonesians were, I can describe it only as annihilating, the Timorese. This was occurring only 13 minutes by jet from Darwin to Timor. We had a war on our doorstep. There was interest about it but that is dying away. The Vietnamese refugees, the unfortunate people, have been coming down in shiploads. Some people have said that they were helpless people and that they had a right to come. I agree with them. They came right into the heart of the north in decrepit little vessels. They were able to approach right to our northern coastline before they were found. In fact the only reason why we took it up was that we found that there were more vessels with Vietnamese refugees on the way. 
The latest problem is the drug runners. Aircraft are used for smuggling. Australia comes awake again. I would say I am very critical and so are the people of the north. Australia has come out of its pleasant dreams and apparently enjoys the sensation of excitement, a two-day wonder, and then returns to its comfortable feeling of 'I am all right Jack'. In the north, where people have personally felt the effects of war and see the possibility of the introduction of disease and the increasing amounts of smuggled drugs, there is continuing frustration because so little is done or can be done by authorities in the area. As an example, I have indicated that canoes land in isolated areas and small boats appear from anywhere. Unidentified aircraft are reported by other aircraft and by air traffic controllers. 
Wildlife inspectors have seen low flying aircraft off the coast with no apparent reason for being there. An environmental committee of the Federal Parliament reports that evidence suggests that outback airstrips are used for smuggling, illegal export of exotic birds et cetera. Aboriginals report unidentified ships, including what appear to be mother ships with several ships in attendance. Lights are seen off-shore by night but by sunrise they have disappeared. Aboriginals report boats sheltering in isolated bays, yet none of them has been identified or known. Very little can be done to investigate. The Northern Territory police have one boat in Darwin. Along the coast they are equipped with boats a little better than 12 feet or 15 feet long, with outboard motors. At times of crisis police have had to charter boats. 
The time has surely come when the importance of surveillance and the defence of the north are put into proper perspective and to combat the considerable distances involved defence forces, customs emergency services, police and people of the north are joined together to defend this country, not only in the event of an attack by a hostile country but also to prevent the introduction of disease and, probably the most important of all at present, to prevent more drugs coming into Australia through our northern coast. Drugs must surely be one of the biggest enemies of the day to the Australian community. One had sympathy for the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  when he said he had 'Buckley's' chance of obtaining sufficient funds from Treasury to provide adequate equipment to defend this vast area. Nevertheless I am more optimistic and believe that if Australia realises the potential danger that lies in the weakness of our defence, funding will be sufficient. If not, we will remain a cream puff' society that will surely be devoured in one way or the other in the coming decades. 
Would it not be common sense to have the Orion aircraft of the maritime wing now being formed and based in Edinburgh, South Australia, positioned in the north and merely returned to that base for maintenance et cetera? The Jindalee 'over the horizon ' radar could possibly be the basis for our northern surveillance. It could work in conjunction with radar stations on the north coast. This 'over the horizon' radar is one of the new technologies in which Australia ranks with America and England. It is stationed in the outback of Australia and has the ability to pick up aircraft way out in the Indian Ocean. It has tracked and traced Qantas Airways Ltd aircraft flying between Sydney and Singapore. Surely this must be the basis on which we should build our defence. It could well be that further radar stations are required on the off-shore islands or in the Indian Ocean. Could not airborne early warning aircraft also be slotted into this radar system if Australia thinks it is warranted? We in the north believe so. 
It is a matter of considerable urgency that the Navy forces in the area be built up. As I have said before, the four patrol boats,  Assail, Adroit, Aware  and  Ardent,  and their crews are giving sterling service but surely blue water ships are also required. A small ships base should be constructed in the north, say in Darwin Harbour, for servicing, maintenance et cetera. Last year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  indicated that Darwin Harbour was to be upgraded and a land-backed wharf was to be constructed. That was welcome news. The first recommendation for such a move was made in about 1888, 90 years ago. I commend the Government for this move. It is essential for the maintenance and development of that area. While on the subject of Darwin, one presumes that the radar and communications stations that have been or are being constructed since Cyclone Tracy can withstand the strongest of future cyclones. The former sophisticated stations were blown away in Cyclone Tracy. Darwin made contact with the outside world after the cyclone by a radio ham and light aircraft radio. 
I have indicated previously during Question Time in this House that I believe that the customs authorities do not have the strength to declare war on the smuggler. I hope this situation is being rectified. As well as requiring a Navy and Air Force, the north requires a coast guard service with Customs authorities suitably equipped with vessels to play their proper role in attacking the aggressors who are bringing in illegal drugs worth millions of dollars. I understand that Customs vessels are to be stationed in Cairns, Broome and Darwin. Is this sufficient? Are these boats positioned already? The equipping of the Northern Territory Police Force has been neglected over the years. Perhaps now, with the transfer of powers and responsible government in the Northern Territory, this can be overcome. A promised fleet of patrol boats has never eventuated. Only one has been provided for Darwin Harbour. The Northern Territory Police would have considerable capacity if it were properly equipped with patrol boats of sufficient size to patrol the coast from Nhulunbuy to the Gulf of Carpentaria and through to Port Keats where it would be expected that the Western Australian authorities would pick up the responsibility. Why can Australia not have this type of equipment for its police when large countries such as Canada have it? They too have aircraft which I consider essential. 
The Army has a place in the north. In fact, the front line troops of the Army should be in the north. During the last War the Army was effective, using small groups out on patrol, in keeping isolated areas under surveillance. Groups of platoon size with mobile support provided by helicopter can do much to keep check in these isolated areas and keep up a close liaison with the people of the bush, the police and the Aboriginal people. The Aboriginal people are there to help. Last year in Yirrkala- that is near Nhulunbuy in Arnhem Land- the Council discussed its problems with me and their concern at the movement of vessels in the area. They too, over the decades, have come to fear the strangers from the sea. This is a big problem for them. The Aboriginal people, with their highly developed senses for the strange, could make able watchers on the coast or in the bush where many isolated airstrips abound. It is not a question of saying that we will use them; the Aboriginal people have offered their services. They proved their worth in this capacity during the last war. 
Then, of course, there are the charter aircraft, the light aircraft of the Northern Territory, the private fliers, the people in the bush and the public servants on their rounds in the outback. These people can be brought into this system of liaison to combat the drug runner and bring better surveillance of the north. As I have been endeavouring to indicate, much can be done without the undue expense that concerns the Minister who said he had Buckley's chance of financing surveillance. The outpost radio telephone service based in Katherine and Alice Springs is overloaded and communications are extremely slow. The North should have better communications. These things are necessary for liaison, communication and surveillance. Radio Australia is still awaiting reconstruction but probably more important are the two transmitters that were to be established to beam communications through the outback. They have not been positioned there. I do not know whether they will finish up in Shepparton or elsewhere. 
It is true to say that other than for notable exceptions, such as when the people of Australia came so magnificently to the help of Darwin after Cyclone Tracy, since 1 824 when the north was first settled- over 150 years ago- the north and Australia's defences have generally been ignored by the people of Australia. Perhaps the sands of time are running out and our north is crumbling to the invader. We do not know how many drugs are coming in but we know of their effect on the Australian community. In closing, I suggest that the people of Australia look to their priorities. I recommend that they invest in insurance for the future and, if need be, do without some small comforts in order to strengthen the north. Perhaps this is harsh criticism but for the people of the north, because of their frustrations over the decades, criticism cannot be too hard if it will bring results. I ask that the people within the House of Representatives and the Senate also become aware of the potential danger in the north from drug runners, the lack of surveillance and the lack of communications. The north is part of Australia. If the north goes under so does the cream puff society of Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, who will be aware that talks have taken place between Ministers of the Government and the Northern Territory Executive regarding financial arrangements for the transfer of State-like responsibilities from the Commonwealth to the Northern Territory. The Majority Leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has stressed the necessity for the Commonwealth Grants Commission to participate in reviewing Northern Territory standards to bring them to parity with those of the larger States. However, critics claim that this will mean exorbitant taxes, double taxation and many commodities such as bread and milk being subject to price increases. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the correct position? 
Will the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs advise what the Commonwealth's attitude would be in relation to tax revenue levels, which may be set in the Territory by the Commonwealth, in the event of the current negotiations concerning financial arrangements, et cetera, not being successful and the Northern Territory government not being established by 1 July 1978? Will the Minister also inform me whether, in the event of agreement not being reached, the levels of taxation in the Territory would remain unchanged or rise to the levels of taxation imposed by, say, New South Wales, Victoria and other States of Australia? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Following the crash landing of an aircraft laden with drugs near Katherine and also the sighting of, and eventual loss of contact with, an unidentified aircraft over the northern coast a few days later, can the Minister advise whether any further unidentified aircraft have been reported in the northern area since then. Is it a fact that the aircraft which had been sighted before it disappeared refuelled at an isolated settlement and then departed? Are investigations being made to check on sales of fuel to aircraft in northern Australia to ascertain the identity of crews and aircraft and the purpose for which they are in the area? Is the registration and ownership of small ships on the northern coast being checked and their purpose for being in the area established? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Trade and Resources. It has been reported that the Australian Atomic Energy Commission has stated that it is anticipated that between 1980 and 1985 there will be a drop in the demand for uranium of some 36 per cent from the original estimates of production because of delays and revisions caused primarily by environmentalist groups. In view of" the fact that there are indications that the development of uranium mining may be further retarded because little progress is being made and little agreement is being arrived at between people representing Aboriginal interests, mining interests, government authorities, et cetera, is it now not unlikely that the timetable for future estimates of production of uranium may also have to be further amended? In the event of an impasse in the situation will the Government bring the matter before an arbitrator and take whatever action is considered necessary to ensure that stability and common sense are brought to the planning and development of uranium? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. On the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  AM  on Tuesday, 14 March, it was reported that an organisation, the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress, had used funds supplied by the Government for purposes other than those specified by the Government. Is this report correct now, or does it emanate from the financial year 1976-77, when proper accounting procedures and financial controls were not carried out, resulting in closer supervision of the organisation by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and by auditors appointed to the organisation? What is the present position regarding funds for the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress? 
I support the Territory Authorities (Financial Provisions) Bill and oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition. As has been indicated by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in her second reading speech, this is purely a machinery Bill. It will cover certain commercial Territory authorities that prior to 1973 had not been covered by financial provisions legislation.  Senator Knight  has covered extremely well the situation of the Australian Capital Territory and I intend just briefly to refer to that of the Northern Territory. As one can see from the Territory Authorities (Financial Provisions) Bill, under Part I the only portion that relates to the Northern Territory is the reference to the Darwin Community College as an authority that is exempt from taxation. 
The amendment proposed by the Opposition seeks to add to the motion the following words:  but the Senate is of the opinion that provisions relating to taxation of statutory authorities in the Territories should be withheld pending discussions on the financial arrangements for the Territories as they move towards self-government. 
As I see it, at present the Australian Capital Territory is a long way from self-government; perhaps it will never get that far. At least, it is now a considerable way from it and much water must flow under the bridge before it reaches that point. That is not the case with the Northern Territory. There have been many constitutional changes in the Northern Territory since 1947 when the Legislative Council was formed. They were the days of what was then called the 7-6 treatment, there being seven nominated members of the Assembly, and six elected from the Northern Territory. No matter what the people of the Territory felt, no matter what they asked their elected members to do within the Legislative Council, no matter how they acted, the Federal Government was in a situation in which its seven nominees could veto any action taken on behalf of the Territory. The people of the Territory suffered much under that arrangement because, whilst a part of Australia, they as yet had no say whatsoever in their own affairs. From that day onwards the situation persisted up to the time when certain moves were made, notably the elected members walking out of the 
Northern Territory Legislative Council. These moves resulted in a further constitutional changethe introduction of nominated members. 
From that stage forward there were three nominated non-official members. The number of elected members was increased. Even then the elected members of the Territory within the Legislative Council were outnumbered by appointees. That situation continued until gradually, step by step, the people of the Territory indicated strongly their desire to have some say in their own affairs, just as has anyone in any State of Australia. At last it was decided that the Territory should have a fully elected Legislative Assembly. This was prompted by a joint parliamentary committee formed from the two Houses of this Parliament to report on the Territory. That committee made many recommendations, which I have discussed on previous occasions. The report became the bible for further constitutional change that produced a fully elected council. Gradually, the people of the Northern Territory were beginning to have some little say in their own affairs. 
They were still frustrated by the fact that they were controlled and ruled by people who were 1,000 to 2,000 miles away in the Federal sphere- the bureaucrats; the Government in Canberra. So this further constitutional change to a fully elected council occurred. The joint committee report listed various actions that would lead to a Northern Territory Executive to be formed and certain State-like responsibilities to be transferred from the Federal sphere to the Northern Territory. However, this took a little while because although the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly became a fully elected body, it was given no teeth. That was because a Federal Labor Government was in office. Although it enacted the amendment to the Northern Territory Administration Act that created a fully elected council, it did not pursue the recommendations of the joint committee, which would have transferred to the Territory more executive responsibility and allowed it more say in its own affairs. So things began to dwindle on the vine; the bough began to die back. There was then a change of Federal government and immediately the new coalition government took up the report, and pursued its recommendations. This course has been followed for some three years now. Many consultations and discussions have taken place. There have been two Legislative Assembly elections and the Party to which I belong has made its number one policy for the Northern Territory that its people, in common with everyone else in Australia, should have a say in their own affairs. 
In the last 1 8 months we have reached a critical stage in the negotiations, to the point where the Territory has begun to enjoy a transfer of powers leading to what is called responsible selfgovernment. Some of those powers, I believe some 34 in number, were transferred on 1 January, but a large number are yet to be transferred. The timetable provides for this to take place on 1 July. On that date if certain things happen- I stress this- we will see completed the transfer of State-like responsibilities to the Northern Territory. Its people, for the first time since the Territory was first settled in 1 824, will be in a position similar to that of people in the States. This is responsible self-government. No matter what other people may say in an endeavour to draw a red herring across the track in criticising actions that have been taken by the Northern Territory Executive, this is not Statehood but responsible self-government. Statehood, as enjoyed by the States, is something for the future in the Northern Territory. 
As one who has been involved in this situation for a considerable time I cannot, nor can any of my friends within my Party, yet look to the day when Statehood will be achieved by the Northern Territory. There is much yet to be done. What we are discussing now is responsible self-government, with the Federal Government retaining, under the Northern Territory Administration Act, certain powers. I repeat, on 1 July most of the State-like responsibilities will be transferred, but certain other powers will not. More time is required to work out the ramifications of the responsibilities involved. One cannot rush into the transference of such powers as govern health and education. Aboriginal affairs is, of course, a Commonwealth responsibility and for the present will remain such. There are in the Northern Territory, as there are in this Parliament and in Australia generally, two differing viewpoints: Federalism versus centralism. Centralism envisages one authority within Australia associated not with State Parliaments but with regional authorities responsible to it. That is centralisma Federal government responsible for the ruling of Australia and there being no other authority. Federalism is something quite different. Federalism recognises that there is a federal government, the State governments and regional responsibilities. 
The honourable senator can have his say at any time he likes. I am describing the difference in policies and the reason why the majority of people in the Northern Territory wish to have federalism. Federalism will give them responsibilities and the opportunity to have a say in their own affairs. 
As I have said before, much has to be done even before 1 July. The financial arrangements have to be agreed to by the Commonwealth Government and the Northern Territory Executive. Much discussion is taking place. The Majority Leader of the Northern Territory Executive,  Mr Paul  Everingham, has been most fair and open. He has given to the people of the Northern Territory all the information that it is within its power to give. He has indicated to them what is going on. In the last two weeks he has tabled a document in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly indicating the discussions which have taken place between the Federal Government and the Northern Territory Executive. Honourable senators may recall that in the last two weeks I have addressed questions in this place to the Minister representing the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs,  Senator Carrick.  The statements that  Senator Carrick  has made clearly indicate what the financial arrangements for the Northern Territory will be under the Government's federalism policy. Yet there are people who wish to decry those arrangements. They endeavour to draw a red herring across the trail. They speak of double taxation and immense taxation and taxation increases. We know that, under federalism, the Northern Territory will be treated as a minor State by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. Within the framework of that Commission it will be given special consideration, so that it will be brought up to a standard comparable with the larger States of Australia. I refer to Victoria and New South Wales. 
Despite this fact, much is being said within the Territory by the Opposition to put false ideas into the people's minds. Some are saying that the new financial arrangements will cost people in the Northern Territory more money. This is absolute rubbish. It may cost people more in some cases. For instance, stamp duty in the Northern Territory presently costs one cent. After the transfer of powers, this could possibly rise to five cents. I do not think that would cause much hardship to any business or any citizen in the Northern Territory. The Majority Leader of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has said that he will not agree to any financial arrangement that will not be of benefit to the 
Northern Territory. He will not agree to any financial arrangement unless the Commonwealth Grants Commission participates. The work of the Commonweatlh Grants Commission is to assess the requirements of the States and to make recommendations to the Federal Government to support with more finance those States which are under par with others. I do not need to go into a comparison of the States to show where some of the minor States have over the years received special financial assistance. 
The Federal Government has promised that this assistance will be given to the Northern Territory. Nevertheless, the Majority Leader has said that, until the proper financial arrangements have been agreed to by the Commonwealth and the Northern Territory, the Northern Territory Executive will not sign any agreement unless it is beneficial to and protects the people of the Northern Territory. Perhaps some people are being swayed by the arguments of the Opposition. They fear the possible effects on their hip pockets. They fear double taxation. I draw their attention to the fact that the Minister representing the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs has given the lie to the statements that have been made by the Opposition. 
I suggest that the honourable senator should scrutinise the payments made to local government under the new tax sharing arrangements in the last two years. Perhaps then he would not make the comment he has just made. I do not support the amendment moved by the Opposition that provisions relating to taxation of statutory authorities in the Territories should be withheld pending discussions on the financial arrangements for the Territories as they move towards selfgovernment. It is not the role of honourable senators to move such an amendment. The financial arrangements for the Northern Territory are in the good hands of the Northern Territory Executive. For that reason, I support the Bill and I do not support the amendment. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. It has been reported that some 200 to 400 tonnes of uranium ore from the old workings of the Atomic Energy Commission at Rum Jungle have been dumped at Snake Creek. In view of the poor mining practices previously carried out in the area, which polluted streams, caused erosion, et cetera, will the Government advise whether dumping in the area creates any hazards for the people of the area and whether the streams will be contaminated? Is it the intention to clean up the old mining and treatment area of Rum Jungle to ensure that it conforms with present day methods of mining and protects both the environment and people? 
In tabling this report, I take the opportunity on behalf of the Committee to pay tribute to its retiring  Chairman,  the  Hon.  C. R. Kelly, for his dedication and untiring efforts to the Public Works Committee during his long service with the Committee. He had a real understanding of the workings and value of the Committee's bipartisan role, representing as it does all political parties from both Houses of the Parliament. 
Appendix A details the reports presented by the Committee during 1977. The proposals were most thoroughly examined, not only to assess the overall public value of the proposed works but also because the Committee had to satisfy itself as to the need for a project. It is the only committee that inquires in depth into Government expenditure before the expenditure is incurred. Despite the best intentions by departments in detailed investigations to foresee and overcome possible criticisms of proposed works, the Committee has been able to detect weaknesses and, on occasions, designs have been modified. In the case of the Katherine South Primary School, the scope of the proposal was reduced, resulting in a saving of $78,000. In the case of the Wallgrove Animal Quarantine Station, at the suggestion of the Committee, Horse grooms' accommodation was redesigned at a saving of approximately $22,000. Other savings, not yet fully costed, are likely with the inquiries into the Antarctic Division Headquarters and the Royal Australian Air Force bases at Point Cook and Edinburgh. In summary, the Public Works Committee continues to function effectively as the watchdog of the Parliament over public works expenditure. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
Does the Australian Government intend to continue its endeavours to assist the people of East Timor and their economy by offering financial and technological assistance to the Timorese in areas such as agriculture, fisheries and tourism. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs follows two questions that were asked yesterday by members of the Opposition in regard to Aboriginal unemployment. It appears that increasing numbers of Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory are swelling the figures of Aboriginal unemployment, much of which can be attributed to lack of work projects on Aboriginal settlements. Having in mind the request by many Aboriginal councils for finance for work projects within their communities, is it the intention of the Government to develop the Government National Aboriginal Employment Policy by providing finance for community works rather than increase the number of recipients for unemployment benefits- 'sit-down money' as the Aboriginal people call it- which brings nothing but the degradation and destruction of the people involved? 
The people who are listening to the broadcast of this debate must be absolutely sickened by it. Not only sickened, they will also be thinking of the Timorese who are in Australia today.  Senator Wheeldon  has made a speech of emotional hate. He has twisted the words of  Senator Sim.  Not only that, he has meandered around the trouble spots of the world and only occasionally has come back to the question of Timor. It was a debate of hate and it surprised me also that  Senator Wriedt,  the Leader of the 
Opposition in the Senate, in introducing the debate used the words 'immorality and hypocrisy'. When one considers the debate that the supporters ofthe Labor Party have brought on, one thinks back to what actually did happen. Let us remove from the debate all this hysteria, emotion and hatred and go back a little into history. Let us go back to just a few years ago. We have often mentioned this in this chamber, because Timor keeps cropping up, while the knife that was put into the side of the Timorese is continually twisted by the people on the other side of the chamber. 
For many centuries Portugal was in charge of Timor. I happened to be there briefly and, as I have told the Senate previously, I wandered around the scrub, off the track, just a few months before the initial trouble commenced. One could see it coming. The Whitlam Government was in power when I walked around Timor with some young Timorese, visiting villages and so on. The Timorese could see the trouble coming, despite the fact that the Portuguese would not let them have political gatherings of any kind. They had no say in their administration. They could not gather or plan, or have any say in their own affairs. 
Despite this, the people of Timor could see something happening. They knew that trouble was coming. They would come to me and say: You are an Australian. You are our friends. We have no worries because Australia is going to look after us. ' Time and time again they said this, but what happened when the Labor Party was in government and Portugal withdrew suddenly putting the whole of East Timor into a state of limbo where there were no leaders, and from which the people had to sort themselves out? We had a disastrous civil war, as a result of which there were very many casualties. In this particular period, the Whitlam Government looked the other way. Yet here they have the audacity to say that others- the Fraser Government, the people of Australia- are to blame. It was the Whitlam Government that looked away, with its lack of guts or ability to realise that Australia owed a debt to the Timorese. The Timorese were let down. 
On 13 October 1976 I asked this question in the Senate. 
It has been reported in the  Canberra Times  and the  Australian  today that in a cable from the Australian Ambassador in Jakarta on 8 September this year it was mentioned that  Mr Whitlam  when Prime Minister was made fully aware by the Indonesian Government of its intentions to move into Timor to suppress, if necessary by force, and that  Mr Whitlam  indicated that he expressed the hope that any military action necessary could be taken as quickly as possible, which meant that if the killing of Timorese people were necessary, it should be done as quickly as possible. 
Those are the plain facts of the situation when the Opposition was in power. Yet Opposition senators today have the audacity and hypocrisy to claim immorality and so on. Their Government let the Timorese people down with the result that not only did the Timorese people kill themselves in civil war but also their country was invaded by Indonesia on that fateful day of 7 December. We know what happened then. I do not need to go through the details of that shameful period of history. I regret what happened, as does every Australian.. The whole situation in Timor changed on 7 December. Previously we had an Australian Government without guts and without the courage of its convictions to say: Here is a little neighbour alongside us which needs assistance. What can we do to help it?' Providing assistance did not mean supplying military aid. I believe that if Australia had made strong representations this whole mess and the massive killing of people would have been averted. Opposition senators say that there is immorality on the Government side of the Senate. I would say that they have blood on their hands because their leader did not have the guts to carry through his rightful responsibilities. Therefore let us have no more accusations from the Opposition. 
Let us look a little further at the situation. What could Australia do to endeavour to relieve the situation- to try to stop the killing of the poor innocent Timorese people. Peacock and Fraser who have been accused of remaining silent on the issue, went to the United Nations Security Council, a body of which Australia is not a member, to get the countries of the world to say as Australia did, that what Indonesia was doing was quite wrong. But Australia led a lone fight. No one wanted to come forward and be part of the deal at that time. As far as I can ascertain there was no assistance from any other country. Many countries looked the other way, as did  Mr Whitlam,  considered it was a fight in which they did not wish to be concerned. As a result the situation went from bad to worse. 
Australia made representations to Indonesia and endeavoured for humanitarian reasons to reunite the 2600 Timorese in this country with their families. They were given the option of going back to Timor, but I doubt whether any have. They would rather bring their relations and families to Australia to be reunited. Discussions took place, but we know, of course, that Indonesia did not concede very much. But in such a situation one has to be realistic. The Australian Government was realistic in its endeavours to get these people reunited. I have not heard a word from Opposition senators about reuniting families. Have honourable senators opposite ever been to Darwin and seen the evacuee camps? Have they ever seen the misery experienced by mothers with half a dozen children, children separated from parents or women whose husbands are still in East Timor? They are all here in Australia waiting to be reunited. How in the hell can they be reunited unless some effective action is taken? The only realistic action that can be taken is to realise that Indonesia has effective control of Timor. 
The Fraser Government does not condone what has happened in Timor, but it realises that the only way in which these people can be reunited is at least to recognise the fact that Indonesia has effective control of Timor. This is what has been done. The Fraser Government has acknowledged that fact. Now, following the presidential elections that took place a little while ago, Indonesia says that it is ready to renegotiate an arrangement concerning the reuniting of these families. I am somewhat of a doubting Thomas, but I hope that something will come of this. 
We also have the dreadful situation in which the International Red Cross has not been recognised in Timor. The only way in which aid can be given to the Timorese people is through the Indonesian Red Cross. We know full well that Australia has made contributions to the people of Timor. If I remember rightly $83,000 was contributed in October 1976 followed by $250,000 in December of that year. I think that is only a very small amount of money compared with the debt we owe to the Timorese. I do not know whether that money helped the Timorese people. But at least the Australian Government made another effort to try to relieve some of the misery and give medical help to these people. 
The Opposition has the shameless audacity today to propose that such a matter of public importance be discussed when it knows full well that this problem is the result of its actions. 
Or lack of them. If we espouse the rights of the individual, human rights and all these sorts of things I would suggest we should be done with a debate of this type in this chamber. It is a type of debate that can bring no good to the people who are living a life of misery. I suggest that we try other means. I would have no idea how the Timorese people can be relieved now that Indonesia has effective control of Timor. However, we have to find other means to assist these people. 
Before I conclude my remarks I would like to refer to a further question and answer which might give some guide to what Australia can do for Timor in the future. In February of this year I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  the following question: 
Does the Australian Government intend to continue its endeavours to assist the people or East Timor and their economy by offering financial and technological assistance to the Timorese in areas such as agriculture, fisheries and tourism? 
The answer given by  Senator Withers  on behalf of the Foreign Minister stated: 
In  my statement  of 20  January 1 978 I noted, inter alia, that the rehabilitation of Timor was an important ingredient in the practical contribution to the peace of the area. The statement also said that the humanitarian issues arising from the conflict in East Timor had been and remained a major concern of the Government. 
Accordingly, the Government would consider requests from the Indonesian authorities for economic assistance to East Timor. 
What I am saying is that what has needed to be done has been done. We cannot go back three years to when the trouble commenced. We must now look to the future because we still owe the Timorese people a debt. Surely parliaments as a whole can endeavour to assist them. The best way for us to make amends to the people of Timor is to put capital into fields such as fisheries, agriculture and tourism which will give the people a better way of life and perhaps help them in some very small way to rehabilitate following the civil war and the invasion they have experienced. 
I welcome the introduction of the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Amendment Bill. I must say that while listening to the previous  speaker, Senator Walsh,  I got a very dismal feeling of life. In fact his speech reminded me of the old poem  Around the Boree Log  which some honourable senators may have read. In that poem there was a farmer called Hanrahan and no matter what happened, no matter whether it was raining or sunny, Hanrahan said: 'We'll all be ruined before the day is out'. 
I beg your pardon,  Senator. The  poem goes: 'We'll all be ruined', said Hanrahan, 'before the year is out'. Thank goodness I have not the pessimism or the dismal thoughts of the previous  speaker.  This legislation, which is designed for the people of outback Australia, is something for which they have been looking for a long time. I congratulate the Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  said when introducing this legislation: 
Honourable senators will recall that the Prime Minister in the course of the last election campaign stated that prompt steps would be taken after the last election to implement a scheme which would subsidise freight differentials involved in transporting eligible petroleum products from refining ports and seaboard terminals to country sale points. These freight  costs  constitute a substantial element of the relatively high prices paid by rural consumers particularly in the more remote areas for various petroleum products. 
So in the first leg of the scheme we are going to see that people, no matter where they live in Australiaparticularly people in outback Australiawill pay no more than 4c a gallon towards the freight cost of petroleum products. To my mind this is the beginning of a continuing scheme. Sometime in the future we will see a reduction in this 4c a gallon which will make the situation even better for people in the outback. I am particularly concerned about the people in the outback. 
I think  Senator Walsh  gave scant attention to the principles behind this Bill. The principles relate not to the people on the seaboard but to those in the outback where the quality of life or the quality of living has been much more difficult in the last few years. This legislation follows the recognition by this Government of the difficulties and the high costs being experienced in those areas. 
These people have not always been in the situation of having to pay considerably more for their fuel than is paid in the cities. I think back prior to 1973 when a Liberal-National Country Party government had a similar scheme. I can assure honourable senators that the scheme in those days was extremely beneficial to the people. But in 1972-73, when the Whitlam Government came to power, there was a review of the scheme.  Dr Coombs  was appointed by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  to report to him on where his Government could make savings. This report is available. One of the recommendations in the report was that the fuel subsidy scheme that benefited people in the outback so much should be removed. It was removed by ministerial action and overnight the people of the outback began to pay more and more as prices started to escalate. Freight costs were compounded. Then, instead of people paying some threepence or fourpence a gallon more than the city dweller, freight costs increased and that differential went up and up. 

 Senator Walsh read out the names of many different towns. But they are on the seaboard. He gave scant attention to towns in the outback. I can assure him and any other person that these days in the outback one will often pay $1.20 or more a gallon in a lot of places. 
That brings me to what I refer to as the quality of life. Despite the modern methods and the various gadgets that people have in the cities and despite the fact that their transport systems are heavily subsidised- I think they cost the taxpayer $240m or $250m a year- there has been no benefit to the people in the outback. Moving through the outback, as I do continually, I see the continuing hardship. As I have already said the quality of life of the family in the outback has deteriorated. It has deteriorated for various reasons. I can assure the Senate that one of those reasons has been the increase in fuel prices. 
Consider the position of a family living on an Aboriginal settlement or a pastoral station out in the bush. At Ayers Rock petrol costs well over $ 1 a gallon. At settlements on the northern coast of Australia transportation costs from Darwin make fuel extremely expensive. This is why fuel in Gove and other places is so costly. What has this additional cost of fuel done to the outback? I believe it has stopped development to quite a degree. We are talking about petroleum products generally; not just motor spirit but also aviation gasoline and various other fuels. Because of the cost of these products the cost of living and the cost of operating in the outback have become extremely high. I believe that this situation is having a marked effect on the population of the outback. 
Madam Deputy President, we are becoming more and more aware of the defence and surveillance needs of the north. Surely one positive way of overcoming some of the difficulties in the surveillance and defence of our scantily populated northern coastline and the outback is to encourage people back into the outback. This measure will not produce a miracle but it is an answer that will go quite a long way to encourage people back into the outback. This will help the development of population. I say that this measure will help surveillance of the north immeasurably. 1 believe that this Bill to amend the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Act 1 965 which permits the Minister to formulate a scheme in relation to a State and also to revoke a scheme and where a scheme has been so revoked, to formulate a new scheme in place of the scheme so revoked, provides a safeguard. Proposed section 4 (2) states: 
Except as authorised by a resolution of each House of the Parliament, the Minister shall not revoke or otherwise terminate the operation of, a scheme formulated under paragraph (I ) (a) or (dj, whether or not the scheme has been amended. 
That is a very wise provision. It has been inserted specifically to protect such a scheme in the future. 
We have seen before a scheme revoked through ministerial action. Under this Bill, no Minister and no government can revoke a scheme to the detriment of the people of the outback. The only way it can be revoked is by a resolution of both Houses of Parliament. I believe that this is an essential safeguard. I am not prepared to see a repetition of what has happened before, which brought so much hardship to the people of the outback. 
Complementary legislation will have to be passed by the Parliaments of the various States and of the Northern Territory to bring the scheme into being. It is most interesting to note that on 2 March 1977 the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly passed the necessary legislation. I believe this action is indicative of the feelings of the people of the outback- of their keenness and desire to participate in this scheme. Already, the legislation has been passed in the Northern Territory. Now, with the passing of this Bill in the Senate and the House of Representatives the legislation will come into being. If one looks at the registration of the people who will be appointed by the Minister to administer the powers authorised in the Bill, one sees that any person who is refused registration by the Minister as an administrator will have the right of appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. 
I welcome this legislation. It is one of the few pieces of legislation that I have seen in this House which will have so much benefit for the people of the outback. Far too often when governments and people think of Australia they think of the heavily populated areas along the coast which  Senator Walsh  just a few minutes ago described. But this measure does not apply to them; it applies to the people of the outback. I congratulate the Government for moving so speedily upon its electoral promise to introduce this scheme. Madam  Deputy President  the honourable senator opposite may not receive the Bill with good grace but I can assure you that the people to whom this scheme will apply will receive it most gratefully. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport been drawn to advertisements for a reduced air fare by East- West Airlines on the Sydney-Alice Springs route? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the background and purpose of this fare reduction? Can it be anticipated that other airlines will follow suit by reducing their fares to afford some further relief to the people of the Northern Territory? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. It was reported in the  Weekend Australian  of 8 and 9 April that the uranium industry may not have the enormous potential that miners and the Federal Government are predicting. This follows a report that Exxon Nuclear in the United States of America has been carrying out research in the area of laser enrichment which, it is reported, could revolutionise the nuclear industry. Is the Minister in a position to advise us as to whether there is any basis for the report, whether Australia is included in such research and whether it is possible that the speculation as reported could bring about a slump in demand for Australian uranium? 
As the hour is very late I shall detain the Senate for only a few minutes. I wish to refer to the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, an organisation created by this Parliament. The reason I bring up this subject at this late hour is that today in Darwin the winding up meeting of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission was held. The Commission has been ably chaired by  Mr Clem  Jones, a former Australian Labor Party Lord Mayor of Brisbane. As  Chairman  of the DRC  Mr Clem  Jones has done a tremendous job. In its first report the DRC said: 
There is no doubt that cyclone 'Tracy' was the most destructive cyclone to strike a populated part of the Australian coast. None other has caused damage of the same magnitude. 
It went on to say that the power of the cyclone was gauged to be up to 275 kilometres per hour. In its introduction the report states: 
In the early hours of December 25, 1974, a small but exceptionally intense cyclone, codenamed 'Tracy' passed slowly and directly across the City of Darwin. The destruction it caused was the worst suffered by an Australian city. It was turned into a ruin; dislocated, without essential services; its survivors shocked, bereaved and mostly lacking even basic shelter; the majority of the population had to be evacuated and the life of the city was completely dislocated. Between 50 per cent and 60 per cent of its 1 1,000 or so houses and flats were damaged beyond repair with only a  few hundred left more or less intact. Before the cyclone, Darwin was a vigorous, growing city with a population of about 48,000. 
Immediately the Australian Government, which was then the Labor Government, took action to set up the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, which received the full support of Parliament. The work that it carried out was completed in some three and a half years- although the Parliament estimated that it would take five years. Nearly 3,000 houses were built by the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, which averages out at the rate of some 2.5 houses a day. The Federal Government spent about $300m on housing and the rebuilding of hospitals, schools and the various services. I suggest that private enterprise would have spent about $ 100m to $200m. 
The people who have been associated with the Darwin Reconstruction Commission-  Mr Clem  Jones, the present chairman; the Minister in the Labor Government,  Dr Patterson;  the present Minister for the Northern Territory,  Mr Evan  Adermann; and very many other people- are to be commended. Not only is the Darwin Reconstruction Commission to be commended but also the people of Darwin, the various government authorities and, not least, the building industry. As I said, the hour is late, but today saw the end of a most efficient organisation that brought about the reconstruction of Darwin. Although it still has visible scars and some invisible scars, Darwin has now been rebuilt. It is a modern city. I think that any Australian would be proud to be associated with the move for its reconstruction. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Following the winding up of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission and the impetus given to the reconstruction of Darwin, the building industry after giving invaluable service is now tottering on the brink of economic disintegration. I ask the Minister: Now that the Government has indicated its intention to develop uranium in the north, will building of the uranium town as envisaged in the Fox report commence shortly so as to utilise the well organised construction industry in the area before it is wound up either voluntarily or through financial collapse? If so, will the Government be responsible for financing construction of the new uranium town? If not, how will it be financed? If it is the responsibility of government, what government authority will be responsible for the construction of the township? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Last week there was a report in the media that Aboriginal child mortality had increased in the Northern Territory in the last calendar year from 50 deaths to 75 deaths per 1,000 children. This has brought a spate of opinions from many experts. In view of this report regarding child mortality, can the Minister give further information as to what the authorities recognise as the problems and what action has been taken in an effort to reduce the number of deaths each year? Will the Minister advise the Senate of the cause of these deaths and whether the deaths are more pronounced in certain areas? If so, will the Minister give full information covering, say, the last 10 years? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. There is considerable concern in many areas of the Northern Territory community that developmental work in the so-called uranium province of the Northern Territory may be held up to such a degree that most necessary work may not be carried out this 'dry', the 'dry' being from now until about November. As the Commonwealth Government is responsible under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act to negotiate agreement with the Aboriginal Northern Land Council and as it is a partner in the Ranger project, what action is being taken to resolve the existing problems and to bring about the commencement of work? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs.  Mr Justice  Toohey, the Aboriginal Land Commissioner, completed the Borroloola land inquiry some months ago and I understand a report has been made to the Government. As this inquiry has brought about considerable public interest, particularly in the Northern Territory, is the Minister able to indicate to the Senate whether it is the intention of the Government to make comment on the report and/or to table it in both Houses of Parliament? If so, when? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing either the Minister for Primary Industry or the Minister for the Northern Territory. The Katherine meatworks is an abattoir situated in the bluetongue endemic area in the Northern Territory. It did not commence the killing season on 1 April. Because of lack of turnoff of cattle, many pastoralists in the area are in poor financial circumstances. With this in mind, can the Minister advise of the present situation at the Katherine meatworks? Has the abattoir commenced killing? Have the management and the meat workers come to an agreement? If not, what is the present situation and when may an agreement be reached? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 3 April 1 978: 
1 ) What was the tonnage of Australian beef exports in 1977. 
2 ) How much beef was exported and to which countries. 
What is the anticipated tonnage of Australian beef exports in 1978. 
How much beef is expected to be exported, and to which countries. 
What is the projected tonnage of Australian beef exports for 1979. 
How much beef is expected to be exported, and to which countries. 
What firms are participating in the quota system, and what quotas have been allocated to each firm. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Today's  Australian  reports that the Indonesian  President,  General Suharto, has agreed to International Red Cross teams visiting Timor, which statement must be received with considerable acclaim. In view of this move, has the Minister any further information regarding the present situation of Timor refugees in Australia being permitted to reunite with their families still in Timor? If the information is not to hand, will the Minister advise the Senate at a convenient time? 
It is not my intention today to make a farewell speech to  Senator Wright.  I appreciate, from listening to him this afternoon, the wisdom and experience that he has brought to the Senate. I am sure that when the honourable senator retires at the end of his term in two or three weeks, the Parliament and Australia will miss his wisdom and experience. I doubt that it will be replaced. The point that the honourable senator made about governing by regulation certainly interested me. I have been one of those unfortunates living in the Northern Territory who have experienced this type of government over the years. Very soon we will be moving away from that type of government. I hope that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly will do the right thing and govern mainly by ordinance and not by regulation. Executive government has always had a tendency to govern by regulation. That is where the bureaucracy, to some degeree. can get out of hand. I appreciated the remarks that  Senator Wright  made. He also made a good point regarding the power base in the legislation that we are discussing. He believes it is fragmented. Once again, I respect his experience and his thoughts on the matter. 
I support the legislation. It is unfortunate that 1 was absent from the Senate yesterday and could not speak on other legislation. 1 was thankful to  Senator Keeffe  for showing so much interest in my movements. I thought that it was kind of him to inquire of my whereabouts. I am sorry that he did not inquire of my health. People in the Northern Territory see the development of uranium quite differently from the way in which people in other parts of Australia see it. Many people in Australia think that we are on the threshold of making a decision to mine and develop uranium. There has been tremendous debate on the matter, there have been the reports by  Mr Justice  Fox and there has been constant discussion on how and when we will commence developing uranium. Those of us who have lived in the Northern Territory for a while realise that Australia has been developing and mining uranium for a long time. In the 1950s the development and mining of uranium commenced at Rum Jungle. The way in which the open cut was developed is nothing to be proud of. Perhaps there was a lack of experience in those days. The way in which mining was developed in those days with undue care being taken in the handling of basic metals- I am not talking about uranium- resulted in the deterioration of the country and pollution of the river. The river practically died but now, after so many years, it is gradually coming back to life. An occasional fish can be caught there. 
Yes, $300,000 has been spent cleaning it up. From experience over the years we have learned what not to do. Certain things should be done when developing a mine, whether it be for copper, zinc, lead or any other mineral including uranium. 
Uranium was mined in places other than Rum Jungle which is near Batchelor about 65 to 75 miles south of Darwin. A rich little deposit of uranium was developed over the years at Moline out from Pine Creek. That uranium has been expended. It has been sold overseas. Of course the Mary Kathleen mine in the western part of Queensland is still struggling along, going from one financial crisis to another. However, the fact is that the mine has remained alive. It is from these various sources of uranium that have been mined over the years that Australia is now fulfilling its contracts. We must appreciate the fact that Australia has been selling uranium for quite a while. 
I will not make a big thing about my next point. I refer to 28 October 1975- the Australian Labor Party was in power at the time- when it was decided that uranium should be developed with the participation of the Australian Government. A memorandum of understanding was signed. The Australian Government actually became a partner in the Ranger uranium mine. This is not news; it is old hat. The Government put in 72'/i per cent of the money for the development of Ranger and will get 50 per cent of the proceeds. This is what the game is all about at the moment. We are waiting for the Government to go to the directors' tables at Ranger, Jabiru, and to have discussions with the Northern Land Council and other interested people in order to reach agreement so that the mine at Ranger, Jabiru, can start mining uranium as quickly as possible to fulfil the contracts that the Australian Government made a few years ago. I saw a photostat of the agreement. If I remember correctly, it was signed not only by the directors of the Peko/EZ group but also by  Mr Whitlam, Mr Connor  and  Dr Cairns.  It confuses me considerably how the Labor Government could have made these arrangements when these days members of the Labor Party make so much noise about not mining uranium. Perhaps I have a simple mind. 1 am confused at what the game is all about. 
I respect the viewpoint of  Senator Haines. Senator Haines,  who is not present in the chamber at the moment, is one of those very genuine people who have fears about the development of uranium, and we must respect that. Some other people who do not want to see the development of uranium have views which I do not respect. They have feelings akin to those of left wing countries at which we look at times with some suspicion. These countries, which the people to whom I have referred follow so enthusiastically, are seeking and mining uranium. However, the same people do not want uranium mined in Australia. That is another matter that confuses me. Perhaps I have a simple mind. Once again I cannot understand it. 1 was referring it)  Senator Haines.  I certainly do not intend lecturing her. It is a difficult situation. 
I refer again to the Northern Territory where a vast amount of radon gas is escaping from the earth. This has happened at Jabiru and it is one of the problems that will have to be overcome by environmental control. South of Darwin there are springs of warm water such as Berry Springs. Douglas Hot Springs and Howard Springs. The water in the springs is warm. In some areas of those springs the water is extremely hot. 1 understand that that is caused by radon gas by radioactivity. It is result of natural leaks and people have been experiencing the effects for years. Another such area is Springvale Station which has one of the oldest homesteads existing in the Northern Territory. It is on the banks of the Katherine River. I think the construction of the homestead was commenced by Goss who was an explorer of outback Australia and a very wellknown character in earlier days. I think it was in about 1880 or 1890 that he developed this station property. People have lived near this spring for very many years and it was only in the last four or five years- it may be less- that an extremely high radioactivity count was found in the area. The Geiger counter went mad. The operator of the counter had to shift from one guage to the other so that the radioactivity could be counted. 
All I am saying is that we should not get too excited about this situation. People have been exposed to radioactivity for years. Children and adults have been living near radioactive springs for many years, perhaps up to 100 years. I have very many friends living at Batchelor, one mile from Rum Jungle, who have worked and lived in this uranium area. They actually mined uranium- I am going back 20 years- when the potential danger was not realised. They mined uranium under very casual conditions and were exposed to radioactivity, yet to me they seem to be very healthy people. Even so I recognise that there is a danger. 

 Senator Haines also mentioned that she was concerned about the potential danger of nuclear weapons being used by terrorists. That may happen but we must admit that since the wheel was designed and brought into use, and since we began using coal, fossil fuels and so on, terrorists also have been able to use such energy. Millions of people have been killed as a result of the use of fossil fuels. I do not suppose we could count the number of people who have died as a result of the development of the use of coal. Think of the industrial revolution. People have died as a result of dust on the lungs, mining shafts collapsing and so on. The point is that we should not develop in our minds this tremendous fear that uranium is the metal that will bring about this horror of terrorist activity. It has always been present with the development of industry and the development of mining. lt is with some regret that I missed the earlier contributions to this debate. I will be saying very little today because I wish to discuss other matters, particularly those relating to the Northern Territory, when we get to much more controversial Bills relating to the NT which, naturally, is my particular interest. However I have made one or two notes on the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill 1978. This Bill seeks to broaden the principal Act so that the Atomic Energy Commission can participate in the Ranger project and so that uranium mining can proceed under that Act. That is reasonable. For this purpose the power to grant mining licences pursuant to regulations under the Act is to be expanded. Therefore we will have to consider the regulations. Northern Territory laws are to be preserved to the extent that they are capable of operating concurrently with the Act and regulations thereunder. The powers of the Commission are to be extended to include minerals found in association with uranium. While all the news is about uranium I would point out that there are some very hefty gold deposits associated with the uranium deposits. Gold could be mined and developed in its own right in particular areas. 
The Government has not accepted the recommendation of the report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry that the Atomic Energy Act should not be used as a vehicle for uranium mining in the Northern Territory. The second reading speech of the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  referred only to mining of the Ranger deposit but the Act could be used to cover the mining of prescribed substances elsewhere. The Bill appears to leave intact the Northern Territory mining ordinance and the rights acquired under it. I believe that the Northern Territory has to participate in the development of uranium and under this legislation it will participate. To my mind this development is not controversial. 
The Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill 1978 purports to provide uniformity in all States and Territories. Under that Bill the Commonwealth Minister must cause codes of practice regulating or controlling all nuclear activity in Australia, including mining, processing, transport, acquisition and disposal, to be sent to all State Ministers and to the Northern Territory Minister for their comments. The GovernorGeneral may approve the codes but they are subject to disallowance by the Commonwealth Parliament. When the Governor-General, after a date fixed by him, is of the opinion that State or Territory laws do not make adequate provisions for regulating or controlling nuclear activities, regulations under the Bill may be made to give effect to the Commonwealth code in that State or 
Territory.  Senator Wright  sees some problems in that regard and I think the Government could well take note of his criticism. The Bill also gives the Commonwealth Minister, by order of the Governor-General, wide powers of action to control and eliminate hazards resulting from nuclear activity where existing laws are inadequate. 
As far as the Northern Territory is concerned, it appears that this Bill would not prevent the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory from passing any necessary laws relating to nuclear activity. It may, however, be necessary to revise current legislative proposals presently being drafted in the light of the proposed code sent by the Commonwealth Minister to the Northern Territory Minister because 1 July 1978 is the date when the Northern Territory gets responsible self-government and takes over all State-like responsibilities except health and education. 
I wish to comment briefly on one other point. Perhaps it is rather a simple proposition and perhaps it may not apply. When one looks at the development and sale of uranium these days one must remember that Australia ratified the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons on 23 January 1973. The treaty is a most important international instrument. Australia has also drawn up safeguards that I understand will be applied. The safeguards are what might be called a code of ethics and the Australian Government will only sell uranium to countries that measure up to it. It seems to me that if we, as a selling country, accept these responsibilities, the United Nations should participate also and that countries that wish to be clients of Australia should be investigated by the United Nations. This would mean that countries that want our uranium but which are refused access to it because of our code would not be placed in a difficult situation. They would not lose face. I believe that a lot of the countries which are going to buy from Australia are the Third World countriesthe developing countries- which are going to look to Australia for assistance in various ways. Difficulties are going to arise in the sale of our uranium. Not only are we going to be the seller of uranium; in respect of the use of uranium we are also going to be a judge of the morals of the countries to which we sell the uranium. 
It seems to me that if the suggestion put by the Opposition were accepted it would place Australia in a situation in which we would be looked upon as being a country with a small population putting itself above other countries and endeavouring to tell these countries what they shall and shall not do. lt appears to me that we should be able to achieve a much smoother operation than that envisaged. Whilst we recognise that we should sell only to countries which measure up to the high ideals we set for our clients, perhaps the vetting of prospective clients should be done by a United Nations agency. That would leave Australia and the client free to arrange a sale on a straight out seller-client basis. 
As I have said, I support the legislation. Today I have issued a new statement.  Senator Keeffe  seems to be most interested in what I have been doing in the past two days. Yes, I was a passenger in a certain aircraft. The statement which I released today relates to actions which are being taken now with respect to the uranium Bills which are before the Senate. The statement relates to negotiations which have been taking place between representatives of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, the Northern Land Council and the Federal Government.  Mr President,  I seek leave to have this statement incorporated in  Hansard.  Unfortunately, it has not been circulated; no one has seen it. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources aware of Press reports today of a study which apparently warns of a risk to Australian uranium exports? Can he say what is the present situation in regard to the discussions on financial arrangements for the Ranger project currently taking place between the Commonwealth Government and the Northern Land Council? 
Usually I am rather reluctant to join in debates in this Parliament concerning the Australian Aboriginal people. The matter of public importance reads: 
The need for a clear declaration of Government policy on granting to Aboriginals and Islanders inalienable title to their traditional lands. 
I am rather reluctant to speak today because once again as far as I can see, this debate is just political mud-slinging and flag waving, using the Aboriginal people as a political football. I regret this because I think that if anything can be done for the Aboriginal people, it would be much better if we took the issue out of the political sphere, abandoned the mud-slinging and excluded the people who get on the Aboriginal's back as we are seeing here today. 
On reading the terms of the matter of public importance, one would have expected that the debate would encompass all the Aboriginal people of Australia, the problems before them and so on. But all we have heard today from the Opposition has been directed along Queensland lines. All we have heard has been the hatred of the Opposition to the Queensland Government and its actions. 
I am indicating, senator, exactly how you are using the Senate today and using the Aboriginal people for flag-waving purposes. I freely admit that I know very little about the Queensland situation, other than what I read and what I hear. I should certainly like to go to Queensland to look at these things-- 
I do not go to Queensland at this particular time, senator, because the same situation exists in the Northern Territory. The situation in the Northern Territory is that the Aboriginal people there have been absolutely bombarded by visits from people and even if they wished to live in an isolated community, in a quiet community they could not. This is one reason why I have not gone to Queensland to join the queue that keeps rushing up there and rushing back. If one were to sit down and listen to the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory, one would find that they would say- I presume the Queensland Aboriginal people would say the same thing- 'Why can you not leave us alone? Leave us alone because our heads are going boom boom. All we have day after day are the whirly-winds coming in and out in aeroplanes, ships and boats'. So I think it would be very good advice if, for a change, we took some note of the Aboriginal people and their request to live a quiet life rather than have a continuation of this mud-slinging, hot debatewhether it be in the Press, in the Parliament or in other places- at the expense of the Aboriginal people. 
It is getting some bites from the other side of the House. Obviously it is having some effect. I shall now talk briefly of the Northern Territory. After examining the Government's policy which has been expressed and after listening to the debate today, I would say that the Government's policy in regard to Aboriginal people has been carried out well and truly. 
The land rights system was introduced in the Northern Territory following the Woodward report and following the passing of the legislation by the Parliament. There is no doubt that the Aboriginal people own a considerable amount of land in the Northern Territory. It will be their land forever. It may be of some interest to trace the history of land ownership by Aboriginals in the Northern Territory. The first body in Australia to take action to give land rights to the Aboriginal people was the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I have indicated previously that under a particular clause of the Crown Lands Ordinance of the Territory, land rights for Aboriginal people were introduced. Admittedly, they were introduced in a small way but this was the beginning. We then saw the walk out at Wave Hill, and the Government granted land to Vincent Lingiart and his people at Wattie Creek. 
At least 40 per cent of the land in the Northern Territory, and probably more, belongs to the Aboriginal people. The Northern Territory has a land mass of about 540,000 square miles. The land is owned by the Aboriginals in various ways. Firstly the large reserves in the Northern Territory have been retained for the use of Aboriginal people for many years. I refer to Arnhem Land, Bathurst and Melville Islands, the area near Port Keats, the Daly River area and, in the southern part of the Territory, Haasts Bluff, Ayers Rock, the Musgrave Ranges and the Docker River area. Those vast areas have been earmarked for the Aboriginal people for some decades. They are now owned by the Aboriginal people. 
I should like to refer to some other important aspects of this matter today so that people will know just what is going on in regard to land ownership and the continuing granting of land to Aboriginal people.  Mr Justice  Toohey, the Land Commissioner in the Northern Territory, has heard many claims by Aboriginal tribes. The Borroloola land claim has been completed and he is now examining the Tanami land claim. After that, he will hear many more land claims. Land that has been Commonwealth landCrown land and land held in the form of wildlife reserves- is being claimed by the Aboriginals. These land claims are being heard. There is no doubt that one can expect a continued granting of land to the Aboriginal people by the Government. But there is more to this matter. Pastoral leases in the Northern Territory have been acquired for Aboriginal people- for their clans and their tribes. Several cattle stations have been purchased in the last few years. Money has been made available through the Aboriginal Land Trust Fund or by grants from the Commonwealth Government. 
If honourable senators are particularly interested in this aspect, they can refer to a question asked by  Senator Teehan  a couple of weeks ago and to the answer that he was given.  His  question related to this aspect of Aboriginal land ownership. The situation is that Aboriginal people can buy a viable cattle station, which may have an area of 800, 1 ,000 or 2,000 square miles. Having purchased that land, the Aborigines can then make application to the Land Commissioner for it to become Aboriginal land. At the expiration of the lease the application would be heard. It would be expected that, if the application were successful, the commercial pastoral lease would become Aboriginal land in perpetuity. So, again, there is a continuing ownership of land by the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory. Then, of course, we could go further. We have been talking about what the government is doing for Aboriginal people. 
The next type of land to which I should like to refer is that which is being acquired by governments for fringe dwellers of the towns. There have been many Press reports about fringe dwellers. Some of them have been accurate and some have been inaccurate. The theme has been that the fringe dwellers- the Aboriginal people who are now coming in from various areas to live around the towns in the Northern Territoryhave no camping area and nowhere to build their homes. Let me use Alice Springs as an example. It has been agreed by the Council, the Government, the people who live in the town- whether they are white or black- and the Aboriginal people who have come to look for a place to live, that permanent leases should be granted in various areas in the town. I think some 12 to 14 leases have been granted. That land will be held by them in perpetuity and the people will not have to move out as soon as the town grows. They will have their land for camping and for dwellings. They will be able to live as clans and tribes when they move into those areas. 
In some instances housing associations are building houses and in others, Aboriginals are using the area for camping. The Government is providing water, health, toilet and shower facilities and shelters. Now the Aboriginals own this land. As I said earlier, this practice will continue and the Aborigines will accumulate more and more land. I believe that the Aboriginal people are in a fortunate situation, because they receive a preference to people who own pastoral leases. I suggest that, instead of the Opposition continuing to harangue the Parliament about the Aboriginal people, we should get down to tin-tacks and take note of some of the reports that have been received by the Senate. 
I should like to speak about Aboriginal health. As there is only one minute left of my debating time I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which indicates the child mortality rates in the Northern Territory from 1965 to 1977. The table has been seen by honourable senators on both sides of the Senate. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="077232197805243_27_0.jpg"></graphic>

This document indicates that the infant mortality rate in 1965 was 142 per 1,000 and in 1977 it was 74 per 1,000. If the people in this Parliament are genuine, let us work on that particular aspect of the Aboriginal people. 
Of course it comes out of the Budget in various areas. 
That is absolute nonsense. When one lives amongst the Aboriginal people and sees what is being done for them, one realises that they certainly are thankful. They would laugh at the thought that their budget has been cut to ribbons. That is far from correct. The Aboriginal people deserve the service that is being given to them now. I am sure that the Government will continue that service. Let us pull together and do something for the people instead of flag waving, as we are doing today. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 12 April 1978: 
Have any further unauthorised aircraft entered Australian airspace, particularly North-Australian airspace, since the entry and subsequent forced landing of an aircraft laden with illegal drugs at Katherine, Northern Territory, in February 1 978; if so, what are the details. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. On the radio program  AM  this morning there was a report that the  chairman  of Pancontinental Mining Ltd has asked the Government to intervene in the financial talks between Pancontinental and the Northern Land Council with regard to uranium development and that that Council has now said that in view of this action it is unlikely that Pancontinental will be able to commence work at an early date. Will the Minister inquire into the matter and advise the Senate, because if the report is correct it could smack of intimidation and would require the intervention of the Government? Under the Northern Territory Aboriginal Land Rights Act has an arbitrator yet been appointed to review disputes? 

 - Senator Mulvihill said that I had hinted at a breakdown in communications- they were not quite the words he used- between the National Parks and Wildlife Service and the Northern Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission. I did not hint at that situation arising. I want to make a brief explanation. What I said, insofar as the Northern Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission is concerned, is that it is about time that outside influences got off the back of the Northern Territory because it is growing up and can look after itself.  Senator Cavanagh  misled the Committee- I must correct him- when he said that there is a difference of opinion between the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and the Aboriginal people. This is the sort of story that the Opposition likes to foster but the fact is that that is quite incorrect. 
The situation with regard to the legislation that is complementary to the Aboriginal Land Rights Act is that details of that legislation have been circulated among the Aboriginal people. Because the Aboriginal leader, Galarrwuy Yunupingu, has indicated that he needs more time to look at that legislation he has been given that time. That is an indication of the liaison that has been developed between the Majority 
Leader of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, Paul Everingham, and the Aboriginal people. It is quite incorrect to say that there is a difference of opinion between the Aboriginal people and the Legislative Assembly. This story has been fostered by the Opposition. I suggest that we should do nothing here to try to break the union that has developed very well. Insofar as the membership of the Co-ordinating Committee is concerned, I state once again that the discussions in Darwin were three-sided. The Government took part. Northern Territory interests- that is, the Executive,  Mr Calder  and I- took part. The  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council, Galarrwuy Yunupingu, and all his advisers also were present. We came to a unanimous decision. All parties were happy with the conclusion reached. I see no reason why a unanimous decision which has been reached in Darwin should be altered here. 
I do not want to continue a running commentary but I want to clear the air. As I have said before, there is rapport between the Majority Leader of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and the Aboriginal people. I could well imagine that there is a clause here or there in the complementary legislation that requires adjustment. As the doors are wide open to the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council and as there is agreement between him and the Majority Leader, I suggest that that matter should be taken up there. I see absolutely no reason why the discussion of complementary legislation should be undertaken in Canberra. It is not our responsibility. I think it would be a very good idea if we were to leave the Territory to the Territorians and let them work it out. The Commonwealth Government should stay in the Federal sphere and let the States and Territories resolve matters in their own spheres. 
As far as representation on the Co-ordinating Committee is concerned, who said that the Minister will nominate particular people, white or black? Who said that the Legislative Assembly will nominate two white people? I suggest that we should leave the Territory alone and let it find its own way out. In these discussions it was the suggestion of the Majority Leader and me that the Northern Land Council should be represented. As this body develops, it will be found that there is more than one Aboriginal person on it. 
I have, and always have had, regard for  Senator Cavanagh  's attitude towards the Aboriginal people, and to the responsibilities that he had when he was Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, but he should realise that the attitude he is now taking stamps him as living in the past. Times are changing. When he speaks of a sell-out to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, he should realise that that Assembly represents the people of the Northern Territory; that from 1 July it will, in its own right, have control of the Territory. I regret that  Senator Cavanagh  should have continued to adopt that frame of mind.  His  attitude to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and to the people of the Territory is divisive. 
Ours is now a Territory approaching statehood. We are responsible for our own land and must not think in terms of white and black. We must think of ourselves as the people of the Northern Territory regardless of colour. Let us not be paternal. Let us recognise that times are changing; that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly represents the people of the Territory as a whole. I look forward to the day, which I believe is coming, when we shall see more and more participation by Aboriginal people in the government of the Northern Territory. That is certainly to be encouraged. I see nothing wrong with this situation at all. Earlier I did, in that the Federal Parliament was being paternal towards the Northern Territory. It had not realised that times were changing. The Territory has a right to have a say in these matters. It will have it, and when I speak of the people of the Northern Territory I speak of them all, white and black together. 

 - Senator. Cavanagh's remarks are still divisive. There is absolutely no argument in the Northern Territory that this piece of country that we are talking about, the Kakadu National Park, belongs to the Aboriginal people. Under the current situation the Aboriginal people have leased it as a national park to an organisation that is running it as such. It is Aboriginal country that has been leased as a national park to this organisation. It is quite proper that the people of the Territory, both black and white, participate in the running of this organisation. Earlier the people of the Northern Territory had no say whatsoever because this was a federal matter. Now the people of the Northern Territory have a say in the running of the park. The Aboriginal people are participating in the day to day running of the park. They are having a say and they are consulting with this organisation to which they have leased the land under the arrangement proposed by the Fox report. 
Surely this matter has been pursued enough. I believe that  Senator Cavanagh  is endeavouring to create a situation which splits black and white. 
He has to accept the fact that the situation is now changing. As far as I am concerned the people of the Northern Territory are neither black nor white- they are people of the Northern Territory and we should leave it at that. 
I wish to draw the attention of the Committee to the fact that, whilst we are now talking about the Opposition's amendment as it relates to the plan of management, the  Chairman  of the Aboriginal Land Council now participates in relation to this aspect. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 1 1. 
Section 16 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting paragraph (a) of sub-section ( 1 ) and substituting the following paragraph: 
to administer, manage and control parks, reserves and conservation zones; '. 
I respect  Senator Melzer's  opinions- obviously they are her own. Having heard the various statements she has made over the past three quarters of an hour, all of which state that uranium mining should not take place, I should like to ask her one or two questions. Of course, she cannot answer them now, but no doubt some time in the future she will do so. I think that some of the statements she made are totally incorrect. From the statements she has made today, I wonder where she stands with respect to the Australian Labor Party policy. 
She says that she knows it better than I do, and no doubt she does. First of all, I must point out that the development of uranium mining in Australia was first proposed when Labor was in power. We went through this last week. We pointed out that the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  who was the then Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  who was the then Treasurer and  Mr Connor,  who was the then Minister for Minerals and Energy, made an agreement with Peko Mines Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltd and other people for the development and the ultimate sale of uranium. This agreement was made some time ago when people knew less about uranium than they do now. I think it is a very odd situation, to say the least, that during a debate such as this honourable senators opposite come into the chamber crying poor when some years ago- as I said, when people knew less about uranium than they do now- they were looking for the riches. 
I am all for safeguarding the environment. I come from the Northern Territory and, with one or two exceptions, I support the Bills which are before us, namely, the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill, the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill and the Environment Protection (Northern Territory Supreme Court) Bill. I am concerned about one or two aspects of the legislation. I was interested to hear  Senator Melzer's  comments about destroying the environment- the animals, the people, et cetera. We heard at length about these issues. Obviously  Senator Melzer  is very interested in the Kakadu National Park, as I am. I compare my attitude with hers and state that not only am I interested in the Northern Territory but also am I interested in Australia and the various parts of Australia. 
I draw  Senator Melzer's  attention to a project which I understand was announced in Victoria within the past few weeks. I think the project will cost $ 1,000m. I refer to the development of the Loy-yam coalfields in Gippsland. This area contains many cities- Morwell and others. Victorians tell me that this is one of the most beautiful areas in the world. At least it is that in their eyes. The open cut system of coal mining will engulf the area, which covers some 15 miles by 8 miles. Where are the critics of this project which will scar and destroy the area. 
The honourable senator says that it is not a national park. I do not think that is the issue. It is a case of destroying country which the honourable senator has very ably described. Why is it that  Senator Melzer,  with her strong feelings, has not been an opponent in this Parliament or elsewhere of the development in Victoria which has resulted in the resumption of some of the richest pastoral country in Victoria? 
The honourable senator can say: 'Oh, come on', I am making a very valid comparison. Why is it- I exclude the honourable senator from the expression I am about to use- that the 'greenies' are concentrating on the Northern Territory- the area in which, naturally, uranium will be mined- and ignoring the other parts of Australia where immense projects which are to take place will destroy the environment and may result in ill-effects for the communities near those projects. At least we know what effect coal mining has had throughout history on the various places where it has been mined. Why do we not hear people speaking - 
I am making the point that I have great difficulty in accepting some of the criticisms that have been levelled at the Kakadu National Park. 

 - Senator Mulvihill is shouting his head off. He has made one speech. He is now making a second speech; so he is out of order. Much has been said about the mining of uranium and the haste in the development of the uranium areas in Australia today. Can anyone really criticise the uranium package that was introduced into Parliament several months ago? It is a very complex and complete plan of action in which the environment is safeguarded and in which the mining and development of uranium is safeguarded. I suppose it would be true to say that the safeguards that the Australian Government has introduced for the mining and development of uranium would be the most advanced of any country in the world. 
The honourable senator obviously has visited various parts of the uranium province. She has cited what happened at Rum Jungle as a good reason why uranium mining should not take place. We know full well that lessons have been learnt in regard to the mining at Rum Jungle. In fact, I referred to this matter two or three weeks ago. There is no excuse for what happened at Rum Jungle. There is no excuse for the way in which mining has been carried out in other parts of the country. What really happened there was that there was a casual approach to the mining of uranium but the uranium itself did not cause damage to the country or pollute the streams. The base metals were allowed to be eroded away by the tropical rains that leached them into the river and into the ground. That situation is being corrected and the river is coming back. 
That is quite correct. That is the point I am making. It was a matter of the administration of the mining and development that took place at Rum Jungle 25 years ago when Australia first started to develop, mine and sell uranium. We have been selling uranium for 25 years. 
If the honourable senator feels so strongly, why on earth did he not attempt to get the Labor Government to take action when it was in power and the mining of uranium was taking place in the Northern Territory. The Labor Party's attitude to the whole situation is rather hypocritical. Let us forget about the Opposition's viewpoint. I think it has many holes in it. In fact, it is destroyed by the actions of the Labor Party over the last few years. 
We are dealing today with three Bills- the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill, the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill and the Environment Protection (Northern Territory Supreme Court) Bill. I suppose the Bills have been grouped together because for one reason or another they are controversial. The exception I have taken to the Bills, particularly in the last two weeks, has been to the fact that despite the work that has been done in the Northern Territory since the 1950s for the protection of national parks and those things which we wish to protect these days, the legislation excluded the participation of the people of the Northern Territory. The Northern Territory Reserves Board is a very skilled body, employing numerous skilled people, including Aborigines. It was the Board which in the first place proposed, some years ago, in the interests of Australia and the Northern Territory, that there be the Kakadu National Park, Since then much work has been taking place on 30-odd reserves. 
On 1 July 1978 the Northern Territory will go into a system of responsible self-government. That legislation is before the other place now and I presume that the Senate will be debating it next week or soon after. No doubt we will have much to say about it. As I have said before, the complaint that I had in the last two weeks was about the fact that the development of uranium outlined in the package that was presented some months ago to Australia and the world totally excluded participation by the people of the Northern Territory. I expect and hope that all honourable senators will agree that this was the wrong thing to do. No matter where one lives in Australia, whether it be a State or Territory, the people of that area have at least some right to some say in the things that happen in that place. In this case the people were not recognised. The organisations that have been working for the good of the nation were not recognised. The situation was as I have described. 
As honourable senators realise, over the last two weeks certain discussions have taken place. I am pleased to some extent to be able to say that, as a result of those negotiations between the Federal Government, the people of the Northern Territory and the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council, an active part will now be played by each of those three bodies. It is all very well for people down here, whether honourable senators or members in the other place, to make plans for Australia, and especially for the Northern Territory, without paying heed to what they are doing. 
I would like to touch on that subject briefly. It means a tremendous amount to me- naturally, it means probably more to me than it does to any other senator. I implore senators- and if I have to get down on my hands and knees I will certainly not be too proud to do it- to keep in mind that laws and policies relating to the Northern Territory which are made in the Federal sphere should take into account the fact that, as a territory and a people, we are a little different from most other parts of Australia. Our population is made up of mixed races. We have a large Aboriginal community. We have many migrants. We have many people who have been born in the Territory, or who have gone there to live. The future of the Territory depends upon the ability of its people to live in what I would call a state of co-existence. That is not to be taken as a racist term. Co-existence recognises that the Aboriginal people, despite the troubles they are going through now, are a proud race and will always exist.  In  my mind there will not be integration in the sense of the absorption of the black- the production of a type of brown-skinned individual. I can not see that happening at any stage. Certainly if it ever did happen it would be many decades hence. 
At the same time we have the Europeans, people who have come to live in the Territory since 1824. Our future lies in the ability of both groups to work and live alongside each other. Over the last few years we have been under extreme pressures because, although we have been endeavouring to foster this recognition of each other, to live together, to be an ordinary community, we have been subjected to stresses and strains as a result of the views of many organisations and governments, in applying to us certain laws and policies. I will have more to say next week on the stage of self-government that we are now entering, but I would say now that, having brought Kakadu and the uranium industry into being, we must ensure that whatever we do we encourage the people of the Territory to live and work together. I have my doubts as to whether that can be achieved. 
I am very glad to hear the honourable senator say that. 
As honourable senators know, the mining people are well contained. They are so contained that, despite the fact that they have outlaid millions of dollars, they are unable to move. It is a fact of life now that, in view of the time that has been wasted, one must doubt that very much will be done in the Top End during the present dry season. I doubt that we will see any real work done. I believe that for the next three years the contracts made a few years ago by the Labor Government to supply uranium to other countries will not be fulfilled. There will probably be a delay of at least 1 8 months and if certain work is not carried out now, delivery will have to be put back for a further year. Therefore, it is nonsense to say that mining companies are these days creatures of their own will; that they can do as they wish. We know full well that they cannot. In the Northern Territory they have been waiting for two years or more- and especially is that true of this year- to carry out works that had been agreed to. 
On the question of representation of the Northern Territory, I am pleased to say that most of the proposals put to the Government, and agreed to by the Northern Land Council in Darwin a week or so ago, will now be implemented by way of this legislation. By the insertion in the Bills of these numerous points the Government will ensure that the people of the Northern Territory will, to the degree promised in the course of various conferences, correspondence and so on, have some say in the development of uranium. The proposals that I, with the assistance of others, have put forward, will merely place the Northern Territory in a situation whereby agreeements made previously will, to a degree, now be embodied in legislation. Some 80 per cent of the proposals originally made have been agreed to, and I assume that one cannot have everything that one desires. 
I would have wished that in the running of Kakadu Park, the experience of the Northern Territory could have been employed. The States have had a similar experience in running their own national parks. Those parks are not run by the Federal Government or a Federal body. We wanted Kakadu Park to be run by the people of the Territory jointly with a Federal body, the latter to have policy making powers, provision for funding and so on. However, the Territory will be participating in the park plan. It will have access to the Supervising Scientist and representation on the Co-ordinating Committee. 
I do not know how rough this is, but it is an amendment that has been moved by  Senator Ryan.  I do not imagine that one need table that; it has been moved already. On this scrap of paper I have about six lines, which I would not even call rough notes; rather are they headings. If the honourable senator would like to have a look at the paper I will table it. But I doubt whether even  Hansard  would be able to read what is on the paper. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bonner)-  There is no point of order. 
We must have some realisation and appreciation of the work that has been done or is being done in the Kakadu National Park. I think that  Senator Melzer  was a little hard on the companies in that area when she said they were doing all sorts of things and that nothing was being done to look after the ecology or the environment. I wonder whether she has ever been to the Pancontinental Mining Ltd site at Ja Ja. I presume that if she has been to what we call the uranium province she would have seen this site. Has she visited the laboratory that has been set up by Pancontinental at Ja Ja for use by scientists? Has she seen the work that has been carried out by the scientists? Has she seen the environmental surveys and plans that have been conducted? I suppose the mining company is concerned to protect itself by employing scientists, biologists and people of such training who are now in the field looking at things such as tree growth, the flow of rivers, the catching and tagging of fish and many other aspects. These people are now taking measurements in the air, in the water and on the ground so that as years go by and as development takes place we will have a yardstick for further measurements. It is not fair that such work should be carried out? 
This is what is happening now. I do not know whether the company is doing this because of command from any body, government or otherwise. The fact is that this mining company is doing this work. Let us be fair and try to bring about a situation in which there will be general agreement between the mining companies, the people in the area and the Aboriginal people. We should not endeavour in this place to put up walls and bring about a situation that will destroy our faith in each other. There is tremendous liaison between the personnel of the mining companies and the Aboriginal people who now work as wardens within Kakadu Park. 
I listened not only to the mining companies. Naturally I meet with representatives of the Northern Land Council and I talk to people who work in the field. I have also spoken to the traditional owners. It is strange that in all these discussions so infrequently do we hear the expressions of the traditional owners. My understanding of the views of the great majority of the traditional owners is this: As long as their sacred sites are protected and as long as they see that the ground is not going to be destroyed they wish mining to take place. I am not talking about what is said in the Press. I am putting what I believe a handful of traditional owners in this area were saying. There is a handful of traditional owners and their wishes are being respected. Therefore let us not have the nonsense that we have been hearing. If we take notice of it we will put up walls and promote confrontation and battles in the future. In fact I believe that when the financial arrangements for these royalties have been worked out we will see that the Aboriginal people will be extremely well off. I expect that this money will be spent for the benefit of the people. 
Much can be said on this particular situation. At this stage with time running out I am not able to speak at length about the problems of a closed town. I do not agree with the concept of a closed town because I do not think it will be feasible. The concept may sound fine but a closed town on a highway some 200 miles from Darwin defeats - 
I must answer that interjection about vandalism. It is a type of vandalism that hurts me. It is a different type of vandalism. 
The man with the high-powered rifle can be a vandal in any part of the world. The sort of protection we receive is dependent on our laws and on the rangers who police those laws. We have all heard about the country being destroyed through mining. Less than one per cent of the land area of the uranium province will be disturbed. It is interesting to make a comparison with the coalfields of Victoria. The Senate should look at the tens of square miles that have been denuded by gravel pits of construction contractors, governments and so on, as a result of work carried out on the Arnhem Highway. To my mind that is vandalism. Why have people not cried out about that? Why have they not said that about all the roads that have been built through Australia and the Northern Territory, such as the Arnhem Highway? Why have they not kicked about that? That sort of thing is destroying the environment, is it not? I find some of the arguments put forward rather strange. 
I do not support the amendment. The amendment opposes mining in the catchment areas of the Alligator Rivers, a portion of which is in the proposed boundaries of the Kakadu National Park. I say once again that the uranium package overcomes the problems there. Work that is being carried out will ensure that everything done there will be done to protect the country. The Government is urged to proceed forthwith to acquire Goodparla and Gimbat pastoral leases. If I remember rightly they are in the second stage of the National Park. That, in my mind, is a foregone conclusion. I do not support the amendment. I certainly support the development of uranium and particularly the three Bills now before us because they give recognition to the Northern Territory and enable it to play a part in its administration. 
Once again  Senator Cavanagh  is overlooking the situation as it exists today. To repeat myself, it is not a question of referring to the Territory as having black or white representation. We are referring to the people of the Territory.  Senator Cavanagh  must realise that time and time again in this debate this has been pointed out, but he refuses to see the situation. The Minister has mentioned that with any agreements the land owners must be consulted, but let us go a little further on this point. This legislation provides that Galarrwuy Yunupingu, the  chairman  of the Northern Land Council, shall be on the planning committee. Also the Northern Land Council is being represented on the Northern Territory Wildlife Commission which will be consulted by the Federal Government. I understand that there will be further Aboriginal representation on the Central Land Council. So there is Aboriginal participation there. 
A further look at the legislation reveals that under this particular clause, this consultation will involve employees. I have just mentioned the representation by Aboriginal people on the Northern Territory Wildlife Commission. So honourable senators can see that there is a thread of Aboriginal people being put in positions involving consultation and that there is Aboriginal representation. So what this new clause is all about is the Federal Government consulting with the people of the Northern Territory. The people of the Northern Territory consist of blacks and whites. That is the way they are being represented. I ask  Senator Cavanagh  to endeavour not to keep on with what he has been doing. I repeat, he has been endeavouring to bring about a divisive situation in the Northern Territory which does not exist at present. 
Obviously it is the intention of  Senator Cavanagh  to continue to endeavour to drive a wedge between the people of the Territory. I thought he could have made it plainer when he referred to the  Territory Watchdog.  I ask  Senator Cavanagh  why he did not say that the  Territory Watchdog  is a newsletter put out by his colleague,  Senator Robertson. Senator Cavanagh  can have his viewpoint, but he should be truthful about the matter. 
I ask a question which is in one of those grey areas which could be covered by the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs or the AttorneyGeneral. It concerns Aboriginal land right claims and, in particular, the hearing of such claims. Having regard to the complex legal and social evidence which is produced before Aboriginal land rights inquiries, will the Minister consider the granting of financial assistance to, for example, chambers of commerce, tourist boards, fishing co-operatives, and private individualsthe man in the street- to enable them to put their case in the best possible manner? Does the Minister not agree that Aboriginal groups which enjoy the benefit of Federal funding, together with large financial resources and expertise, are in a better position than the ordinary citizen to state their case? Does the Minister agree that all persons presenting evidence before such inquiries should be given an equal opportunity? In the event of the Minister not having the authority to do so, will he undertake to raise the matter with the Government to obtain such authority? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Yesterday, I received the following telegram from a commercial fisherman based in Darwin. I ask the question contained in that telegram to the Minister. It states: 
What are your Government's plans to compensate fishermen who have outlayed finance to fish in Northern Territory waters in accordance with Northern Territory ordinances in view of your Minister Viner's implementation of Justice Toohey "s recommendation of Aboriginal land extending to low water mark and that fishermen have no right to allow nets to dry between low and high water mark. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs a question. Papunya in the western sector of the Alice Springs area has been going through considerably troublesome times in the last few years with the result that three officers from Commonwealth departments concerned with the Aboriginal people prepared a report to the Government. In view of the continuing problems, can the Minister advise what action is being taken to implement the report or otherwise? Is it the intention of the Government to retain its responsibility for the health of the people in the area? If so, will it continue to be through an active role or merely that of oversight? 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to the increase in the postal charges of 2c, from 18c to 20c per letter, which was announced recently. As the people of the outback are more dependent on postal communications than city dwellers, and as postal services to the outback have deteriorated as postal charges have increased, what is the reason for the increase when one considers the annual surpluses of the postal and telecommunications authorities? Is the increased charge designed to cover the loss caused by such scurrilous postal strikes as the Redfern Mail Exchange strikes which resulted in extreme inconvenience in Australia? Does the Government give its imprimatur to postal increases or does such a decision rest with Australia Post? Finally, what is the postal authority going to do to give people of the outback value for money in regard to postal services? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. A spokesman for the Australian Conservation Foundation claims that because of a severe downturn in nuclear programs throughout the world and as uranium has moved from a sellers market to a buyers market, there was concern that the Australian Government would relax its stringent security and controls and, in an effort to boost sales, would offer sites within Australia for the dumping of nuclear waste. Whilst recognising the necessity for the storage of Australian nuclear waste within Australia, does the Government intend to offer storage sites as suggested by the Australian Conservation Foundation? 
I draw the Committee's attention to the report of Estimates Committee D, and particularly that part which deals with division 543.2.04- Department of Science- Antarctic Division- hire of ships and aircraft, $38,000. During the last three years of the operation of Estimates Committees, I have been a member of Estimates Committee D. In previous years the Department of Science was dealt with by Estimates Committee E, if I remember correctly. I think it is of importance that the Government take note of the fact that the matter of the two ships which service the Antarctic and which are leased by the Department of Science- that is, the  Nella Dan  and the  Thala Dan-  has been a deteriorating story, if I can express it in those terms, particularly over the last three years. The report clearly indicates that the Department of Science in the future can expect more and more difficulties. I shall read briefly from the report: 
In its report in October 1977 Estimates Committee E observed the failure to investigate alternatives to the hire of ships for Antarctic expeditions. This Committee was told  (Hansard,  4 May 1978, page 246) that a critical situation has arisen in relation to one of the vessels hitherto available, and there are no other suitable vessels in the world at present. It is possible that the Commonwealth will pay a very heavy price for the inordinate delay in the consideration of alternatives to the hiring of ships. 
I have been following this situation with considerable interest over the last two or three years. When the officers of the Department of Science appeared before the Committee they said that the servicing of the Antarctic is becoming more and more difficult. Yet no obvious action has been taken by government to ensure that at some time in the future the Government will be able to make a positive move. When I refer to 'a positive move ', I believe that it can take no other action than to move more and more rapidly towards the planning and building of a ship which will suit the particular and specialised needs of servicing the Antarctic. I shall emphasise the situation by quoting what the Minister said on page 246 of the  Hansard  report of the Committee's proceedings when we were dealing with this matter: 
In answer to the question: There are two ships, of course. There are the  Thala Dan  and the  Nella Dan  that we hire at the present time, and both ships, we believe, have a limited life. We are facing particular difficulties in this coming year in the chaner of one of those vessels because we take it on a sub-charter from the French, and we have current information which suggests that there may be great difficulty in chartering one of the two ships for this coming year. If that occurs, we will be in considerable difficulty trying to relieve our stations with the one ship. The ship we propose to build, of course, is a long way off. We are only making feasibility studies at the present time and it will be some years before we achieve a ship of our own. There are difficulties along the line between now and then. I would suggest that we will need chartered ships along with the one that we are likely to build for ourselves when that time comes. 
A little further on one of the officers of the Department told the Committee that a world survey had revealed that there are really no ships available with the special facilities and techniques that are necessary for servicing our stations in the Antarctic. I believe it is important for me to stress that if we wish to participate in the future of Antarctica it is absolutely necessary that we must be prepared to spend money immediately in planning and in pushing forward plans for building at least one ship for servicing our stations in the Antarctic. The Minister has indicated that even one ship is insufficient. So, no matter how one looks at it, Australia will be in extreme difficulties in the years ahead in servicing our stations in Antarctica. When I say 'years ahead ' I am not talking in terms of four or five years. I anticipate that as from next year Australia will be in difficulties. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 1 1 April 1978: 
What were the substantial losses, and proportions of losses, incurred by the Northern Territory Electricity Supply attributable to fuel oil prices, labour and other costs, referred to by the Minister in his statement on 3 1 March 1 978. 
Have there been substantial losses through bad debts mainly brought about by accounts not having been forwarded or collected after Cyclone Tracy: if so, what is the total amount involved. 
What losses have been incurred in each year since 1973. 
Are the losses assessed on an overall assessment of the electricity supply or on an operational basis excluding capital depreciation adjustments. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I refer to various queries in the media and also to a news release from  Mr Paul  Everingham, Majority Leader of the Northern Territory Executive, indicating that the Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund was not finalised through any fault of the trustees, but that it awaited a legal ruling on the allocation of the remaining funds and that that matter had been referred to the Attorney-General 's Department. In view of the fact that final distribution of funds has been held up for a considerable time, is the Minister in a position to indicate when the legal matters will be resolved and so facilitate the winding-up of the Trust Fund? 
In speaking to the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill 1 978, and the associated Bills, I would first say that in these last two weeks history has been made in the Federal House of Parliament by the introduction of this legislation. It produces a most unique situation: For the first time a Territory is developing into selfgovernment and is moving along the road to statehood. Indeed, it would be true to say that with the Territory developing as it is, and with its responsible government status emerging- a government with plenary powers- for the first time the Territory is being recognised. 
I have listened to the remarks of  Senator Robertson  and must say that to some degree I am a little disappointed. It would have been better, with the Territory making this tremendous step forward, if we could have come together to present a unified viewpoint. However, the Opposition is taking, to quite an extent, a somewhat negative attitude. I do not intend this afternoon to play on what the Australian Labor Party has done, what the Liberal-National Country coalition has done and so on. Over the years a tremendous effort has been made by all political parties to produce the present situation. However, I must say that in the last year or two, although Opposition members have indicated in a manner their support for these constitutional changes, they have been party to a continual questioning and erosion process which I do not think helps the Bill. 
I wish to retrace briefly the steps of constitutional change over the years. I think it is necessary that the people of Australia should appreciate the situation. One can best describe this most important constitutional change over the years as the political pioneering of the Northern Territory, lt has indeed been an extremely hard road. Honourable senators will recall, when looking at the history of the Northern Territory, that the Territory was first incorporated in New South Wales in 1825 and was annexed by South Australia in 1863; That in 1890 South Australia conferred parliamentary franchise on the people of the Northern Territory; and that in 1901, the date of Federation, the Northern Territory enjoyed full parliamentary franchise by virtue of the Federal electorate of Grey. 
In those days, despite the fact that the Territory was an extremely isolated area, the population of which was very small, the pioneers were becoming recognised; they had, by 1910 or 1911, achieved a considerable degree of political responsibility, certainly recognition. But in 1910 came the Northern Territory Acceptance Act and the Northern Territory Administration ActFederal Acts- which returned the people of the Northern Territory to the status of being just numbers in a territory. Full parliamentary franchise had been removed. An Administrator, with nine senior officials, was appointed. I suppose this was really the beginning of the struggle for political representation, for the people of the Territory to have a say in their own affairs. 
One can learn from the history of these pioneering giants who did so much for the Territory in those days, the various ways in which they produced, by continual battling with the Federal Government, a situation in which their rights were recognised and by degrees, they enjoyed increasing constitutional change. Even so, it took a long time. In 1923, for the first time, the House of Representatives included an honourable member from the Northern Territory, without voting rights. In 1947 we had the beginning of the Northern Territory Legislative Council, which  Senator Robertson  has mentioned. 
In 1958 the Legislative Council resigned after it had done battle with the Federal Government over its recognition. In 1 959 limited voting rights were granted to the member for the Northern Territory in the House of Representatives. In 1 962 a remonstrance was presented to the Federal Parliament. In those days I was a member of the Legislative Council. A delegation consisting of the  President  of the Council and other people presented the remonstrance- a political instrument- to the Federal Parliament pleading for recognition and for some say in their own affairs. However, the Federal Government did not debate the issue. In 1964 another delegation, of which I was a member, followed up many of the earlier moves. In 1959 there was a further constitutional change. In 1968 full voting rights were given to the member for the Northern Territory in the House of Representatives. 
In 1973 the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory was formed, and there are members of the present Parliament who were members of that Committee. I believe that the Territory owes a considerable amount to the members of that Committee- Liberal Party, Country Party and Labor Party members. They presented the report which really set the guidelines for the political development that is taking place now. It is not my intention to examine the report now. The moves that have been made in the last few years have emanated from that report. Members of this Parliament who participated in the making of that report can say with some feeling that they have played a major part in what is happening today. Following the report of the Joint Committee, a fully elected Legislative Assembly was established in 1974, and over the next two years it participated in preparing for the changes we are now debating. 
Let me go back over the years in order to describe to the Senate the feelings of the people in the Territory. They wished to have some say in their own affairs. After the Federal Parliament passed the Northern Territory Acceptance Act and the Northern Territory Administration Act in 1911, the Territory went into limbo. An Administrator and senior officials ruled the Northern Territory, and the people of the Territory had no say whatsoever. They did not have even an advisory body. It was quite wrong that those Australians who lived in the Northern Territory were denied the political rights that the rest of the people of Australia had. 
In 1947 the Commonwealth Government saw fit to form a legislative council in the Northern Territory consisting of 13 people- seven nominated official members from the Commonwealth Public Service and six elected members representing the six electorates that were formed in the Northern Territory. Despite the fact that a legislative council had been formed, it was a very sad day because the elected members of the Northern Territory had very little say in the affairs of the Northern Territory. No matter what the six elected members said on behalf of the Northern Territory, the seven official members from the Commonwealth Public Service voted en bloc against them. So we had what was in those days termed the 'seven-six' treatment. Feelings ran very strongly at that time. There were street marches and demonstrations, but there was never any violence. The feeling and mood of the people in those days- that is, from the 1 940s on- were extremely strong. 
Because of the strength of their representation and their voice that echoed throughout Australia there were, by degrees, constitutional changes. In 1958 a further change was made, and the old colonial system arrived in the Northern Territory. There were then eight elected members, six nominated members and three non-official members of the Legislative Council. I was a nonofficial member at that time. It was an odd situation but, thank goodness, that constitutional change did not last for long. It was not right that the people of the Territory should have had inflicted upon them a majority of nominated people and a minority of elected people. This situation continued for a considerable time. There were many political giants in the Northern Territory in thos;: days. There was no political difference between Liberal, Country Party or Labor people on this matter. They joined on one issue. 
It is disappointing to some degree that at present the Opposition is wandering away from the single aim of moving the Territory forward. The Opposition tends to question without real reason. I think there are answers to the various queries that have been raised. One of the champions of the Northern Territory was  Mr Justice  Ward. He was one of the leading Labor members in those days. He made some very interesting statements. He was a most remarkable man. In 1 960 he said: 
The Territory will never develop as has been shown everywhere else throughout the world until the people take the reins of government completely in their own hands. 
In 1959 he said: 
I have no doubt that in the interests of Australia as a whole the sooner from every point of view that the Northern Territory has self-government, the better. 
Later, in 1973, he said: 
The people of the Northern Territory are as capable of managing their own affairs as any groups of people in the British Commonwealth and they also stand condemned in the eyes of the world unless they exert every possible effort to achieve completely responsible and representative government within the Australian federal system. 
What  Mr Justice  Ward said in those days has been carried on by the people of the Northern Territory to bring the Territory to the position it is in today- where it is about to accept responsible self-government. Many other important things have been said. I go back to the submissions presented to the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory on behalf of the Executive of the Northern Territory Australian Labor Party. I have to bring up this point because there now appears to be a wavering to some extent from the principle that was laid down by those strong leaders of the past. The submission was presented by  Mr John  Waters and  Mr John  Isaacs, who is now the Opposition Leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly.  Mr Isaacs  said: 
In making the following submissions we urge the Committee not to recommend any deferment of the question of which powers are to devolve upon the regional Executive. 
The submission talked about a fully elected legislative council and its responsibilities within the Northern Territory- responsibilities in areas such as health, mining, law enforcement, labour, secondary industries, urban and rural affairs, land courts, the Department of the AttorneyGeneral and so on. 
No, they are leading Labor people in the Northern Territory who are now saying something different to what they said  a  few years ago in their submissions to the Committee, which did such a tremendous job for the Northern Territory. 
This debate is restricted because the Senate is nearing the end of the session and the legislation has to be passed through the Senate to bring about responsible self-government for the Northern Territory as from 1 July. There has been intense activity over the last two years. The Minister for the Northern Territory,  Mr Evan  Adermann, has visited the Territory a good many times. I have lost count of the number of visits but they far outnumber the visits made by any other Minister who has held the Northern Territory portfolio in the Federal Parliament. There have been discussions between the Minister, the committee of Ministers and the various interdepartmental committees which have Federal responsibilities in the Northern Territory. I think that about 14 or 15 Ministers have had responsibility for matters involving the Northern Territory. It has been a very fragmented situation. Discussions have taken place at a considerable rate. Naturally, there have been discussions with the Northern Territory Executive. I think it is true to say that, despite the extreme pressure that has been continuing over the last two years and with the change in Ministers and in the Executive of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly at times better consultations and communications were needed. There have been breakdowns in . communication. When these lapses have occurred I suggest that there has been a surging forward which has resulted in improved communication and many matters have been ironed out. 
The transfer of powers from the Federal Government to the Northern Territory is a very complex situation. I commend the people of the Northern Territory such as the Paul Everinghams, the Marshall Perrons and the people associated with the Public Service who have been assisting them, for the work that they have carried out over the past years. They have worked extremely hard. They have been extremely busy. They have been to Canberra time and time again and negotiations have gone on into the late hours of the night. On 1 January we saw the transfer of some State-like responsibilities to the Northern Territory. This means an initial build-up in the Northern Territory Public Service. There was a secondment of public servants to the Northern Territory Public Service. Under this legislation a multitude of State-like powers will be handed over to the Northern Territory as from 1 July. Naturally the list is extremely large. Very few powers will be left to be transferred at a later time. The main powers that will be transferred at a later time relate to health, which I understand will be handed over to the Northern Territory as from 1 January 1979, and education, which will be handed over from 1 July 1979. 
The people of the Northern Territory should not be alarmed because it may be thought that the administrative framework is not available in the Northern Territory. The fact of the matter is that the framework does exist. The administrative body has been in the Territory under the Commonwealth Public Service. Fortunately there are very many expert and dedicated senior public servants and officials in the Northern Territory. Whereas in the past they used to answer to Canberra they will now answer to the responsible Ministers in the Northern Territory. So I see absolutely no problem whatsoever, following the changeover on 1 July, in the administration of the various responsibilities because the men are now in the Northern Territory. They are dedicated men and I believe they have the expertise with which to carry out the administration of the Northern Territory. They are settled there. They know full well their responsibilities and where they are going in the future. 
It was said recently by a very senior Minister that responsible self-government in the Northern Territory is a courageous step. As one who has lived most of my life in the Northern Territory I agree with him. It is a courageous step that is being taken but nevertheless the people are undaunted. However, I do see some problems in the future for which one must have regard and which one must watch carefully to ensure that this embryo of a State will continue to grow and will at some time in the future- I do not hazard a guess when- go into statehood. As a layman I believe that all people in Australia should have the right to say whether the Northern Territory should become a State. I think that the pan of the Constitution dealing with this subject is a little hazy and is difficult for a layman to understand. But it seems to me that eventually when the Territory reaches the time when it is ready for statehood there should be a referendum in which the people of the Northern Territory and of Australia should participate. 
I referred earlier to problems which the Northern Territory will face in the future and which it will have to watch. The Northern Territory is in a unique situation. It encompasses about 520,000 to 540,000 square miles. Within the Northern Territory a considerable amount of land is held under Federal Acts. As I have already indicated, this situation may continue. 
The honourable senator is floating some sort of suggestion. As I said, we will have to be careful in the future. If the Northern Territory is to have a sufficient area of land to warrant responsible self-government and to ultimately grow into a State, we will have to be careful that legislation under the Federal system of government does not continue to encroach on Northern Territory land. Of course I am talking about Aboriginal land rights, on which there has been agreement. But there is a growing tendency to increase the area of land under Federal control and to decrease the area under Territory control. We have witnessed the move by the Federal Government to set up national parks. The land involved is Federal land, not Territory land. If we want the Northern Territory to ultimately develop into a State we will have to ensure that there is sufficient land in the Northern Territory to enable it to become a State. 
Much has been said regarding the finances of the Northern Territory. I think it has been most unfortunate that the people of the Northern Territory have continually been bombarded with misinformation and misinterpretation and that red herrings have been dragged across the trail in an endeavour to frighten people about the cost of responsible self-government for the Northern Territory. Anyone, no matter to which political party he belongs, who studies the principles of federalism and the Commonwealth grants system knows that it is clearly indicated that the cost to the individual will not be that which is being proposed in some quarters. I look upon the Territory as being in a situation similar to that of the smaller States. The Territory's wants will have to be recognised. Action will have to be taken to bring the Territory more or less into parity with the bigger States. It will have to receive financial assistance similar to that given to Western Australia, Queensland, Tasmania- those States which have been funded to such a degree that they are in a fairly good situation today. 
I have shown two statements to the Opposition Whip. One is titled 'Financial Principles for Northern Territory Self-Government Agreed '. It is a statement issued by the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  earlier this year. I also have a Press statement issued on 20 May by the Cabinet Member for Finance and Planning,  Mr Marshall  Perron, which also refers to the financing of the Northern Territory. As both these statements are short I ask that they be incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

FINANCIAL PRINCIPLES FOR N.T. SELF-GOVERNMENT AGREED 
The Minister for the Northern Territory, the  Hon.  Evan Adermann, and the Chief Secretary and Majority Leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly,  Mr Paul  Everingham, M.L.A., today announced that agreement had been reached on the framework of principles within which the financial arrangements for Northern Territory selfgovernment would be drawn up. 
These principles had been developed at a meeting on 20 February between  Mr Everingham  and his  Deputy (Mr Marshall Perron, M.L.A.)  and a Committee of Commonwealth Ministers comprising the Ministers for the Northern Territory, Education (representing the Prime Minister for Federal Affairs) and Finance and Treasurer and the AttorneyGeneral. Federal Cabinet has now endorsed the agreed position reached at that meeting. 
In addition, the Government has acceded to a request by  Mr Everingham  that the Northern Territory Government be given access to the Commonwealth Grants Commission from 1 July, 1978 on a similar basis as a claimant State. This proposal had been advanced by  Mr Everingham  as a fundamental condition of any satisfactory financial agreement. 
The basis of the financial arrangements will be the Commonwealth/State financial model with the Northern Territory receiving payments analogous to tax sharing, specific purpose grants and special revenue assistance in recognition of the disabilities of the Territory. The Commonwealth will endeavour to ensure that assistance to the Northern Territory is sufficient to maintain standards of service at an overall equivalent to that presently provided pending the examination by the Grants Commission of the Territory's current revenues and expenditures. This examination will take some time to be completed and in the interim period the N.T. Government will be financed in much the same way as in the present financial year with due allowance being made for those functions to be transferred on I July next. 
In the meantime, officers are proceeding with the refinement and quantification of the many detailed aspects of the financial arrangements necessary to the completion of the Letters of Understanding to be signed by the Prime Minister and the Majority Leader. Further announcements will be made as this work progresses. 
The agreements now reached have opened the way for the introduction in the Parliament and the Legislative Assembly of the legislation necessary to establish the Northern Territory Government. This will include a Commonwealth Act creating the new body politic with its own Ministers and a series of ordinances relating to the internal administration of the new Government. 

 Mr Adermann emphasised that it was a primary concern of the Commonwealth to ensure that the Northern Territory proceeds to self-government on a sound financial basis. The Minister said that before Statehood, the Commonwealth will retain a special relationship with and a special responsibility for the Territory. 

 Mr Everingham expressed his satisfaction at the outcome of the financial discussions to date. He said that he was confident of the ultimate success of full self-government as a consequence of the Commonwealth's agreement in respect of the Grants Commission. He said the Commonwealth is meeting its responsibilities and fully supporting our move to self-government. 
NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA 
P.O. Box 4396 Darwin, NT 5794 Cabinet Member for Finance and Planning May 20, 1978 
News Release 
The Cabinet Member for Finance and Planning,  Mr Marshall  Perron, said today he wanted to end confusion in the Labor Party about Federal funding for the Territory after self-government. 

 Mr Perron was commenting on fears expressed by ALP Secretary,  Mr John  Waters, that in future Commonwealth funds for the Territory would be tied to allocations to the States. 

 Mr Perron said the entire basis of Commonwealth-State financial agreements seemed not to be appreciated by the Labor Opposition. The fact is, the States do not get an equal share of the Commonwealth cake even on a population basis. 

 Mr Perron said the Labor secretary appeared to believe that each State got the same amount of Federal dollars for every person living in that State. 
The real situation was that Canberra took disabilities and special circumstances into account including problems posed by distance, communications and lack of basic development. 

 Mr Perron said this meant that the poorer States received a bigger share proportionately in the annual cut-up of Federally controlled funds. 
On a population basis, Tasmania for example received far more than any other State. 

 Mr Perron said the Territory's special circumstances and needs had been argued forcibly in the financial negotiations with the Commonwealth Government in the lead up to selfgovernment. 
We see ourselves in a somewhat similar situation to Tasmania, but with greater needs. There is no danger of a cut in Federal spending in the Territory after July 1, said  Mr Perron.  In fact, he added, I would have thought that even the Labor Opposition would by now have become convinced of the expanding opportunities which self-government will bring to the Northern Territory. 
As I have said, the field covered by this legislation is so vast that I am not endeavouring to cover it. I am endeavouring to pick out a few of the major points, not so much to answer criticisms as to give to people, particularly people of the Northern Territory, who may read this debate some understanding of the issue. At least they will be able to read from another source all the things that relate very significantly to them. 
Much has been said also about the Northern Territory Public Service and the Commonwealth Public Service. Once again, it is difficult to show these people that their future and their privileges are being safeguarded. Over the last few months these people have been bombarded by so many statements that their confidence in the future in some instances has been eroded. The multitude of negative statements that has been made has not given the true situation of what will happen about Commonwealth public servants being seconded to the Northern Territory Service. I have here a news release of 3 1 May issued by the Majority Leader of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I have shown it the Opposition for its consideration. I ask that leave be given to incorporate the document in  Hansard. 
I am sorry, no. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

MAJORITY LEADER 
P.O. Box 4396. Darwin, N.T. 5794. 
May 31, 1978. 
News Release 
The Leader of the Opposition has again displayed his total lack of understanding of the Northern Territory Public Service and the transfer of functions from the Australian Public Service on 1 July, the Majority Leader,  Mr Paul  Everingham, said today. 

 Mr Everingham was commenting on  Mr Isaac's  call to the Majority Party to resolve the conditions of service for new recruits to the Northern Territory Public Service before 1 July. 

 Mr Everingham pointed out that all basic conditions of service had been finalised for some time. The Public Service Commissioner had issued comprehensive by-laws covering virtually the whole range of employment conditions. 
However,  Mr Everingham  said joint management-union consultations were being held on the most appropriate ongoing conditions to apply to the NTPS. 
The conditions being brought over by transferred Australian Public Servants were based on what had been considered appropriate for a public service based substantially on Canberra, Melbourne and Sydney. 
Those conditions were not necessarily the most appropriate for a State-type Public Service in the Territory. 
The Majority Leader said he shared  Mr Isaacs  ' desire to have all staff receiving the same entitlements and hoped this would be achieved when the consultative Council finished its discussions. 

 Mr Everingham said he hoped a new package of entitlements developed by the union and management representatives would be so attractive that transferred staff would prefer to adopt them rather than retain their current entrenched conditions. 
The news release relates to Commonwealth Public Servants transferring to the Northern Territory Public Service. One can imagine that the Commonwealth public servants, who have served for many years in Commonwealth departments and whose future has been secure, have some qualms about the transfer. These people can be advised very strongly that their future within the Northern Territory Public Service is assured. Their privileges and standards of employment will more than equal those of the Commonwealth Public Service. Indeed, the Commonwealth public servants who have transferred to the Northern Territory Public Service in the last few months have settled in to a situation which a lot of them never dreamed about before. They find themselves suddenly in an area of activity and an area of decision-making- an area in which they are participating for the first time. They are having a real say in the running of the Northern Territory. Previously, the Commonwealth public servants, like the people of the Northern Territory, had absolutely no say in the running of the Territory. They were just an arm of the bureaucracy of the centralist administration that held the Territory in tight reign for many years. Of course, I refer to the system of government from Canberra which, I believe, generally speaking has not been of benefit to the Northern Territory. This long arm of administration has seen the expenditure and the wastage of many millions of dollars in the Northern Territory. Under the new administration within the Northern Territory the Northern Territory taxpayers will get far more for their money because expenditure in the Northern Territory will be supervised by Northern Territory people. The eyes of the people of the Northern Territory will be on the new administration. Of course, if a mistake is made in a regional government it is very easy to rectify. 
I will not discuss all the points of the Bill during the second reading debate, but it is quite true that I do not agree with some aspects of the Bill. 
The Majority Leader of the Northern Territory Executive does not agree with them, either. He and various Cabinet members have been in Canberra in the last few weeks. After continued consultation with the Government on many issues contained in the Northern Territory (SelfGovernment) Bill, amendments have been agreed to by the Government and the Northern Territory Executive. As a result, the Bill is now in much better shape and in a shape required by the Northern Territory. But, as  Senator Robertson  has indicated, one or two areas are still not suitable to the Northern Territory. I speak particularly of clause 35 which states that the Government by regulation will list those areas of State-like responsibility that will be handed over to the Northern Territory. So, the Government, by regulation, will endeavour to list every item of responsibility that will be handed to the Northern Territory. I believe that this course is not feasible. I have been given many explanations stating that it will be feasible and workable. I and many other members within the two Federal Houses believe- I know that the Government parties federal affairs committee has qualms about this-that within the Government ranks there are considerable qualms about this Bill. It is felt that it would be much better if the new powers that are not to be handed to the Northern Territory were spelt out by regulation by the Commonwealth Government. We are saying that the reverse should be the case. I do not wish to pursue this point much more but I direct the attention of honourable senators to a debate in the House of Representatives on 3 June 1 978 on the Northern Territory self-government legislation. I draw the attention of honourable senators particularly to page 3053 of the  Hansard  record, a speech given by  Mr Ian  Wilson, the honourable member for Sturt in that House. It is a fine speech which clearly indicates the present situation. 
I turn to other aspects of the legislation. As I said before, many faults have been corrected. However, I believe-  Senator Robertson  made the point also- that in relation to some aspects the power of the Administrator appointed by the Federal Government is too great. This has been qualified to a degree by the Federal Government. The situation is not so oppressive as it was before when it could have been described only as being so oppressive as to be an over-kill. However, that situation has been altered to quite a degree. The position of the Northern Territory Administrator is unique inasmuch as in the Northern Territory he will be wearing two hats at different times. He will be a type of State governor when he is overseeing Northern Territory matters, and in those areas of Commonwealth responsibility that are retained he will be a type of agent-adviser to the Northern Territory on behalf of the Commonwealth Government. 
I fully support this Bill. I have lived in the Territory for many years and know many people there. They wish, no more and no less than other people of Australia, to have a say in their own affairs- how money should be spent and how money should be raised. People of the Territory have the ability to do this in various ways. They are individuals. They are pioneering. They are hardy. They have the ability to run their own affairs in the Northern Territory. Under the Commonwealth grants system financing of Northern Territory Government projects there will be assured. 
I wish to make one or two brief comments on other package legislation. One of these relates to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill. There is a changing situation because of the transfer of powers to the Northern Territory. In a particular circumstance under the Aboriginal land rights legislation a report is required to be made to the Minister responsible in this area. I have a letter dated 24 May this year relating to Aboriginal land rights in the Territory. The present legislation requires the Aboriginal land commissioners to report to the Minister for the Northern Territory. The Northern Territory Legislative Assembly now requests that not only should he report to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs but also that he report to the Northern Territory Executive. Because of the changing situation of the Minister for the Northern Territory- a position which becomes non-existent on 30 June- responsibility in this area will come under the Department of Home Affairs. The Assembly requests that an amendment be made to the legislation to ensure that the commissioners report to the Northern Territory Executive. I ask that this letter be incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

MAJORITY LEADER 
P.O. Box 4396. Darwin, N.T. 5494. 

 Senator B. F. Kilgariff, Secretary, 
Federal Affairs Committee, Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T. 2600. 
Dear  Senator Kilgariff, 
I wish to draw the attention of the Committee to Section 50 ( 1) of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) 
Act 1976. This section requires the Aboriginal Land Commissioner to report to the Minister for the Northern Territory as well as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs on his findings in respect of Aboriginal Land Claims to unalienated Crown Land and the likely extent of traditional land claims by Aboriginals to alienated Crown Land. He is also required to advise both Ministers in connection with any other matter relating to land in the Northern Territory that is referred to the Commissioner by the Minister with the concurrence of the Minister for the Northern Territory. 
With the transfer of responsibilities over land, mining and other functions in the Northern Territory as from 1 July 1978, the role of the Minister for the Northern Territory in his current administration of land will change and therefore it would be appropriate for the Chief Minister of the new Northern Territory Government to replace the Minister for the Northern Territory in the Act. 
It is clear that where land grants are recommended under the Federal Act which will have a bearing on land use in the Northern Territory and where detriment to parties in the Territory involving compensation could occur, the Government controlling Crown Lands in the right of the Northern Territory should be consulted before any decision is made by the Commonwealth pursuant to Section 1 1 of the Act. 
The matter of appropriate amendments to Section 50 of the Act has been raised with the Prime Minister and I have sought an undertaking that the Chief Minister will be consulted on possible land grants after 1st July, 1978 and prior to the enactment of enabling legislation. 
I ask that the Committee review this matter which I believe is both necessary and desirable in the interests of the Northern Territory and to comply with the intentions of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. 
Yours sincerely, PAUL EVERINGHAM. 
I thank the Senate. Other Bills relate to the transfer of powers, the Ombudsman Amendment Bill and the Remuneration Tribunals Amendment Bill. Shortly, following the passage of this legislation, there will be a Northern Territory Ombudsman. Also, the salaries of office holders in the Northern Territory will be determined by the Remuneration Tribunal. I think it is a wise method when fixing salaries for members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to be able to use the facilities of the Federal Remuneration Tribunal. I think this would be acceptable to the members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and the people of the Northern Territory. In the present situation there is no necessity for further wastage of time in the transfer of powers to the Northern Territory by having an opinion poll. I have indicated that over the years the people of the Northern Territory have striven hard for this transfer of power. For many years it has been a plank in platforms and it has been discussed by the people of the Northern Territory. They wish to have a say in their own affairs. Statements have been made that a referendum should be held on the question. Perhaps such statements come from those who also have other interests. I believe that a section of people in the Northern 
Territory- not necessarily political- does not wish to see advancement of the Territory. These are people who are in the Territory for a short time. 
I suppose a definition of a Territorian would be similar to the definition of a person from a State. My definition of a person of the Northern Territory is a person who lives in the Northern Territory, whose home in the future is to be the Northern Territory and- I presume also to say- who is dedicated to its development and political development. I should like to refute one point. An honourable senator previously spoke of various people who have made various statements. It is indicated that  Mr Bob  Liddle, who is  President  of the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress, had made a statement against responsible self-government. He visited me last Saturday week- less than two weeks ago- and said that he had no part in the statement that came out in his name and that in future if any statement of a political nature or of a nature relating to the type of discussion that is before us today comes out in his name it should be ignored because it will be put out without his confirmation. 
I commend all those people who have been associated with this move towards responsible self-government for the Northern Territory. I think the least I should do is perhaps to name one or two of the people who I consider to be political giants- people who have endeavoured to make history and who have helped the Northen Territory achieve this important milestone in its constitutional development. I referred earlier to  Mr Justice  Ward who was one of the leaders of the Labor Party years ago. I should also mention  Dr Letts  who, of course, was awarded the Commander of the British Empire on the Queen's Birthday Honours List last week. No doubt he received it for the efforts he has made on behalf of the Northern Territory. Another person who is worthy of mention is  Mr Withnall  who has spent, I think, some 2 1 years in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. There is that old battler, Tiger Brennan, who I think Australia has come to know over the years for his very vigorous approach to the matter of ensuring that the people of the Territory have a say in their own affairs. Finally, I mention  Mr Fred  Drysdale,  Mr Harry  Chan, who was a leading person from the Chinese community and also the mayor of Darwin, the  President  of the Northern Territory Legislative Council, Tony Greatorex, and the many other people who have contributed to the development of the Northern Territory. 
I support the Bills. In relation to the Ashmore and Cartier Islands, I agree with  Senator Robertson  that there has been a lack of consultation. My understanding of the situation is that the Federal Government has moved to exclude the Ashmore and Cartier Islands from annexation with the Northern Territory. I think it is inexcusable that consultation has not taken place. I believe that in relation to all matters which concern the Northern Territory and, for that matter, any State in which the Federal Government has some interest, consultation must take place before the Federal Government takes action. As much as I would like to see the Territory retain control- if control is the appropriate word- over the Ashmore and Cartier Islands, I do not think that the claim is sufficiently well founded. I think we have to be realistic about this. In closing my speech, I should like to refer to the  Australian Encyclopaedia  which, when referring to the Ashmore and Cartier Islands, states: 
Cartier Island is situated lat. 12 32 "S., 123 33'E., about 547 kilometres north of Derby, WA. Ashmore Islands (East, Middle and West) lie about 48 kilometres north-west of Cartier. All the islands lie at the outer edge of the continental shelf. They are small and low and are composed of coral and sand. Vegetation consists mainly of grass. Turtles are plentiful at certain times of the year and beche-de-mer is abundant. The islands are uninhabited. 
Great Britain took formal possession of the Ashmores in 1 878 and Cartier was annexed in 1 909. By Imperial Order in Council of 23 July 1931 the islands were placed under the authority of the Commonwealth of Australia. They were accepted by the Commonwealth through the Ashmore and Cartier Acceptance Act 1933, under the name of the Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands. The Act authorised the Governor of Western Australia to make ordinances having the force of law in, and in relation to, the Territory. An amendment to the Act in July 1938 annexed the islands to the Northern Territory, whose laws, ordinances and regulations, wherever applicable, thereupon applied. 
As I have indicated, naturally I would like to see no land lost to the Northern Territory but I believe that in the present circumstances our claim to the Ashmore and Cartier Islands has no firm basis. I support the Bills but I do not support the amendment. 
I do not agree with the amendment moved by  Senator Robertson  which is to restore the tolerance to 10 per cent. The situation now is that the honourable senator referred one manone vote.  Senator Robertson  referred to this. I think he must appreciate that in the Northern Territory now- particularly in Darwin which has a population of 50,000 and has 50 per cent of the population of the Territory. 
No,  Senator Georges,  I said that the population was 50,000. 1 think you will find that that is the true figure. 
For what it is worth about 50 per cent of the population of the Northern Territory live in Darwin. In Alice Springs there are some 15,000 people and there are people in the smaller centres. The situation in the Northern Territory is that the bulk of the population live in four or five centres. In fairness, I think we must recognise the people who are living further out in the Territory. I have mentioned on other occasions that the Territory has an area of about 540,000 square miles. If we were to adopt the one man- one vote approach and then wanted to have no more than a 10 per cent variation, what will happen in the Northern Territorythat is all we are talking about at the moment- is that we will have even more electorates than we have now. 
We have to give consideration, as  Senator Robertson  has indicated, to Aboriginal settlements, to the people in the mining towns and cattle stations. We have to be able to give some reasonable representation to the people in the outback. One can only achieve this if we have a reasonable variation between the city and the outback electorates.  Senator McLaren  has indicated that this move was initiated by the National Country Party. Far from it. Unfortunately, I have not had the opportunity to pass on to the members of the Labor Party a piece of paper- I am happy to do that- which indicates the size of the electorates and the number of voters in those electorates in the Northern Territory. It also indicates which parties are holding those various electorates. If one examines it, one can see that the Australian Labor Party holds quite a lot- it has a predominance really- of the country electorates. 
I  am wondering why the Labor Party wishes to change the electorates which would have the effect of bringing more people into the city electorates and leaving fewer people in the outback electorates. There is some balance in the situation as it now exists because the ALP has won the electorates of Arnhem, Fannie Bay, MacDonnell- Arnhem and MacDonnell are bush electorates- Milner, which is a city electorate, Sanderson, and Victoria River. Correspondingly, of course, the Country-Liberal Party has various electorates. Regardless of the political nature of the situation, in fairness to the people of the Territory- I have said this before- we should ensure that the people in the outback get reasonable representation and that the electorates become no bigger than they are now. Some of them are extremely large. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner we were discussing clause 13 of the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill 1978 and the variations of 10 percent, 20 per cent and so on. In particular we were looking at the proposal contained in sub-clauses (4) and (5) of clause 13. Sub-clause (5) reads: 
For the purposes of sub-section (4), each electoral division shall contain a number of electors not exceeding, or falling short of, the quota calculated under that sub-section by more than one-fifth of the quota. 
As I indicated previously, because of the large area of the Northern Territory and its small population, when looking at this situation the Committee must take into consideration the fact that people in the outlying areas must be assured of reasonable representation. Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I had circulated to the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  who is in charge of the Bill and to the Opposition Whip a review of the electoral districts in the Northern Territory. It sets out the various electorates of the Northern Territory, the size of those electorates and the number of voters within each electorate. There is also a breakdown of how these seats are held at present- either Country-Liberal Party, Australian Labor Party or Independent.  Mr Temporary Chairman  I seek leave to have this chart incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="077232197806083_65_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="077232197806083_66_2.jpg"></graphic>

I think the chart is indicative of the present situation. If one wishes to speak politically- and I guess that is what many honourable senators are doing- when one takes into consideration the 20 per cent variation, Labor Party senators will find that those electorates in which the Labor Party is represented now are well safeguarded. I do not think there is anything further to say on this matter, except perhaps to point to the situation in a couple of electorates. For example, Tiwi, which is held by the CLP, is 30,180 square kilometres in size and has a voting strength of 1,858, while Sanderson, which is held by the ALP, is only 34 square kilometres in size and has a voting strength of 2,927. 
Yes. Taking a comparison of the Sanderson electorate with the Tiwi electorate, and allowing a 20 per cent variation, one can see that there is no anomaly as far as representation is concerned. All in all, I believe that the proposal contained in this legislation is in keeping with the representation in the Territory. I believe that there should be no political repercussions about the matter because what the legislation ensures is that the people of the outback, the people in those far-flung areas- the people on Aboriginal settlements, in mining areas, on pastoral company leases and so on- will feel and will also find that there will be adequate representation. If we do not abide by this principle, and if the quota in the Northern Territory is reduced, I suggest we will find that there will be more and more electorates within the higher population areas of the Northern Territory and those people, who are as much a part of the Territory as the people in the towns, will suffer. 
I appreciate what  Senator Colston  has said. I appreciate also the fact that at least he sees the principle behind this situation. Of course, the honourable senator was talking about representation. After all, we are dealing with the Northern Territory now, but he was really talking about representation in the Federal sphere, whether it be by members of the House of Representatives or senators. I acknowledge his point about Northern Territory senators having special privileges which other senators do not have in regard to communicating with their constituents. 
I stand corrected. They are rights. 1 agree with the honourable senator. They are not privileges. The honourable senator must realise that we are not talking about a federal situation. We are talking about the Northern Territory being represented by members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. The situation is quite different there. The situation is more like that in the States, because members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, like members of the State parliaments, represent parts of the Territory which are divided into electorates. The nitty gritty of what we are discussing is what is going on in the various legislatures in the Territories and the States. 
The honourable senator mentioned various matters, including communication and so on. In the Northern Territory communication is extremely poor. I am now talking of the difficulties faced by the people of the outback. They have to use radio telephones, if they have that facility. The radio telephone system is overloaded. I can assure the honourable senator that communication in the Northern Territory is extremely poor. I do not intend to debate that matter now, except to indicate to honourable senators that I will continue to ask the Government to provide better lines of communication. As I said, the radio telephone system is overloaded. I have been out in the bush, so has  Senator Robertson.  No doubt he has had some experience in relation to this matter. In trying to reach base in Alice Springs or in Katherine on a radio telephone, one may sometimes have to wait an hour. It is an impossible situation. Apart from that, of course, we have Radio Australia and what have you. All the promises in the world have been made to provide better communication facilities for people in the outback, but that has not eventuated. As I have said, communications in the outback have deteriorated. I think we must take that into consideration. 
As the legislation deals with the Territory, I think we have to look at the special circumstances of the Territory. As I have said, it has a population of 100,000 people, the majority of whom live in the towns. The people who live in the outback certainly have to have representation. I believe that that representation has to be within reason. Under the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill we can make a reasonable assumption that the provision for a tolerance of one-fifth above and below the quota will ensure that those people in the outback will be heard. As I have indicated before, all the Opposition will do by reducing that tolerance from one-fifth to 10 per cent is to force people into the heavily populated areas, and thus reduce the representation afforded the outback areas. Because of the large area of the Northern Territory some people will find it physically impossible to cover all of their electorates to ensure that people living in those areas are properly represented. 
I would like to make one comment on the proposed amendment which reads: 
The Administrator shall convene a meeting of the Council if the Legislative Assembly, by resolution, so requests. 
After 1 July the Northern Territory will be moving into responsible government under the Northern Territory Executive. It is not the role of the Legislative Assembly to ask the Administrator to convene the Executive Council; the Administrator will convene meetings of the Council. This means of course, as we are talking about the Executive Council, that meetings of the Council will be held at the request of the Majority Leader. It has absolutely nothing to do with the parliamentary role of the Legislative Assembly. We are talking about executive government and the Council will be convened by the Administrator at the request of the Majority Leader. 
Just a brief word on the matter. The situation now of course is that following the transfer of powers all lands will be transferred from the Commonwealth to the Northern Territory. The lands having been transferred to the Northern Territory can, under Aboriginal land claims, be acquired under the Federal Act without any compensation to the Northern Territory. The situation can be taken a step further. It may be necessary for the Northern Territory if not to acquire, at least to lease, land which has become Aboriginal land under the Federal Act. The Northern Territory, under the provisions of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act, will have to pay a lease fee for the land. The situation could arise where land which has been made over to the Northern Territory could be acquired by the Commonwealth Government without compensation. If an Aboriginal land claim were successful the land would then be covered under the Federal Act. If the Territory is to have use of that land, which is understandable in certain circumstances, it will have to pay a lease fee. I think an illustration has already been given in the other House concerning the Borroloola police station. I think there is an anomaly. I would like to see the Government reexamine the situation. If the Territory has to use land which is acquired under a Federal Act it has to pay money for it. I see no reason why the Federal Government, if it wishes to acquire land under a Federal Act, should not pay compensation to the Northern Territory government. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. The National Aboriginal Education Committee has now been functioning for some 18 months. Is the Minister in a position to indicate what progress the Committee has made since it was set up and have any schemes or reports been made to the Minister in regard to Aboriginal education? 
The people of the Northern Territory and the Government of the Northern Territory will welcome the expression of goodwill in this motion in the Senate today, lt is fitting that this momentous milestone in political and constitutional change in the history of the Northern Territory should be marked with a most acceptable gift from Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth and the Federal Parliament. In the last 4 years many discussions have taken place between the Northern Territory and officers of the parliament on what would be a suitable gift to commemorate this momentous occasion. The mace which has been chosen and which will have engravings in keeping with the character of the Northern 
Territory will have a place of honour in the Parliament of the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 June 1 978: 
1 ) What Aboriginal settlements in the Northern Territory, South Australia and Western Australia particpate in the Community Development Employment Project (CDEP). 
Is it the intention of (he Government to extend the scheme in 1 978-79; if so, what settlements will be included. 
Has an evaluation been made of the program to date; if so, what are the details. 
The most telling point made in this debate so far was put forward by way of interjection a few minutes ago by  Senator Peter  Baume. He said that in Australia today bluetongue is only in a virus form and not in a disease form. A better understanding of this situation will be to the advantage of the cattle industry. I support this Bill which, under financial arrangements with the States and the Northern Territory, makes provision for payments to cattle producers affected by the control measures instituted by animal health authorities to prevent the spread of bluetongue virus. The Bill also provides for the acquisition and installation of virology laboratory equipment in Western Australia, Queensland and the Northern Territory for the purpose of improving cattle blood testing services. 
The discovery of the bluetongue virus- I stress the word 'virus'- had a serious effect on the live cattle export industry in the areas where it was located. It was found to be present substantially in the northern areas of Queensland and the Northern Territory and to a lesser extent in Western Australia. It actually destroyed a nicely developing industry. In the last three or four years the export of live cattle by ship or aircraft to our northern neighbours, particularly Hong Kong, has considerably increased. Eighty per cent of the live export cattle from the Northern Territory was shipped to Hong Kong. The fear that the purchase of live cattle from those areas of Australia would lead to the spread of the bluetongue disease to the countries of our clients to the north of Australia has meant that practically all export of live cattle has ceased except for a small amount to western Malaysia and similar countries. Because of the influence of the Chinese on Hong Kong, which was one of our main markets, exports to that area have ceased. Hong Kong looks to the Chinese to see whether any step that it takes is received favourably. China frowned upon the importation of our cattle. So, Australian cattle exports to Hong Kong have been discontinued. 
The cattle normally shipped to overseas markets from the Northern Territory and the Cape York area are of a type ordinarily not sent to abattoirs in Australia. At least this is the situation in the Northern Territory. There the types of cattle are more suited to live cattle sales rather than taking them to abattoirs, such as the Katherine meat works. This area is now an endemic area. There can be no movement whatsoever of live cattle and the cattle must be killed. My understanding is that the Katherine meat works is now so booked out with cattle coming from the western pan of the Territory and the Barkly Tablelands that there is little room for cattle from the endemic area. In fact the frame of the cattle from the endemic area is not well suited to Australian abattoirs. This has brought about a tremendously difficult financial situation, although such a situation existed before the bluetongue scare because of poor prices and lack of markets. Even before the advent of bluetongue the cattle producers in the north were on their knees and in a most serious situation. 
This brought about further complications because, as honourable senators will be aware, Australia is endeavouring at the moment to become free from brucellosis and tuberculosis by 1984-85. But the fact is that because of the poor financial situation, many cattle producers were brought to their knees and were not able to handle their cattle, so that mustering went by the board- in fact, one or two people had to move from their stations while some just sat down on their stations and carried out no work or maintenance whatsoever- and cattle were loose and on wildlife and Aboriginal reserves. Also there is a very large buffalo and wild pig population. All this has to be taken into consideration in regard to the eradication of brucellosis. The point I am making is that the bluetongue scare has brought stock maintenance practically to a standstill so that it is most difficult to carry out an eradication or testing campaign for brucellosis. I suppose that one must be grateful for the financial assistance which the Government is now providing. At least it is financial assistance to these people. 1 hope that it will enable them once again to bring money into the industry so that once more the activities of the cattle stations will commence and stock will be brought under control. 
The setting up of the virology laboratory will be of tremendous assistance. The bluetongue virus, when it was discovered, caught Australia unprepared to a significant degree because it was not possible to handle the large number of stock whose blood requires testing. In the last few months there has been much discussion in the industry. There have been delegations from the Northern Territory and north Queensland. Together they have made representations to the Government indicating that because of the severity of the financial strain, the maintenance of properties is practically nil. For the benefit of all Australians it is up to the Government to give financial assistance to bring about some easing of the situation. I point out once again that bluetongue is a virus and not a disease. It does not affect the cattle. As a layman I do not know, but perhaps bluetongue can be associated with the three-day fever from which cattle suffer. In any case it appears to have no effect on the cattle. In fact, I understand that when the cattle are killed, bluetongue disappears from the carcass within hours. So meat sales are not affected. All these controls and regulations have been introduced to protect the sheep people of the South. Cattle producers have to put up with them and it is only right that they should be given some financial assistance to keep them in the game at least. 
I notice that in the last few weeks there have been indications that a new bluetongue virus has been discovered in New South Wales, perhaps a very virulent one. I remind honourable senators that it is a virus, not a disease. Perhaps because of the sophistication of the laboratories and the expertise of the technicians in them, or because there is more awareness of the problem since bluetongue was found in samples tested in America, Australia is more wary and is looking for more of this type of virus in cattle. No one can put a date on when the virus discovered in New South Wales arrived in Australia. Perhaps it came out in the First Fleet. Perhaps the bluetongue virus in the north of Australia- there is no way of disputing its existence as it has been there for many years- came out with the first settlers. 
The point I am making is that while we have to be wary and protect the sheep and wool industry in other parts of Australia, we have to be careful that we do not continue to develop a scare campaign that will destroy Australian markets overseas forever and a day. Once again I say that we are talking about a virus, not a disease. There is no bluetongue disease in Australia as far as I know. Perhaps bluetongue disease can be produced in a laboratory under exaggerated conditions but it does not exist outside laboratories in Australia. In view of the sophistication of laboratories now I think it is on the cards that we will see more and more of this type of thing emanating from laboratories. If we publicise the discovery of every new virus we will put the fear of Hell into our overseas markets. We may destroy them. We have to consider the whole situation. The Government should become a type of buffer for the work that comes out of the laboratories. I am suggesting that the Government should firmly indicate what a new virus is rather than have statements coming out from laboratories all over the country saying that a new type of bluetongue virus has been found and so destroying our cattle export markets. 
I welcome this legislation. Many other things have to be done to ensure the future of the cattle industry in the Northern Territory. I know that what I suggest is a monumental task but 1 think Australia will have to face up to bringing about a financial situation in the North whereby the cattle population can be handled and such things as blood testing carried out. Australia has to look seriously at the eradication of wild buffalo- and I am not referring to the buffalo kept within fences. I think the day has come when Australia must look to the eradication of the buffalo and feral pigs. That would be a monumental task but for the good of the beef industry in northern Australia we have to face up to these issues. 
I could be wrong but I understand that, fortunately, other animals, such as kangaroos, do not carry this disease. As far as I know it is carried only in pigs, cattle and buffalo. I support the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 12 April 1978: 
1 ) What are the airfare charges per kilometre for passengers travelling on: 
the Brisbane-Cairns route; (b) the CairnsGoveDarwin route; (c) the Sydney-Alice Springs route; 
the Adelaide-Alice Springs route; (e) the AliceSpringsDarwin route; (f) the Darwin-Perth route; and (g) interports on these routes. 
Will the reintroduction of the fuel subsidy scheme have any effect on airfares in outback areas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) Is a $20 landing fee charged to residents of outback stations in order that their mail be delivered; if so, what is the reason for this excess cost over postal charges to the detriment of the outback dweller, when people in areas of higher population concentration have no excess mail charges. 
) Will the Government consider bringing the charges for the delivery of mail to all outback people back to parity with their city cousins. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 30  May  1978: 
Does the Commissioner for Taxation intend to impose a tax on housing which forms part of an employment arrangement for employees; if so, will the Government give consideration to rejecting the move, particularly in the interests of those employers, whether Government or private enterprise, who need special consideration to attract employees to the outback. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. Following the series of talks that have taken place recently between the Northern Land Council and the Government concerning uranium royalties, is the Minister in a position to indicate to the Senate the present situation in relation to the financial arrangements? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 30 May 1978: 
Are special funds allocated for the following activities: (a) commercial air charter; and (b) Air Force and Navy reconnaissance, in view of the absence of a Coastguard Service in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 1 June 1978: 
What is the Government's intention concerning the present structure ofthe Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, in view of the Government's proposal that the Northern Territory be granted self-government on 1 July 1978. 
What will the Department's responsibilities be in the Northern Territory. 
3 ) What is the present staffing establishment. 
Are all positions filled; if not, are the vacancies to be advertised. 
Is it intended to review staff ceilings and establishment levels, particularly in view ofthe anticipated development in uranium mining and the construction of a new uranium town. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
Does the Government intend to upgrade facilities at the Alice Springs airport by providing a taxiway to facilitate the movement of aircraft. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Voicing the concern of many people in the north, the Chief Minister for the Northern Territory Government and the Mayor of the City of Darwin have called upon the Federal Government to take all necessary precautions to ensure that no winged insects, et cetera, that may endanger Australian primary industries, particularly forestry, enter Australia in Vietnamese refugee boats, many of which are now rotting hulks in the reaches of Darwin harbour. Is the Minister able to state what actions have been taken to safeguard Australia from this danger and whether they have proved sufficient? What action is being taken to dispose of these refugee boats? As there is little doubt that many more refugee boats will arrive in the future, what action is to be taken to prevent our primary industries from being endangered? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) When is the Radio Australia installation at Cox Peninsula, Northern Territory, damaged by Cyclone Tracy, to be returned to operational condition, as recommended by the Green report. 
What action has been taken to set up two transmitters in the Darwin area, planned prior to Cyclone Tracy, to beam out over the Australian outback, in order to upgrade communications. 
I am very pleased to be able to speak in this debate today and pleased that the matter is being aired. I do not approach this debate with the depression with which the speakers before me have. Nor do I see the future as being bleak. As the other speakers have done, I will endeavour to illustrate the story with figures and facts. I believe that some of the figures that have been mentioned today are strangely amiss. The Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt,  when he introduced this debate, said that the scheme of all national newspapers was that there was bleakness and despair within the home building industry. Yet not all newspapers adopt that theme. I draw to the attention of the Senate a different type of report in the  Courier-Mail  on 1 1 August, a few days ago, which is headed: 'A revival home building industry is tipped'. The report states: 
A revival in Australia 's home building industry is tipped as stocks of unsold homes run down over the next few months. 
The brighter outlook is forecast in the Indicative Planning Council 's interim report for 1 978-79. 
The council said excess stocks seemed to be depressing new activity in most States. 
These stocks for at least some time were expected to satisfy part of the demand for new housing. 
The council said it expected the stocks of unsold dwellings to decline over the early part of this financial year. 
The rate of decline, however, would vary from region to region. 
This is part of the problem. Perhaps I am not correct in what I believe  Senator Chipp  said but I thought he said that he wondered what inflation over the last few years had to do with the housing situation today. For some 13 years I was part of the Housing Commission in the Northern Territory. I found the housing industry to be one of the most sensitive industries in Australia. It is sensitive to change and to costs. This was seen in the mid- 1 970s when there was a large injection of funds into the home building industry which resulted in a lack of tenderers for contracts. With this lack of competition prices rose. There was a shortage of sub-contractors and there was competition for those tradesmen and so the price of houses rose. Costs rose dramatically. 
One root of the problem was that inflation went up to 18 per cent. Honourable senators will remember that interest rates rose. The dramatically increased cost of houses and the interest rate which increased brought about a situation for the ordinary people in the street and for young married couples which made it difficult for them to borrow money to buy their home and to service the debt. Of course the indicators were such that many people did not realise that there was a growing stock of houses on the market. These houses were not being rented or, more particularly, purchased. Speculators were behind the times. The result was that suddenly it was found that in most States there was a huge stock of houses on the market but there was no demand for them. I say there was no demand because of the huge inflation rate and because of the lack of ability in young people to service the loan on their houses. 
Even now there are stocks of houses in the southern States which are still waiting to be used. Because the building industry was sensitive to this sort of situation there was a general collapse in the home building industry. With the inflation rate and over-demand the industry outpriced itself. This is the problem that Australia faces today with its products. It has outpriced itself. Its products are too dear. There is only one answer to this problem.  Senator Chipp  touched on it to a degree when he talked about the interest rate. He said that the Victorian Government put some $25m on the market at an interest rate of  Th  per cent and that it went very quickly. I expect that the answer to the problem of the home building industry and of the whole situation in Australia will come about in the next few months. I think we have seen the commencement of that situation now. I am referring to stable economic conditions with building costs becoming much more stable. I think that building costs may have risen some 6 per cent in the last year. With the interest rate beginning to drop- it has dropped in some places by half a per cent to one per cent- I think we can very optimistically expect that in this next year we will see it continue to fall. 
This drop in the interest rate will stimulate young persons to build or buy their homes and, more importantly, it will enable them to finance the purchase and service the loan. Through this move we will see extra demand and the home building industry will once again get on its feet. But it can only remain on its feet in a stable situation such as when we have economic stability. Unfortunately, over the last few years we have not had that. We have had cost increases which, as I said before, have outpriced the person in the street.  Senator Gietzelt  gave various examples. I understood him to say that A. V. Jennings Industries Ltd, which is one of the biggest home builders in Australia, at the moment does not have one house being built for the market in Canberra. Is this not indicative of the situation? The company is not building because there is no demand. There is no demand by young people because the price and the interest rate are too high. If there were stability in the industry in Canberra- that is, cost stability and lower interest rates- I assure  Senator Gietzelt  that, even though I have not spoken to a member of the company, it would be one of the first to commence home building in Canberra. This will happen when there is demand and stability in the industry and low rental costs. 
I am very sympathetic to the building industry and to the problems that it faces today. I believe there is only one way it will get back on its feet. I have indicated that. Just pouring money into the building industry at the moment will not cure the ills. The cure is demand. As I have said before, most people cannot foot the bill. It has been said that there is no money in the market place for the purchase of homes. I have made it my business in the last few months in wandering around Australia, particularly in the last week, to investigate this claim although I did not anticipate that this matter would be debated today. In Perth I found that the banks had money to lend. They were looking for customers. However, the building societies were more than competitive with the banks. It appeared that the building societies were outstripping the banks in their activities. Nevertheless there was money available. It was my understanding that if a young person or if any person wished to buy a house today and if he had the ability to service the rather huge debt at a high interest rate he would find the money readily available. But who wants young people or single people with families- this is a situation which is growing now- as Australian citizens to pay for the sins of the last few years when inflation got out of control to such an extent that it was one of the highest rates in the developed countries. Why should they have to pay for that? 
The only way this problem can be overcome is to continue in the direction we are going now, and to bring the inflation rate down, hopefully in this next year, to 5 per cent or 6 per cent. This would bring our inflation rate down so that it would be one of the lowest in the developed countries. With this economic stability we will find that home buyers, whether they be single persons, families, or pensioners, will be in a much better situation to get a house. 
Various provisions in the Budget will be of considerable assistance to people. The welfare housing allocation of $3 16m ushers in a new approach to the activities of housing authorities. More autonomy is to be given to the States in the allocation of funds and the rental income of authorities will reflect the capacity of tenants to pay. The number of new dwellings to be built is expected to be the same as for 1 977-78 and the pensioner housing scheme is to be increased considerably. I do not support the theme of this debate. I believe that it is far too gloomy and that times are changing. The indicators prove that the home building industry in Australia is on the up and up, and the people of Australia will benefit from these improvements in the months to come. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Act 1969, 1 present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
1 ) High school Nhulunbuy, Northern Territory; 
Enoggera Military Area Stage 2 Development, Queensland. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
Will the Government return funds, particularly to such developing industries as prawning and fishing, following the abolition of the variable interest ratio requirement of the Reserve Bank. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. Last year's Budget contained an allocation of $ 1 .6m for the purchase of LANDSAT, the earth resources technology system of satellites, which is recognised as a valuable supplement to information obtained by aerial photography and ground survey for resources management purposes. Also, I understand that the LANDSAT facilities will have the antenna installed at Alice Springs with data processing to be done in Canberra. I ask: Is the Minister in a position to advise when the project is likely to commence? How many people will LANDSAT employ directly? Will its operations be funded from the public purse? 
I also address to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question regarding Timor. Reports emanating from a group of ambassadors, including an Australian ambassador, who visited Timor recently at the request of the Indonesian Government indicate that it appeared that the Timorese resistance has now succumbed to the Indonesian forces and that survivors, including innocent women and children, were dying of starvation. In view of these reports, does the Government intend to take action to bring immediate relief for these people by providing much needed medical supplies, by assisting in the rehabilitation of East Timor and by the reuniting of so many Timorese families which have been fragmented by the Indonesian intrusion? If so- last but not least- will the Indonesian Government accept aid that may be proffered for the Timorese people? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
Did the Northern Territory Teachers' Federation claim, in a press statement of 30 May 1978, that, despite the announcement in May 1977 of the National Strategy on Aboriginal Employment and the introduction of a Community Development Employment Projects scheme, interested communities have had difficulty in receiving funds. 
Will the Government expedite the creation of needed Aboriginal teaching and ancillary positions to assist in overcoming the high incidence of unemployment among Aboriginal school leavers. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 June 1978: 
1 ) What action is taken to investigate applicants to ensure they are deemed Aboriginal in each of the following areas in accordance with the relevant Act: (a) Aboriginal housing; (b) Aboriginal housing loans with 2 per cent interest rate; (c) Aboriginal Loans Commission loans for private and business purposes; (d) Land Rights claims under the Federal Act; (e) Federal Act; (e) medical treatment in regard to fares, aircharter, etc.; (g) Aboriginal sporting grants; (h) Aboriginal cultural grants; (i) entry on to Aboriginal lands and permit to remain there; (j ) authority to remain on pastoral leases; (k) authority to hunt game, fish and gather eggs and to remove them from Wildlife Reserves; (1) Aboriginal Legal Aid assistance; (m) medical and dental treatment; (n) employment in special circumstances; (o) Aboriginal Benefit Fund; and (p) any other areas not mentioned but where people who are part-Aboriginal but not identifying as Aboriginal people may be applicants for special Aboriginal assistance. 
Has any application under the headings in (1) been refused on the grounds that the person concerned did not identify as an Aboriginal. 
What is considered to be a reasonable time period before Government or a funding organisation recognises a person who wishes to identify as an Aboriginal. 
Has the definition of Aboriginal under the relevant Acts been disregarded as a basis for financial support. 
Do all applicants receive financial assistance without query; if not, what, for example, is the position of an applicant who lives to all intents and purposes as a suburbanite employed in an urban industry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) What restrictions have been placed on the movement of stock within Australia, particularly the Northern Territory, because of the Bluetongue disease. 
Has there been any change in restrictions on the movement of livestock to other countries, and what is the present attitude to overseas client countries which import livestock from Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) How many boats have arrived in the Darwin harbour carrying Vietnamese refugees. 
How many boats have been returned to their owners in Vietnam. 
3 ) How many boats are still in Darwin harbour. 
How many are seaworthy, and who are considered to be the legal owners. 
Has the Government any claim over these boats; if so, can the boats be used on the Australian coast by the fishing or other appropriate, industry. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Construction. I refer to Goulburn Island off the north coast of Arnhem Land, where the Aboriginal people experienced an extreme water shortage towards the end of the last dry season. Following representations, certain works have been programmed to alleviate the shortage, which was particularly serious last year. Can the Minister advise now whether planning and programming have been completed to overcome possible future shortages of water, particularly in the latter part of this year? 
I support the Pig Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill 1978 and commend the indus.iry upon the action it has taken in bringing about an increase in levy fees, which will stimulate research and promotion within the country and no doubt assist exports. It was very interesting to note from the second reading speech in another place of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that within the industry various committees, such as the Pig Industry Research Committee and the Pigmeat Promotion Advisory Committee, refer to the Minister requests for increased levies before they are submitted to the Governor-General. I believe this is a very healthy sign: The industry itself is prepared, without government assistance, to increase the levy in order to improve techniques in the production of pigmeat and in the promotion of sales of such meat. 
This is one of those unusual measures upon the first reading of which, in the Senate, we can refer to various matters. It is my intention to speak briefly on matters associated with animals other than pigs. I turn to the beef industry, to discuss briefly the situation concerning bluetongue which, although it is a disease that affects sheep and not beef, has had an enormous effect on that industry. It is the beef industry of Australia that has had to suffer the effects of the calamity that has occurred. I say calamity because the disease of bluetongue has not been found in Australia. Only the virus has been found. Yet, to all intents and purposes, that news has been received by the nations that import beef and livestock from Australia in such a way that they are acting as if the disease itself has been found in Australia. I emphasise, not a disease but a virus has been found. 
To go back over the last year or so, since the finding in the Northern Territory by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation of the bluetongue virus known as serotype 20 in a group of insects collected there, various steps, which I shall outline, have been taken. It is mainly the Northern Territory that has been affected. I say 'mainly the Northern Territory' because I recognise that the disease has had a severe effect in the north of Queensland. In the Northern Territory an endemic area was proclaimed in which absolutely no movement of cattle was allowed. Two other areas of the Northern Territory were affected to a lesser extent and movement was allowed to a greater degree. As I have indicated in the Senate before, at the time of the outbreak the live beef market in various neighbour countries to our north was rapidly increasing. The market collapsed overnight. In some areas there has been a slight easing. In the main areas of export, such as Kong Kong, whose large neighbour, 
China, is alongside it, there has been no easing of the situation. A very healthy export industry, which as I said before was developing rapidly, was cut off overnight. 
The producers were so concerned that at least two big delegations came to visit the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  at Parliament House, Canberra, late last year and this year. They asked for various things, such as full compensation for mustering, holding, handling and other costs involved in bluetongue testing for control or for movement of stock; the full market price for animals slaughtered because of bluetongue infection, including valuable stud cattle; carry-on finance at no interest and a moratorium on Commonwealth Development Bank loans, primary producer board loans and all other government loans; and the remittance of lease rentals until the industry is re-established and an extension of eligibility for carry-on finance to all affected properties. These were reasonable requests- and still are, in many respects. 
The beef industry has been in an extremely poor condition. This has been brought about by distance from markets, poor returns and so on. When bluetongue first hit the industry, the industry was practically on its knees. In fact, the Government, because of these various representations to it, saw fit to make certain moves. Honourable senators will recall that on 1 7 May 1978 the Government announced, subject to agreement by the States to share costs on a dollar for dollar basis, an aid program which would include payment at the rate of $3 per head of cattle to offset mustering costs incurred in bluetongue virus control and for movement of stock in the control areas in north Queensland, the Northern Territory and the Kimberleys. A maximum payment of $3,000 per property was proposed for mustering during the period 1 January 1978 to 31 December 1978. Also, payments were to be made to producers to compensate for the cost of blood testing of cattle, at the rate of $5 per head for survey and surveillance testing and $10 per test for movement testing for export. The payments were available to all producers required to test both within and without the control areas. Payments were to be made for all tests conducted to the end of 1978, including those undertaken since the commencement of the bluetongue incident in October 1977. It was mentioned also that a grant of $225,000 would be made for the urgent acquisition of virology laboratory equipment. Western Australia was allocated $50,000. Queensland $75,000 and the Northern Territory $100,000. A laboratory is now part of the new Northern Territory Government's works program for this financial year. 
I have taken this opportunity to outline the problems that have been experienced and the aid that has been given by the Government. As the delegations have said to the Government, the advent of the bluetongue endemic area meant that about 1 50,000 square miles of cattle country will go practically out of production; assets worth over $500,000 will become worthless and exports worth about $10m a year will be lost to Australia; and 25 years of valuable and costly government experimental work on pastures and cattle in the Top End will go for nothing. Since the outbreak of bluetongue various moves have been taken. Further research is being done. I have here a statement by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  on further bluetongue research. I have discussed the incorporation of the statement with the Minister and have shown a copy of it to the Opposition. I seek leave to have the statement incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 20 August, 1978. FURTHER BLUETONGUE RESEARCH 
Further research into insect species capable of transmitting bluetongue virus will be carried out by CSIRO, the Minister for Science,  Senator J.  J. Webster, said today. 

 Senator Webster said the future emphasis of the bluetongue research at CSIRO's Division of Animal Health would be towards: 
Ascertaining which insect species are capable of transmitting bluetongue virus and determining the precise distribution range, seasonality and biology of the species. 
Studies of the capacity of bluetongue virus to cause disease. 
In collaboration with the Animal Virus Research Institute, Pirbright, U.K., CSIRO will also conduct studies on problems encountered with diagnostic tests', the Minister said. 
Investigations on improved methods of vaccinating against the strain of bluetongue virus discovered in Australia will also be initiated. 
However, the level of pathogenicity that would be expected if it were transmitted by its insect vector into susceptible sheep under stress in the field, is unknown. 
For many years the CSIRO Division of Animal Health has been engaged in a nationwide research program aimed at determining the potential insect vectors of diseases of livestock. 
Considerable attention has been devoted to the insect genus Culicoides because it was known that species of this genus are the vectors of bluetongue in overseas countries. CSIRO scientists have evidence that at least two species of the genus Culicoides found in Australia are capable of transmitting the virus. 
In conjunction with this program, the Division of Animal Health has also been co-ordinating the regular bloodsampling in 5 1 cattle herds scattered around Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
This was part of the sentinel herd scheme established by the Division in 1 969 to monitor viruses in cattle- with emphasis on insect-borne viruses. 
Since the announcement of the isolation of bluetongue virus, the Organization has re-deployed staff into bluetongue work and the effort will be increased yet again by a further re-deployment. 
To date all staff have been involved in urgent activities such as the development of diagnostic tests, the preparation of diagnostic reagents, and the conduct of nationwide surveys in conjunction with the States to determine the spread of the virus'. 

 Senator Webster added that the Division was gradually phasing out its work on diagnostic testing as the States took over. 
This information statement is of considerable interest. The statement indicates that CSIRO scientists have evidence that at least two insect species found in Australia are capable of transmitting the virus. Perhaps that has not been said before. Perhaps one of the species was the one that was found in New South Wales in the last few months. However, at least work is taking place. Unfortunately, while the work is taking place the cattle industry still has many problems. 
I refer now to a question which I asked the Minister for Science, who represents the Minister for Primary Industry in this chamber, on 16 August this year and which related to restrictions on the movement of stock within Australia restrictions on the movement of livestock to other countries and so on. Once again I gave the Minister and the Opposition notice that I intended to seek the incorporation of the question and answer. I seek leave to have them incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) What restrictions have been placed on the movement of stock within Australia, particularly the Northern Territory, because of the Bluetongue disease. 
Has there been any change in restrictions on the movement of livestock to other countries, and what is the present attitude of overseas client countries which import livestock from Australia. 

 Senator Webster, the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
I) Bluetongue control areas were introduced following the discovery of a bluetongue virus ( serotype 20 ) in northern Australia in October 1977. The Australian Agricultural Council has continually reviewed the original restrictions and the present movement centre's arc as follows: cattle from properties with no evidence of active or recent infection can move out of the bluetongue control areas without further testing. This applies to slaughter, breeding and store cattle. cattle from properties with evidence of recent or active infection are required to satisfy further conditions before movement. Slaughter cattle may be consigned for slaughter within 14 days of leaving the control area either to a sale or direct to an abattoir without further testing. Breeders and store cattle must be further blood tested before movement and only cattle negative to this test will be allowed to move to a suitable location in the control area for a further retest after 14 days. Cattle positive to this second test must be removed for direct slaughter or returned to the property of origin. Cattle negative to the second test may move out of control areas. 
Insecticide treatment before movement is no longer required for bluetongue control. 
These modifications minimise the risk to the sheep and cattle industry in the remainder of the country and reduce restrictions on northern cattle producers. Tasmania, and Western Australia in reference to its south-western areas, have reaffirmed that the testing and certification of -.ill ruminants entering these areas will remain in force for the time being. 
Yes. The present bluetongue certification requirements of overseas client countries are: 
Total Bans 
Argentina, Bulgaria, Canada, Fiji, the German Democratic Republic. New Zealand, People's Republic of China. Romania, United Kingdom/Northern Ireland. Western Samoa. 
Total Bans on Control Areas or Areas North of 18S Latitude with Certification and Testing for the Remaining Areas 
Hong Kong, Indonesia, Iran (sheep from Queensland). Kuwait, West Malaysia (breeding cattle only), Philippines, Republic of Korea (north of 22S latitude). 
Certification and Testing Only 
Iran. Japan. West Malaysia (slaughter cattle only). Mauritius, Papua New Guinea, Taiwan, Brunei, Sabah, Sarawak. 
The only recent change is by the Republic of Korea which has lifted its total ban on the importation of ruminants, and by Papua New Guinea which lifted its total ban on ruminants. 
I have had the question and answer incorporated in order to save time and to indicate to the industry and to people who are interested in the problem of bluetongue what the actual situation is today. I draw particular attention to the problems that still exist with the sale of livestock overseas. The answer shows that many countries still have total bans on the importation of Australian live beef. Until the problem can be overcome and countries can be assured that no danger exists in importing cattle livestock from Australia for killing, the beef industry in Australia and particularly in the Northern Territory will remain in considerable trouble. 
However, this is not quite the case in the Northern Territory, which has made some step forward. The new Minister for Industrial Development.  Mr Roger  Steele, announced in July last that the Territory Government had agreed to new bluetongue zoning proposals which would free a large number of stations from movement controls on cattle. The scheme, which has been agreed to by the various States, will replace the present restricted zone that has applied for the past eight months with a two-zone system. The Minister made various comments regarding this situation. He said that the scheme represented a major breakthrough for Territory producers and would mean that at least 20 more properties would be able to move cattle without restriction. I am now referring to the Australian scene, not to overseas movements. The proposed free zone would consist of the Alice Springs district, most of the Barkly district and the southern Victoria River districts which run into many hundreds of thousands of square miles. In the proposed control area any property which was free or showed signs of serological evidence only in older cattle there would be no restriction on movements. On properties in the control zone where young cattle showed virus activity two specific tests would be required 14 days apart before movement would be allowed. As I have indicated, he also stresses that the proposed controls are only within Australia and that the existing export restrictions outlined in the paper I have had incorporated in  Hansard  still remain. 
Naturally the people in the primary industries in the outback of the Northern Territory are extremely concerned. As an indication I read one or two excerpts from a letter written by a  Mr Moore  who is recognised as a leading cattleman in the Top End of the Northern Territory. He is general manager of a place called Mount Bundey which is one of the W. R. Grace Australia Ltd properties. He was referring to the legislation that was passed in the Federal Houses of Parliament a little while ago relating to the financial assistance that would be given to the producers affected by the bluetongue virus controls. I believe that letters such as this warrant airing. The writer is a commonsense, stable cattleman. Without any emotion or hysterics he outlines the situation. He recognises the value and worth of government assistance and he makes suggestions that could possibly assist the industry and bring about a more satisfactory solution. He said:. 
The Bill itself is very general, however, no doubt regulations  wili  be drafted shortly and then we can get a better feel for the impact on producers. I have talked to a number of Top End cattlemen and without question, the S3 per head and S5 per head payments will be very well received. 
So far as the $10 per head for movement testing is concerned, this will prove of great assistance, although, there seems to be some question as to how widely this will be applied. My understanding is that the $10 per head will apply only to those animals which pass negative to the test and are actually moved or exported. This does not help a producer with the animals which pass positive and which thus must be retained on the property as a possible future source of infection, or else sent to the local abattoir probably at distress prices. 
We well know what he meant when he talked about distress prices. A distress price is the price of an animal which has very little market value. He went on to say: 
Heavy bullocks probably won't present that much of a problem as the abattoirs are paying reasonably well for this class of animal. Lighter steers which prove positive are only fetching low prices and thus there is a natural inclination to hold them over for another year and then sell them to the works. 
I think his comments can be very helpful not only to the industry but also to government in assessing what future action can be taken.  Mr Moore  continued: 
I cannot help but feel that a more satisfactory solution would be to encourage producers to send all positive 's to the abattoir (irrespective of weight) immediately following testing and this could be done by making even these animals eligible for the $10 per head. I know there is possibility of abuse, however, if at the time of drafting (which is done under Stock Inspector supervision), all positive's were marked and loaded out direct to the Works, this would overcome much of the problem. 
Alternatively, compensation could be paid on all positive slaughtered in the same way as in TB and Brucellosis reactors. 
He then states that it would be greatly appreciated if his thoughts on the scheme were put forward. As I said before, he is a man well qualified in the beef industry. I believe that the advice of such a man should be heeded. 
The virus has been transmitted by a mite, an insect. I think that insect has been isolated. It is my understanding that this insect, this mite, that has caused so much damage to the industry- once again I say that it has brought about the virus not the disease- has been air borne and could well have been blown in from our northern neighbours. 
I understand that it brings about a type of reaction in animals but that this disappears. It actually disappears at some times of the year and then once again there is reinfection. No doubt the experts know much more than I do but it appears that much more research work has to be done. The matter on which I now wish to speak is not a small one but it will take less time. I wish to speak briefly once again about animals in the outback. A feral animal inquiry board has been set up in the outback of the 
Northern Territory. I think this is of particular significance not only for the Northern Territory but also for Australia as a whole. For many years now there have been very many discussions about the value of feral animals to Australia. Also there has been a great deal of talk about the damage that feral animals cause in Australia. In fact a question was asked yesterday by a senator from Queensland about a feral animal. I think that person wanted that particular feral animalthe cat- to be saved. He thought that we should pussy-foot around with the cat and treat it very gently. 
It would be a catastrophe. I agree with the honourable senator. That particular feral animal is a catastrophe for Australia now. The domestic cat that has gone wild has become a very fearsome and ferocious animal throughout Australia. I do not think we fully recognise the damage that it is doing to the small bird life and the animal life- the lizards and so on and all those other small animal citizens- of Australia. I believe that the cat has already removed some species and that many others are endangered by this animal which has the hunting instincts of a tiger. I suggest that rather than being looked upon as a gentle animal that should be retained, this animal should be hunted and exterminated and a bounty put on its head wherever possible. We see this happen in Fiji. Anybody who has been to Fiji will have seen the absolute consternation that occurs in the islands if the residents find that a cat is loose on their land. I was with the people on a particular island one day when it was discovered that a cat was loose. Practically the whole community turned out to hunt it down because they realised the dangers of that animal. 
However, I was discussing the feral animal inquiry board. This board now for the first time- I do not know whether it has happened anywhere else- is looking at the question of the future of feral animals in this part of Australia. I applaud the fact that the board has been established and has its terms of reference and is now working. Many questions have to be asked and answered as to the future of various animals that are looked upon as being in varying degrees either a pest or of some commercial value to Australia. I refer to various animals such as the dingo that are being investigated now. We know that for 10 or 20 years the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has carried out research in the outback on the dingo. If I remember correctly part of that research was financed by sections of the cattle industry. Substantial subsidies were given to the CSIRO to carry out that work. As those payments have ceased, the research work has been discontinued. I think that that is unfortunate as those who were carrying out this research work on the dingo were really getting down to an understanding of the basics of this animal. If further research had been carried out, the findings would have been of extreme interest to Australia. 
I mention next the buffalo. Exports of buffalo meat have been worth millions of dollars to Australia. Buffalo meat has been used for human or animal consumption. Our trade with Germany benefited by $2m to $3m a year through buffalo meat exports. For various reasons concerned with interpretations as to the classification of the type of meat that it was, that export trade in buffalo meat was lost. This loss was very costly. The future of the buffalo is a controversial matter. Should it be removed, hunted out, exterminated completely or allowed to remain. I will not pre-empt or forecast what the board may decide but I must say that the domesticated buffalo has a commercial value to the Northern Territory and thus to Australia. It will continue to carry disease, as it does now, while it runs wild. The future improvement, control and stabilisation of the beef industry in the north of Aus.traslia depend upon the control and domestication of such animals as the buffalo. 
In this context, I refer to the pig, which is the subject of the Bill now before the Senate. This animal must be viewed- no doubt it is- as another curse on Australia. As a carrier of tuberculosis and such, the pig endangers in the Top End the beef industry. As we all know, endeavours are being made to eradicate by 1984 diseases such as brucellosis and tuberculosisbrucellosis particularly- in this big industry which contains many hundreds of thousands of animals in the Northern Territory. 
Last but not least I mention the rabbit. The rabbit problem is one of the reasons why I have taken the time to speak on this Bill. When these days the rabbit problem is mentioned, I suppose we think of the time 10 years, 20 years or 30 years ago when Australia was absolutely ravaged by plagues of rabbits. The destruction caused to this country by rabbits was so complete that in some areas not a blade of grass was left as feed for cattle or sheep. But by various means, including diseases such as myxomatosis, the rabbit to a degree has disappeared from the rural scene in most parts of Australia. Where it has not disappeared, its numbers have been controlled. We do not see the problems caused by rabbit"; that were experienced years ago. But there remain areas in Australia that are still very much contaminated and over-run by rabbits. The creatures are leaving the country absolutely desolated. 
The Northern Territory has experienced good seasons for seven or eight years now. Rainfall that used to average, say, 10 inches a year, has averaged from 18 inches up to even 30 inches a year recently. The country has been rejuvenated. The comparison between the condition of that country now and its state in the drought years of the 1950s and early 1960s is absolutely amazing. Last week people close to the Northern Territory-South Australian border in the Erldunda area south of Alice Springs invited  Mr Sam  Calder, the Federal member for the Northern Territory, and me to visit their districts. We saw a botanical garden the like of which I have never seen before. Every type of wild flower and shrub was in full flower. It was a beautiful sight. Then we came across literally hundreds of square miles of desolation where the country appeared as though it was suffering drought conditions. 
Yes. This area has been a breeding ground of rabbits for many years. The use of neither myxomatosis nor 1080 has eradicated the rabbit problem. Not only was the ground bare of growth but also were the trees and shrubs ringbarked. It is hard to imagine this, but rabbits in such areas not only eat from the ground but also actually climb trees. This claim is not fallacious. In areas such as this evidence can be seen where rabbits actually get into the boughs of trees in their endeavours to eat every portion of those trees. And so the trees are killed. 
The point I am making is that it is ridiculous in these times of good seasons that such rich country should be denuded. I wonder what can be done. There has been much discussion about the introduction of the rabbit flea. Fears about its use have been expressed. The rabbit flea is another method by which myxomatosis can be introduced into rabbit populations. People in the community have feared that the rabbit flea would infect dogs and other types of domesticated animals and bring about chaos. But, as far as I know, this view is a fallacy. My understanding is that rabbit fleas will live only on pregnant does and perhaps on young rabbits. I understand that this would have tremendous effects which would reduce the numbers of rabbits rapidly. I suggest to the Government and the Minister that they should not look upon this area as containing a problem local to the border of South Australia and the Northern Territory alone but as an area that could continue to be a source of potential danger to and contamination of many areas of Australia if it remains a breeding ground. I support the legislation. I think the pig breeders and the pig industry of Australia are to be congratulated for their efforts in bring about more research on and promotion of their product. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. The people of the north have been very mindful of Australian security on the north coast and they have continued to press for the upgrading of the Port of Darwin. The Government of the Northern Territory has now indicated its firm plans for the development of a land-backed wharf in the Darwin harbour, which is very desirable, but the people believe, with the same degree of urgency, that a small ships facility to service Navy patrol boats et cetera on northern surveillance should be provided with high priority. With this in mind, can the Minister advise what stage has been reached in planning and funding the small ships project and whether a site has been chosen for the base? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. In view of the current concern about progress in Aboriginal advancement, particularly in the field of education in the Northern Territory, can the Minister inform the Senate of recent initiatives in education taken by the Government in the Territory? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The Australian media has drawn considerable attention to the plight of some 1,200 refugees on the ship  Southern Cross  who have been given temporary refuge by the Indonesian Government on an island within Indonesia. In view of the suffering and continuing poor conditions in which these refugees exist, will the Australian Government take firm action to alleviate their distress and give a lead to other nations to assist their resettlement. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. It has been reported in the media that following discussions with the Mayor of Alice Springs,  Mr George  Smith, and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, regulations are to be introduced by the town council regarding various matters, particularly health, which would affect the Aboriginal people living in the town area. As the Aboriginal people would be expected to comply with the regulations in the same way as other citizens of the town, what is the attitude of the Government to these measures? 

 - Mr President, it is a pleasure to welcome you once again as  President  of this Senate. I am sure that the people of South Australia are very proud of you, as I am sure that the people of New South Wales are proud of our new  Chairman  of Committees,  Senator Scott.  In the last two weeks we have heard many speeches on the Budget. I must say that I have found many of those speeches to be very interesting, particularly those from our new senators. I especially congratulate  Senator Puplick,  who is the youngest senator, on the most interesting speech that he made. During the last two weeks there has been much shouting and raving and I believe that much of the shouting and raving has been in an endeavour to confuse the people of Australia. There is no doubt that there is no excuse for it. 
The Budget which has been presented on this occasion is a firm Budget. It is a Budget which is designed to cure a situation which was born and bred when Labor was in office. On many occasions mention has been made of the Labor Government's record, its lack of financial control, its inability to control expenditure, and the fact that it changed Treasurers often in a very brief period. During its period in office we had galloping inflation to the extent that we finished up with an inflation rate of about 1 8 per cent. 
Even if some honourable senators do not remember these things, the people of Australia well remember the intense rate of inflation which we experienced. They remember that period when prices increased by the week and when the workers of this country were endeavouring to keep up with prices. Although they may have received an increase in wages, the taxation system in those days was such that they moved into a higher tax bracket and thus paid more out of their wages in tax and bought fewer goods for their money. Australia was on the brink of economic chaos. It has been said during the last three years that we cannot expect a miracle to happen in a few years. We have now moved away from that period when we had an inflation rate of some 18 per cent, and Australia is now recognised as having an inflation rate of about 7.9 per cent. In the last two weeks it has even been said by an overseas authority that that rate could be overstated and that it is quite likely that the actual inflation rate in Australia is 6.9 per cent. 
An overseas authority who has been mentioned before in this chamber. This reduction in the inflation rate will bring about stability in prices and stability in wages. Out of this stability we will see a decrease in interest rates. Our current high interest rates were bred, of course, out of the high rate of inflation. These high interest rates have caused much havoc and hardship to the ordinary people of Australia who wish to build houses, buy cars or buy something for their homes. Those people have to pay as much as 12 per cent, 13 per cent, 14 per cent, 15 per cent and 16 per cent interest on the money they borrow. 

 - Senator Cavanagh is trying by way of interjection to bring in a red herring. What will happen now is that interest rates will come down and that will be most beneficial to the man in the street. By this lowering of interest rates- I hope that within a year they will be reduced to, say, 8 per cent- the people in the community will be encouraged to buy goods and that in turn will stimulate production. It will have the effect of assisting the worker because the price of houses and the price of goods will be much lower. 
The honourable senator asks: 'What about jobs?' That is a very interesting subject. We have a very high rate of unemployment. No one denies that. It appears that many people in Australia, including those honourable senators sitting opposite tonight, expect that the problem of unemployment will be overcome purely by government action alone. 
We all know that it the unemployment problem is to be overcome that result will be achieved by genuine team work throughout Australia. When I refer to team work I mean that the effort has to be made not only by the Government but also by the Opposition, the unions, the man in the street, the employer and employee. We are faced with a national problem and the way in which it can be overcome is by team work. I often wonder whether honourable senators opposite really want to overcome the unemployment problem. Do they wish to retain their dog-in-the-manger attitude and say: 'To hell with everybody else. I have got a job. I have got money. Forget about the unemployed'. Frankly, I doubt their honesty. 
As I said before, the unemployment problem will be eased by the lowering of interest rates. That will have the effect of stimulating production and stimulating industry. It has been reported in news broadcasts today that a review of some 700 industries indicates that the employment situation is picking up. I believe that if we dealt with the problem as a team we could begin to make inroads into this dreadful unemployment situation. If honourable senators opposite wish to assist I suggest that they do so from within the union system, because I believe that it is most necessary that certain action be taken in that area. I have a few suggestions which, if adopted, would create employment. It is up to these people to look at some of those suggestions if they wish to assist their mates. Firstly, let me deal with penalty rates. Penalty rates, as honourable senators know, have killed many positions and much employment in Australia. The cutting of penalty rates will create more work opportunities, reduce prices and provide more services for the Australian community. 
It is usual for  Senator Harradine  to bring up many interesting points. Tonight he discussed the position of married women in the work force. There is no doubt that there are married women in the work force because they need the money for various reasons, such as to bring up their families and so on. I would say, too, that there are in the work force married women who do not need to be there at all. Some of them work in industry out of sheer boredom. They occupy positions which could be filled by young girls who want work. There has to be a balance in this situation. One of the things that have killed employment and increased unemployment is the rat baggery wild cat strikes that have taken place. We know full well that when a small group of people go on strike it brings hardship on their mates who are stood down. All that these strikes do is increase unemployment. I suggest that the people in the union system who wish to create more employment opportunities should at least consider their mates and not take part in wild cat, rat baggery strikes that give no benefit to them or to their families. 
There are one or two other things that can be done to reduce unemployment. One of the problems we face is youth unemployment. This is a serious situation. I suggest that there should be introduced a means whereby a reasonable amount of wages is given to youth in employment. I do not suggest that the wage for youth should be cut to the bone because that would impose a hardship on them; but I suggest that the level of award wages these days is too high in some respects and it does not give the employer any incentive to employ young people. I think there is a sad situation in respect of youth education. These days we see teachers going on strike. This has occurred in the last few days. Quite frankly, I suggest that the teachers who go out on strike these days- they are only a minority- do so because they forget about their responsibilities. I suggest that in going on strike they do not have due regard for the youth who are under their charge. I think that in many instances there is clear evidence that the youth coming out of our schools these days are poorly equipped- I emphasise the words 'poorly equipped'- to battle in life. 
The education vote has not been cut down. My time in this debate is limited. There has been much said about the Australian scene, but in the few minutes remaining to me in this debate I wish to speak about the Northern Territory. As I have said before, this year is a gigantic and important milestone for the Northern Territory. I refer to the single line appropriation budget in respect of the Northern Territory assuming responsible self-government. Many knockers have said that responsible selfgovernment will bring about hardship for the people of the Northern Territory. This is utter nonsense. I refer to the Press release issued by the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  at about the time of the changeover, in which he said: 
During the transitional period and until the Commonwealth Grants Commission has reported on an application by the Northern Territory for special assistance, the Commonwealth Government will ensure that Commonwealth assistance to the Northern Territory is sufficient to maintain standards of service at an overall level equivalent to that presently provided. 
The amount provided by the Federal Government in this single line is $280m. Despite this, that gloomy person,  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, in Darwin, in September 1978, said: 
The 1978-79 Budget is a tragedy . . . The Northern Territory is more dependent on Government expenditure than any other part of the country. Restrictions in this area of expenditure will create problems in the Northern Territory. 
I do not know whether that is wishful thinking by  Mr Hawke,  but the fact is that he is completely wrong in his forecast. I have in my hands a very interesting document. I would like to read from it extensively, but time does not permit me to do so. It is the second reading speech of the Treasurer of the Northern Territory,  Mr Marshall  Bruce Perron, delivered on the day he introduced Appropriation Bill (No. 1) in the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. I will read just a few quotes from the document. 
That has been covered too. He said: 
. Those who forecast that self-determination would bring disaster will know their charges ring hollow. 
He goes on to say: 
The Budget provides incentives for economic development and confidence for the future. It is a document which expresses the Government's concern to motivate greater private sector growth, and lessen the dependency of the Territory's economy on government sponsored activities. 
This, and succeeding budgets, will reflect that policy. By way of example, the Government recognises the dependency Territorians have on transportation, and this Budget provides in excess of $ 1 8m for new roadworks and $ 1 2. 126m for maintenance works. The construction industry can look to competing for contracts involving almost $22m in Government buildings alone. 
He said that an amount of $8. 4m is to be provided for primary industry. Fishery development will get $1.2m, and the Territory Development Corporation will get $4.2m. The Tourist Board will get $ 1.1m, and $8. 9m is to be provided for the development and control of Territory parks and wildlife. An amount of $4.2m is allocated for mines and energy. He went on to say: 
Even though actual mining will not commence for some time, the development of the support, communication and service facilities in the uranium province will result in a significant injection of capital resources in the Territory. 
As the honourable senator well knows, the Stuart Highway is sealed in the Northern Territory to the South Australian border. The fact of the matter is that an amount of Sim has been made available to the South Australian Government for the commencement of the sealing of the south road, and one wonders whether it will be commenced. This road has quite a long history, as the honourable senator knows, and it would be my wish to go into this matter in much more depth at some time in the very near future. 
When one has only 10 minutes remaining in which to speak one can hardly tell the people of Australia the true facts of the situation. I continue to indicate to the people of Australia the deal that the people of the Northern Territory are getting. Health services will be supported and maintained by the provision of $43m. The provision of essential services to Aboriginal communities is a very important function and responsibility of the Northern Territory Government. By agreement with the Federal Government, $ 13.4m has been set aside for the provision of these services. I think a question was raised tonight about the lack of money in the Northern Territory for housing maintenance, et cetera, but $46.6m has been provided for the construction and restoration of dwelling units by the Housing Commission. The Government will provide $ 17.2m for community development, including $3. 8m on corrective services and $8.7m for local government activities. Fire services will receive $2.9m and $ 13.7m will be provided for police services. Last year $2. 3m and $ 10.4m respectively were provided for those services which come under the control of the Legislative Assembly. Once again I will quote from the Northern Territory Budget. It states: 
Funds provided in this Budget for health and essential services to Aboriginal communities will be carefully monitored in association with the respective Commonwealth Departments, to ensure that between us - 
That is, the Federal Government and the Northern Territory Government- the transfer of responsibility is achieved with the best possible result. This Government is well placed to secure the proper utilisation of these appropriations. If - 
This is quite important- however, inadequacies become apparent, we have the Commonwealth's assurance that it will meet agreed and unavoidable net budget deficiencies through supplementary grants. 
While there are some catcalls from the Opposition side in regard to this matter, this is an agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the Territory as to future financial arrangements. It is a firm arrangement. I must be hurting honourable senators opposite, judging by the noises that they are making. If what I am saying does not hurt them why do they make so much noise? The fact is that the arrangements between the Territory and the Federal Government are such that they will give the Territory a flying start in self-government. But members of the Labor Party did not want selfgovernment. They tried to reject it. They did everything they could do to frustrate it. On the day of the opening of the Parliament, when our  President  was in Darwin, it was dreadful to hear the language, the sneering, the yells and catcalls that came from the mob that was organised by the Australian Labor Party. That is quite correct; it was organised - 
The fact is that the Labor people talked to the people who were waving their red flags and who marched on the Legislative Assembly. They egged them on. 
They did throw eggs. Many members of the guard of honour were hit by eggs. The people of Darwin thought it was disgusting. It was disgusting because it was organised. A lot of the knockers and the radicals from interstate were there in vehicles with interstate numberplates 
The people who acted as if they were in the gutter were the people who that day used vile language against the dignitaries and the ladies who attended the opening of the Parliament. The people of the Northern Territory were disgusted because those other people acted like animals. Now I would like to refer very briefly to Federal responsibilities in the Northern Teritory and various actions that are being taken in that field. First of all, I refer to Federal Government finance for Aboriginal programs in the Northern Territory. Commonwealth Government grants for Aboriginal programs in the Northern Territory will total $36.4m in 1978-79, an increase of $7.6m over last year. The major areas of expenditure are: Housing $ 1.987m, which is up 38 per cent on last year; health $729,000, which is up 75 per cent; education $83,000, which is up 35 per cent; welfare $86,000, which is up 27 per cent; town management $ 1.992m, which is up 11 per cent and which includes mission and essential services which are funded through the Northern Territory Government; and legal aid $101,000, which is up 19 per cent. Amongst the various projects being undertaken for Aboriginal people is one for Aboriginal housing associations involving the expenditure of $7. 177m. There has been an increase of $ 1.927m in this area. This includes $ 1.564m for stage 2 of the Alice Springs town camps housing association. With regard to employment, a special works project is being carried out at Papunya- a project similar to those being carried out at Elcho Island and Bamyili. 
The honourable senator does not know what is going on in the Northern Territory. These particular projects at Bamyili and Elcho Island about which I speak encourage the Aboriginals to work. No unemployment benefit is paid there. Of course, if honourable senators opposite wish to be more accurate they should go to these places and see for themselves. If they do not wish to see for themselves they can read about them. I look forward to works projects of this type being extended in the Northern Territory. The Aboriginal people want money for works projects; they do not want 'sit down' money, as they call it. I look forward to the Government extending its activities in projects like those at Bamyili, Elcho Island and Papunya. I believe that even this year they could be extended. I think that the unemployment benefit should be removed in the Northern Territory. This is the feeling of the Aboriginal people too. 
They would get the living wage from money being provided for construction. For Government and mission sponsored communities, $4.96m will be provided. That amount was previously provided for in the appropriations of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. So it goes on and on. This indicates very clearly that the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory are getting a very fair deal from the Federal Government. Some criticisms have been made by the Opposition regarding education in the Northern Territory. The Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  has stated that recurrent expenditure on government schools in the 
Northern Territory will be increased by $4.7m in 1978-79. Funds for repairs and maintenance will be increased by $ 1.68m, a 104 per cent increase on the previous year's expenditure. Work preparation programs for unemployed youth in the Territory will begin with an allocation of $60,000. It is interesting to note that the Darwin Community College has received an increase of $594,000 over the figure for the previous financial year. In fact the Darwin Community College will get $6. 66m this year. There will also be other major projects carried out in the Northern Territory which will run into many millions of dollars. They include the construction of the new Nhulunbuy high school, a curriculum and media centre, the Darwin Special School, art and craft facilities for Darwin High School, upgrading programs for Milingimbi, Umbakumba, Yuendumu and Ludmilla, and transportable schools for Willowra and Maryvale. The Government's program for providing assistance for mission schools in the Northern Territory is being continued with an allocation of $2. 06m. This clearly indicates that in the area of education - 
Debate interrupted. 
-The Dried Vine Fruits Stabilisation Amendment Bill 1978 and the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Amendment Bill 1978 are money Bills the motion for the first readings of which enables members of the Senate to discuss various matters in which they are interested. Whilst not wishing to detract from the good purposes of the Bills, I wish to take the opportunity to discuss matters relating to communications in the outback. I am prompted to speak today about this matter by the report of a task force on a national communications satellite system which was tabled in the Senate yesterday. By reading that report one can see the tremendous advantage of such a system not only to the people living in the higher density population areas of the eastern seaboard and the southern seaboard but also, particularly, to the people of the outback. As the report states, the Government established a task force towards the end of last year under specific terms of reference to investigate and evaluate the social, economic, technical, policy and other issues associated with the establishment and operation of an Australian national communications satellite system. 
In brief, the task force was required to take into account the use of such a system to provide high quality radio and television broadcasting and other telecommunications services to all Australians; its application in the areas of health, education, science, transport and defence; its use by the private sector for improved communication information and other services; and the implications of a satellite to current radios and television services and the terrestrial communications system. Whilst there has been considerable development in various ways in the outback in the last decade, particularly in the last few years, the area that has suffered and really has not developed to the same degree as other developments is the field of communications. Today I do not wish to speak widely about the areas of communications, which include telephone, radio-telephone and television; I wish to speak about radio. I could talk about the situation with regard to telephone, radio-telephone and television services in the outback and I could tell the Senate and the people of Australia of the disadvantages that are suffered with regard to these forms of communication. 
Of course, the telephone service in the outback badly requires upgrading, as does the radiotelephone system, which is overcrowded. Television services are limited and the people of the Northern Territory have to put up with programs which come from Queensland. With due respect to the people of Queensland, the people of the Territory have other interests that are not catered for. 
I will look now very briefly at what improvements the implementation of such a satellite system could bring to the outback. If implementation of this system were to come about in the period that has been indicated- that is, some six years hence- it would mean a tremendous amount to the people of the outback. I speak not only of the people who live in the cities, the main centres of the Northern Territory, but also of the people who live in small mining settlements, Aboriginal settlements and particularly the people who live in the very isolated pastoral homesteads. Under this scheme the person who lives so far from our civilisation and who is very isolated today, despite our modern means of communications, eventually will have the news communicated to his home as it happens. But that, of course, is looking into the future. Perhaps it will be six years, eight years, ten years or even longer. A vast amount of money has to be found to finance this project. I have not had time to read thoroughly this very comprehensive and long report. Perhaps the report will indicate, as we heard on the media today, that the Department of Finance already is querying the vast amount of money to be spent on a communications satellite that would be of benefit to the people of the north. 
I would say without any fear of contradiction that radio communications in the outback and in the Northern Territory are extremely poor at the moment. In fact they have deteriorated since Christmas Eve of 1975 when Cyclone Tracy virtually wiped out the Radio Australia installation on Cox Peninsula, across the harbour from the city of Darwin. The cyclone brought down the aerials of this significant station which beamed its message from Australia to millions of people in South East Asian areas. Since then progress on restoration work to the station has been slow. The Waller committee has inquired over the last two or three years into the future of stations such as Radio Australia. The committee also looked at the questions of whether the station should be rebuilt and the way in which the Australian Government should act in the future. The Waller committee, after a long period, brought down a report which indicated that certain work should be carried out and that the Radio Australia station on Cox Peninsula in Darwin should be reconstructed over a three-year period and perhaps longer at a cost of some $9m. 
In the meantime millions of listeners who live in South East Asia and who have become very dependent on Radio Australia have found that they can no longer receive a clear, powerful message from Cox Peninsula. After the facility on Cox Peninsula was blown apart by Cyclone Tracy less powerful 'reserve' transmitters were used at Shepparton in Victoria and Carnarvon in Western Australia. The radio programs which are beamed to Indonesia, Malaysia and other countries are so weak that they are drowned out by the much more powerful transmitters in Peking, Moscow and other places. 
It is interesting to read some of the statements that have appeared in the Press in the last couple of weeks in respect of this matter. An article in the Perth  Sunday Times  of 10 September under the heading 'Australia is losing appeal: Radio broadcasts hit by weak soundwaves' states: 
Radio Australia is losing its appeal in a number of overseas countries. 
Radio Australia has been pushing out a comparatively weak shortwave signal since Cyclone Tracy wrecked Radio Australia's most powerful shortwave station at Darwin in 1974. 
This has resulted in millions of regular Radio Australia listeners in Asia, the Pacific, North America, Europe and Africa periodically receiving almost inaudible broadcasts or no programs at all. 
Although the Federal Government earmarked more than $9m for the repair of the Darwin station, it has been slow in releasing the funds. 
The Government has now indicated, of course, that work is to continue over the next three years. The article continued: 
For almost four years Radio Australia has been broadcasting through two standby stations- one in Victoria and the other at Carnarvon in WA. 
Neither of these stations has the output power of which the Darwin station is capable. 
At full strength the Darwin station is able to broadcast Radio Australia through three transmitters, each of 250 kilowatt power. 
The three transmitters, by the way, were not damaged by Cyclone Tracy and are still in good condition on the Cox Peninsula. The article continued: 
The Carnarvon station has only one 250 kilowatt transmitter and another 100 kilowatt transmitter. 
And while Radio Australia is broadcasting below its capability, Moscow, Peking and America are picking up millions of listeners to their broadcasts. 
Radio Moscow has 60 transmitters broadcasting to Asia every day, the Voice of America has 40 and Radio Peking 30. 
But, according to a survey published by the BBC in 1975, Radio Australia was by far the most popular station in Indonesia and many other countries. 
Now its low power output can't compete with other stations, especially in the prime Asian listening time between 6 and 7 a.m. 
An article in the Melbourne  Herald  of 1 September also referred to the BBC survey. It stated: 
A BBC survey in Indonesia published in 1975 showed that Radio Australia was the most popular station. A survey of 1 6 towns in Sumatra and Java revealed a regular audience in just those towns of 1 .5 million people. 
A Voice of America survey in India showed that Radio Australia had almost two million listeners there. 
Another survey in Malaysia revealed 77,000 regular listeners. 
Radio Australia broadcasts almost around the clock in English to Asia, the Pacific, North America, Europe and Africa. 
It also transmits in Cantonese, standard Chinese, Japanese, French, Pidgin, Indonesian, Vietnamese and Thai. 
The pity of all this is that we have a facility in Darwin which could be used but we have lost the audience of our friends in the north and I think this is most unfortunate. I believe that despite the demands of finance and other areas in Australia these days a much higher priority should be given to Radio Australia on the Cox Peninsula. High priority should be given to the reconstruction of the aerials on the Cox Peninsula so that this Radio Australia station can operate again and transmit Australian news and world events as seen through our eyes to the people of South East Asia. I think this is important. 
As I mentioned, Radio Australia transmits a weak signal whereas other countries such as China and Russia transmit much stronger beams. I was told the other day by a person who lives in Arnhem Land that he can receive only transmissions from Peking and Moscow and that he would like to know what is happening in the Northern Territory at the moment. He said that he would not mind hearing a bit of English now and then. I think it is rather a pity that people in the outback can receive only the voice of overseas countries and not programs transmitted from within Australia. 
I turn now to the second matter I wish to talk about today, namely, the proposals to bring shortwave high frequency radio to the people of the outback. Prior to cyclone Tracy it had been planned that two shortwave transmitters would be installed on Cox Peninsula. It was the intention of the authorities in those days to beam signals through the outback for the benefit of the people there, who receive very little news these days because they cannot pick up the broadcast band of the smaller towns in the Northern Territory. It was to be done through what was to be called the Territory inland HF shortwave facility. Of course, when the facilities at Cox Peninsula were blown apart these transmitters were installed at Carnarvon and Shepparton. So despite the plan to bring about a good reliable shortwave band for broadcasts to the outback this has not occurred. So the situation now, as I understand it and as I have been advised by the Australian Telecommunications Commission, is that the people of the outback will not receive any upgrading in radio facilities until the Cox Peninsula aerials are rebuilt and other transmitters are installed so that shortwave radio signals can be beamed through the outback. The Australian Broadcasting Commission facilities at Cox Peninsula are provided by the Telecommunications Commission. Of course, the ABC is the agency which would operate the new shortwave service. 
The Northern Territory is a vast place. It is more than half a millions square miles in area. I will now outline the broadcasting system in the Northern Territory. In Darwin radio station 8DR broadcasts at 2 kilowatts. Its effective range within the primary service area is approximately 60 to 80 miles. A person travelling down the track has to travel another 200 miles south before he gets the slightest sound out of his wireless. He will then pick up 8KN in Katherine, which broadcasts at 50 watts and covers no more than the minimum town area, say 12 miles. I am not speaking about Arnhem Land or the Barkly Tableland. I am speaking only of reception along the Stuart Highway, which is the main artery of the Territory. Further south at Tennant Creek 8TC broadcasts at 1 kilowatt. It covers the towns and the mines within a radius of something like 40 miles. If a person travels further south he will lose reception once again until he comes to Alice Springs, 330 miles away, when he will hear the sounds of 8AL. At present it broadcasts at a frequency of 200 watts and shortly it will go up to 2 kilowatts. When this upgrading takes place I understand that this radio station will have a range of something like 70 miles. Until its range is improved the quality of reception, particularly in summer months, will be very poor. 
If a person wants to wander off the track he can go to Nhulunbuy, where he can listen to station 8GO Gove. It has a 500 watt transmitter which covers only the town and the Yirrkala Aboriginal settlement. As far as I know, Groote Eylandt receives perhaps only the weakest of signals. It is my estimation that one-quarter or possibly slightly less of the Northern Territory's population receives absolutely no news or wireless reception from the Northern Territory stations. Included in this category are people on mining fields, Aboriginal settlements, station homesteads and so on. It is a rather incredible situation, but I do not think that it is irrecoverable. 
I have suggested that the Australian Government should give a high priority to the reconstruction of the aerials at Cox Peninsula for Radio Australia so that once again we can contact our friends in South East Asia by means of a stronger radio transmission. I suggest that the whole matter of radio transmitting in the Northern Territory should be reconsidered. After all, transmitters to provide a shortwave service to the Territory really have nothing in common with Radio Australia. I understand that signals from these transmitters hit the ground and jump up again ad infinitum, causing interference in other areas. If these transmitters are placed at Cox Peninsula they may be subjected to cyclones and strong winds and may be damaged. One has to admit that it will be some years before those transmitters are put in, but if they are put at Cox Peninsula there will be considerable interference in the area. All in all, it could well be that the proposal to put high frequency inland transmitters at Cox Peninsula for the benefit of outback people will have some drawbacks. Perhaps a better proposal to upgrade radio reception and transmitters in the Territory in the very near future would be to consider Katherine and Alice Springs as two locations for shortwave stations which would not only cover the whole of the Northern Territory but also assist in giving good radio reception to the Kimberleys and areas of Queensland. As far as I know, and I am no expert on radio - 
I have been told that I am. I am told very many things. I believe some of them; I do not believe others. In this case I believe that a shortwave signal beamed directly into the ionosphere will have an umbrella effect and provide over a good radius reception free from the skipping effect and interference from other stations interstate. By some little upgrading of the ABC's existing facilities at 8KN in Katherine and 9AL in Alice Springs the people in the Northern Territory could be given good and reliable shortwave reception very quickly. I do not know whether the authorities have considered this matter but I believe that it has been put to them. Of course, there are people in authority who are for and against proposals. Arguments are advanced as to why things should be done and why they should not be done. But it seems to me that the advice and suggestions that have been put forward from the system in the Northern Territory can be meaningful and, as I said before, bring good reception and up-to-date news to the people of the Territory. 
This is a most urgent and important matter for the people of the outback. I do not think that they can wait for the introduction of a national communications satellite system. This may take some six to 10 years to introduce. Nor do I believe that the people of the inland can wait until the facilities of" Radio Australia at Cox Peninsula are rebuilt. I ask the Government to take note of the request and the advice that has come from the radio technicians in the Northern Territorythat shortwave facilities be installed at Katherine, Tennant Creek and Alice Springs to bring reliable radio transmissions to the people. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 August 1 978: 
1 ) How many Aboriginals are being paid unemployment benefit in the Northern Territory, and what is the total annual amount. 
How many Aboriginals living on missions and settlements receive unemployment benefits. 
How many Aboriginals live on each settlement or mission, and what is the name of the settlement or mission. 
I present the following petition from 4,387 citizens of Australia: 
The  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the Undersigned Citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we are gravely concerned over the extreme weakness shown by our Prime Minister and his Government in his handling of the uranium mining situation in the Northern Territory. 
While the Parliament allows a small group of antigovernment advisers to Aboriginal organisations to delay the commencement of mining the great majority of Citizens and business people are being caused financial loss, and being denied the right to participate in a legitimate business. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that permission be given- and not again withdrawn- for mining to commence immediately. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It has been reported that the Bureau of Transport Economics, following a survey of some 30 international airlines, believes that the two Australian national airlines- Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlinesshould be listed 27th and 28th respectively in order of efficiency and other cost factors. A similar report from Hocking and Forsyth indicates that because of the two-airline agreement there is little encouragement to bring about improved managerial and technical efficiency. In view of the rapid increase in Australia's air fares and their effect on so many people of the outback and its industries, is consideration being given to a review of the two-airline agreement to bring about a paring of costs to ease the burden on the now somewhat reluctant user? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 June 1 978: 
1 ) When is it expected that the micro-wave link being constructed between Tennant Creek and Alice Springs, Northern Territory, will be completed and subscriber trunk dialling and television programs from interstate be available for the people in this area. 
Is equipment now being installed in the Alice Springs studio which will not match the high quality equipment currently in use, and which will give an inferior picture and sound. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice, on 23 August 1 978: 
1 ) How many Aboriginals are being paid family allowances in the Northern Territory, and what is the total annual amount 
How many Aboriginals living on missions and settlements receive family allowances. 
How many Aboriginals live on each settlement or mission, and what is the name of the settlement or mission. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
) What amount is paid as a living allowance to Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory. 
How many receive the allowance, and what are their places of residence. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) Have many Aboriginal co-operative supermarkets in the Northern Territory suffered substantial financial losses in the last few years. 
2 ) Do these losses warrant investigation. 
Is the management of the supermarkets, although supposedly in the hands of Aboriginal management, often namely in the hands of the staff. 
What action is being taken, or has been taken, to prevent any abuse of such co-operatives and to prevent future losses. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
Does the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service operate under a charter or terms of reference; if not, what is the Government's attitude towards the scope and extent of the activities of the Service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1978: 
Are Australian Nomad aircraft operating in the outback experiencing engine problems, necessitating the changing of engines; if so: 
how many engines have failed; 
b) what is the nature of the problem; 
what is the approximate cost of replacing the engines; 
has the problem occurred in other areas where Nomad aircraft are operating; 
is the fault being experienced elsewhere; and 
what action is being taken to rectify the problem. 
-1 present the following petition from 25 1 citizens of Australia: 
The  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. 
The Petition of the Undersigned Citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that we are gravely concerned over the extreme weakness shown by our Prime Minister and his Government in his handling of the uranium mining situation in the Northern Territory. 
While the Parliament allows a small group of antigovernment advisers to Aboriginal organisations to delay the commencement of mining the great majority of citizens and business people are being caused financial loss, and being denied the right to participate in a legitimate business. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that permission be given- and not again withdrawn- for mining to commence immediately. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Members of the tourist industry at Ayers Rock are strongly voicing their concern in regard to the loss of time and what they see as procrastination by authorities in bringing about final plans for the proposed new village some several kilometres from the Rock and in regard to the fact that, in the present area of accommodation and houses and in the camping area, servicing facilities are still found to be wanting. Can the Minister advise: What is the present position in regard to the plans for the proposed new village; what government- that is, Federal or Territoryand which department are to have the ultimate responsibility for the administration of the area; and is the upgrading of facilities which was commenced during the past year to be completed and are other most urgently required services to be commenced in the areas of water reticulation, sewerage, rubbish disposal, electricity reticulation, et cetera, to give much needed relief to the tourist industry at Ayers Rock? 
I present the following petition from 292 citizens of Australia: 
The  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. The Petition of the Undersigned Citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that we are gravely concerned over the extreme weakness shown by our Prime Minister and his Government in his handling of the uranium mining situation in the Northern Territory. 
While The Parliament allows a small group of antigovernment advisers to Aboriginal organisations to delay the commencement of mining the great majority of Citizens and business people are being caused financial loss, and being denied the right to participate in a legitimate business. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that permission be given- and not again withdrawn- for mining to commence immediately. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister: In the light of the media report today that members of the NLC at Oenpelli have decided not to sign the Ranger agreement, not on the grounds as stated before of not wishing to disturb Aboriginal ground or of possible dangers in mining but that more money is demanded, will the Government take note of the petitions I have lodged this week in the Senate signed by over 5,000 people mainly from the Darwin area which call for the Government to take a realistic attitude to the mining of uranium and the development of the North? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Having in mind the declining interest rates now being offered to the Australian investor by various Australian authorities seeking finance and also the fact that some banks appear not to favour the reduction of interest rates on borrowings, what is the attitude of the Government to the situation and what action is contemplated? 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
What cyclone surveillance equipment has been installed, or is planned for the future, to give early warning of any future cyclones in the northern areas, particularly Darwin. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. In view of the fact that the Northern Land Council tapes of the Aboriginal Red Lilly meeting relating to the uranium agreement were used by  Mr Bob  Collins, MLA, on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  AM  to discredit the results of the meeting of Aboriginals which was to honour the agreement by the NLC negotiators and the Federal Government, will the Government request that the tapes taken by the two Australian Labor Party solicitors, James and Waters, advisers to the dissident faction at a later meeting at Oenpelli last week, be released for public scrutiny? The tapes are referred to by the people of the Northern Territory as the Oenpelli tapes. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that Australian National Railways has decided that the rail terminal for the new standard gauge line is to remain at the present site of the narrow gauge terminal at Alice Springs, with minor variations? If so, what are the proposals in regard to the railhead? Is not the decision taken by ANR contrary to the course proposed by the Government, which was that there would be adequate consultation with the people and the Government of the Northern Territory? In planning the proposed railhead, has consideration been given to the possibility of extending the new line north of Alice Springs to Darwin? 
I  present the following petition from 1,591 citizens of Australia: 
The  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the Undersigned Citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that we are gravely concerned over the extreme weakness shown by our Prime Minister and his Government in his handling of the uranium mining situation in the Northern Territory. 
While The Parliament allows a small group of antigovernment advisers to Aboriginal organisations to delay the commencement of mining the great majority of Citizens and business people are being caused financial loss, and being denied the right to participate in a legitimate business. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that permission be given- and not again withdrawn- for mining to commence immediately. 
Petition received and read. 
ACT Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. Following discussions between the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Northern Land Council and the traditional land owners at Bamyili and Oenpelli in the Northern Territory last week, documents have been signed which give the green light for the mining of uranium. However,  Mr Tom  Uren, M.P., shadow minister for urban and regional affairs, has indicated that the Australian Labor Party will not honour uranium contracts made by the Australian Government and overseas clients. If this is so, does the Minister believe that it may impede the arrangement of future contracts? Does the Government consider the Uren statement as a threat to the economy and possibly the future security of Australia? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the statement made by  Mr Uren,  the Labor shadow minister for urban and regional affairs suggesting that the Labor Party would terminate uranium agreements with overseas clients if it became the Government. Would such action, firstly, remove the opportunity for Aboriginal employment in the mining operations and associated industries; secondly, cancel the very considerable financial benefits agreed to be paid on establishment of the mining of uranium; and thirdly, cancel out the royalty payments to which the Aboriginal people would become entitled and thus prevent them from assisting all other Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory to improve their living standards and way of life? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 26 September 1 978: 
1 ) Are Commonwealth postgraduate research awards considered to be research grants; if so, will these awards be taxable. 
Will the Government increase its financial contribution to postgraduate research awards if they are to be taxable, in view of their depreciation in value over the last five years. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. It is a follow-on question to that asked by  Senator McLaren  concerning the number of Aboriginal people employed in the main mining towns in the Northern Territory. Will the Minister inform the Senate of the policy of the major mining companies in the Northern Territory, as well as that of government, with regard to Aboriginal employment? Is it a fact that where negotiations are concluded by government and /or private enterprise with Aboriginal organisations, firm commitments are made to employ, directly or indirectly, Aboriginal people who offer their services? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. Despite the fact that it is the Government's wish to hand over the Northern Territory branch of the Department of Education in good condition to the Northern Territory Government on 1 July 1979, is it not a fact that the Public Service Board has rejected submissions for increases in staff in regional areas? I cite as an example the position of senior education adviser for Tennant Creek and new positions to enable the training of Aboriginal youth as teachers and teacher's aids, to be placed in isolated areas and outstations where conditions for the placement of white staff is difficult. It is also correct that the Public Service Board has decided not to create these positions because the transfer of the responsibilities of the Department of Education to the Northern Territory Government will take place shortly and it has been decided to put the Northern Territory in a holding situation regardless of what this lack of action may create? Is it also a fact that while the Federal Government calls on the States to give Aboriginal people more employment, it too has responsibilities within the area of its authority? 
Estimates Committee C took a long time to examine the estimates of the Department of 
Social Security. I believe that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the officers of the Department co-operated extremely well with the Committee and gave all the information that was sought. I wish to make only one comment. To me, the problems of administering social service benefits through a vast number of departments these days were indicated clearly. We should take due note in this respect of the advice that the Minister and the head of the Department gave. They indicated that, for them to fulfil their responsibilities to the extent that is desirable in relation to the enormous social service funding these days, the Public Service Board should take note of the request that certain positions should be created and that those positions should be filled to allow the Department to become efficient to the degree that the taxpayers and the Government seek. 
Further, I believe that, when looking at the staff ceilings imposed on the Department, there is room for an extension. I should like to refer particularly to the area of Aboriginal welfare and to the problems being experienced by the Aborigines in gaining suitable employment. I believe that there is room for more liaison officers of that Department to work with the Aboriginal people. 
I wish to make some few remarks regarding expenditure on Aboriginal affairs. I say few because once again the discussion of the estimates of the Department took several hours before Estimates Committee C, and those who are interested will find a great deal of information relating to the proposed expenditure in the pages of the  Hansard  record. One sees that for this year, in Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and (No. 2), an expenditure of approximately $ 130.5m is contemplated. It is not my intention to go through the ramifications of the activities of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs except to comment on matters that are of particular interest to me. 
I would first like to bring to the notice of the Committee the proposed expenditure on housing, which is dealt with in division 813, subdivision 1, item 01. In 1977-78 there was an expenditure of $10.13m. For 1978-79 the proposed expenditure is to be $ 1 1 . 1 3 1 m. This indicates that in the coming year a very real attempt will be made to increase the housing for Aboriginal people in all States. In the Northern Territory in particular it is pleasing to see that the Aboriginal housing situation is once again on the move forward. A little while ago it encountered real troubles. There was a lot of financial outlay but very few results. There was a tremendous amount of wastage. A tremendous amount of money was being skimmed off by consultants and so on but I believe that, with the reorganisation of Aboriginal housing projects, we will see the money being spent to real purpose. The Aboriginal people will find real benefits rather than having an amount of money allocated which was really of no advantage to them. 
I note that in regard to the employment program, in which I am very interested, a considerable change is taking place. Previously there had been the unfortunate situation with unemployment benefits or what the Aboriginal people call 'sit down money'. The Government, as they used to say, took the money away from them on the one hand through work projects and, on the other, gave them money to sit down. Naturally, they called it 'sit down money' and took it as meaning that the Government did not wish them to work. That was extremely bad, as it would be for anybody. I am not singling out Aboriginal people in regard to that particular feeling. However, various improved schemes are now being developed. I am more familiar with employment schemes in the Territory than with those outside it. I have looked at Bamyili, which is south of Katherine. That scheme will employ Aboriginal people. A block grant is being made to the community. Aboriginal people are organising this scheme themselves. Very few Europeans will be employed. I believe that at Bamyili two or three Europeans will be employed. That scheme has given a new feeling and a new initiative to the Aboriginal people. It is a tremendous place to see, and one that would give anybody heart as people see what can be done for the future. I know that some people are a little wary of the development of that type of scheme, inasmuch as it involves money going into Aboriginal towns or settlements. The suggestion is that really nothing creative comes out of it. The fact is, of course, that it is money that is going into these settlements, which, after all, are towns and the Aboriginal people are looking after it under a councildirected operation, and doing extremely well. We have to be prepared to wait until certain things happen within the Aboriginal people. We have to wait until they find their feet and become accustomed to our way of life, and become more independent. At this time it is very good that the Government is encouraging these types of schemes. They are giving the Aboriginal people more heart, more encouragement, much more self-reliance and the confidence that they can do things without having to lean on the Europeans. Therefore, I would congratulate the Government on developing this scheme. 
Of course, the Government's program goes beyond that type of scheme as well. I appreciate that there is some wariness in the development of the scheme. This year we will see such schemes developing not only in Bamyili and Galiwinku, which is on Elcho Island off the Arnhem Land coast, but also in a place called Papunya which is a very big problem area. It has been described as a disaster area for, and of, Aboriginal people. It is going to be a real test as a scheme developes there. Still, I have my hopes and I believe that it can be done successfully. Of course, the Government's program goes even further. In the development of self-initiative in Aboriginal people there is the block funding of Aboriginal councils. Once again we are seeing people being encouraged to take up town-like or local government responsibilities and carry them out. 
I am speaking very briefly on this matter and it could appear that I am glamorising the situation; far from it. All I am saying is that the initiative that is taking place is proving worth while, but there are many problems ahead. I would hope that with some sympathetic treatment such problems would be overcome. 
I wish to speak briefly now on the matter of Aboriginal health on which I spoke during Estimates Committee C hearings. On that Committee I had a bit of a brush with an honourable senator opposite, but perhaps it was more of a misunderstanding rather than our being at odds over the situation. 
I do not hold it against the honourable senator, although he did call me a 'bloody Jeremiah', if I remember correctly. However, that was in the heat of the moment. At any rate I do believe that what we were endeavouring to do and what we were saying was on the same track. 
As I have indicated before, I am concerned about the general health of the Aboriginal people and I think that anybody associated in any way with the Aboriginal people would feel the same way. The Aboriginal people are going through a very difficult time. As I said before, with the vast amounts of money spent on the Aboriginal people it was to be hoped that better results than one sees at present would have been brought about. I refer, for example, to a newspaper article of a few days ago which bears the heading: 'Aboriginal baby death rate rise'. The article states in part: 
The Federal Health Department is concerned at an increase in the Northern Territory Aboriginal infant mortality rate last year.  the rate rose from S2.8 per 1,000 live births in 1976 to 74.6 in 1977. 
The rise was further confirmation of the urgent need to improve conditions, the depanment said. 
So the article goes on. Generally speaking, since I was a child living in the Northern Territory, the Aboriginal infant mortality rate, which was then in the hundreds per thousand, has dropped. The fact is that this is a very difficult situation. One wonders whether at the moment the problem is too diversified. Perhaps too many authorities are involved in this issue. It does give me concern that- once again I speak of the Northern Territory, although no doubt this would apply also to Queensland and Western Australia and places like that- we have overlapping authorities within government. There are the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the Department of Education and the Department of Health, so there is a considerable overlapping of authority by those departments. I wonder whether the services that are provided and the money that is spent are for the good of the people. 
On quite a few occasions during the Estimates Committee C proceedings the matter of evaluation was brought up. I wonder whether, considering all this money that is being spent, it is ultimately for the good of the people. I wonder whether the best is being done for the people when we have overlapping authorities and a duplication of services. I note from information that has been provided to the Committee that an evaluation is to be carried out. In fact it has been commenced and I understand it will continue for the next two or three years. I support this move because, as I have said before, I am not a knocker- in fact far from it, I am a supporter- of any good that can come out of a system that will help these people. I do have grave doubts about the overlapping of responsibilities and such. 
I wish to make one or two final points. I come once again to the review of Aboriginal legal aid as set out in the Department's estimates. It has been indicated to us by departmental people and by way of an answer by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  that a charter is to be formulated setting out the guidelines for the operation of Aboriginal legal aid. I think this is most necessary. I am not singling out Aboriginal legal aid as an area that should be receiving the most attention. All I am saying is that anybody who is funded by taxpayers money should have a charter and should have guidelines. I suggest now that there are insufficient guidelines for Aboriginal legal aid. There are some other matters that concern me, but I do not raise them now. So if there is to be some rhyme or reason to Aboriginal legal aid and if Aboriginal legal aid is to give service to the Aboriginal people, I look to the Government and I look to the Minister to bring forward these guidelines and this charter as quickly as possible. 
I recognise the genuine concern of  Senator Georges  in this matter but I doubt that money can really buy the health of the Aboriginal child. More is required than the pouring in of money. This is related to some of the criticisms I have made before. The problem is the understanding by the Aboriginal people of matters of health. Their way of life has come a long way since they lived in their tribal state. Although they do not live in a completely tribal state now, they still retain that way of life to a degree. In the tribal state, they lived in small groups. They lived on the banks of rivers, in the river beds and so on. They were nomadic. Because of their small numbers, the ground on which they lived did not become fouled, tainted or whatever description one might like to use. The fact is that a change has occurred in their way of life. Our desire has been to give Aboriginal people welfare. We have brought them into settlements where they can live permanently. However, they still endeavour to lead their old way of life to some degree. For too long they camped on the ground in the settlements. This results in problems with disease. To quite a extent Aboriginal people do not understand vitamins, the use of vitamin C or of orange juice, and similar related matters. These are very real problems. As I have said before, I do not think that money provides the real solution to these problems. 
One action that can be taken to help- and this is a point that I pursued with respect to education- is for more and more Aboriginal children to be trained as teachers aides and teachers to work among their own people. There are many hundreds of Aboriginal children in the Northern Territory being educated at the Kormilda and Yirara Aboriginal Colleges who have the ability to become health aides. Some advantage may be gained by placing among the older Aboriginal people the many young Aboriginal people, at present undergoing training, who know our way of life. This is not the complete answer; it is but one of the answers to the many problems that exist. 
Estimates Committee C was responsible for looking at the estimates for the Department of Health which are covered in Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and (No. 2) and which amount to over $2,000m which is a very large budget for 1978-79. Of course, the Department's responsibilities throughout Australia are vast and varied. One notes that on 1 January part of its responsibilities will disappear. That is when it will hand over the health services under its administration in the Northern Territory to the Northern Territory Government. Covered in these Estimates are the sums of money that will fund the Department of Health up to 31 December. Thereafter the funds will be made available to the Northern Territory Government. Overall, I commend the departmental heads who came before this Committee as it sat long and into the late hours. They gave full information to the members of the Committee. I believe that their contribution was a very good one. 
There are one or two points that I would like to make. Speaking once again of the outback health situation I see that there will be room in this transfer of powers for the re-evaluation of health services to ensure that there is no overlapping and that the money will go further than perhaps it does now. That is a criticism which perhaps may not add up. But certainly it is time for an evaluation. Once again I see a necessity for reviewing health facilities to ensure that there is no overlapping of responsibilities and a resultant wasting of funds and personnel. Also, I see the matter of the Northern Territory aerial service, the Flying Doctor Service, the service for Aboriginal people and so on, once again coming into this evaluation to ensure that there is utmost efficiency. 
An unusual aspect of the Health Department estimates this year which is creating interest not only to honourable senators in this chamber but also to the people of Australia is that the Health Department Will be responsible for northern surveillance. This year $2.6m will be made available. I understand that tenders have been called. Applicants have submitted tenders. We are now waiting to see who will the the first people in light aircraft responsible for northern surveillance. Northern surveillance is merely one cog in a large engine of surveillance and defence. I congratulate the Government on bringing about the commencement of surveillance. I hope that in the very near future it will be in a position to indicate who are the successful tenderers. I hope they will be experienced pilots of the north who now fly day by day along the northern coast. I see a case here too for the participation of Aboriginal people, particularly as observers. 
I make another point which concerns particularly the ladies of the outback. I refer to the scheme to assist isolated patients with travelling and accommodation expenses. The allocation for 1 978-79 is $5.2m which, I think, is a good sum of money to assist people who live far in the outback, some 200 kilometres from the nearest suitable specialist treatment et cetera. This scheme will be a great help to the people who live in very isolated areas. Because of their circumstances they have very little financial backing to enable them to go to hospital. 
One item concerning people in isolated areas does not seem to have been covered. I wonder whether the Health Department has considered the woman who is expecting a child. It is my understanding that this situation has not been covered within the scheme. I ask the Government to consider it. Many young girls in the outback who are having their first child are very far from medical attention. They need to go to a central point. I suggest that the funding be extended to cover these persons who need medical treatment, guidance and accommodation in centres along the track, in Darwin, Katherine, Tennant Creek, Alice Springs and other places. I ask the Government to consider this aspect. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. In view of reports that the closure of Dhupuma College on the Gove Peninsula has been under consideration for the past few months, has the Minister any information that would allay the concern of the Aboriginal people in the vicinity of Nhulunbuy and Yirrkala? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
What were the reasons for the decision to remove the Institute of Cultural Affairs at Oombulgurri on the North West Coast of Western Australia, from a management role in the local community development project, and the subsequent reinstatement of the Institute in its former role there. 
Since the last debate on the estimates for the Department of the Northern Territory, dramatic changes have taken place. For many years appropriations for the Northern Territory came under the Department of the Northern Territory, the former Department of the Interior and other Federal Government departments. Arrangements for self-government in the Northern Territory have taken a long time to implement. As everyone knows, the Northern Territory has now taken over most of the State-type responsibilities but not quite all of them. On 1 January next year, responsibility in the field of health will be transferred to the Northern Territory and on 1 July 1979 education responsibilities will be transferred. 
There has indeed been a dramatic change. In this year's Federal Budget a very small amount of money is allocated for the Department of the Northern Territory. Of course the bulk of the money for the administration of the Northern Territory is provided elsewhere. Some weeks ago I indicated where this money was to be allocated in areas that were once the responsibility of the Federal Government. Honourable senators also realise that particularly over the last year there have been negotiations between the Federal Government and the Northern Territory Government on the important financial arrangements between the Territory and the Commonwealth. A financial arrangement has been contracted between the administrations. Copies are now readily available. A special clause in the arrangement provided that where the Northern Territory experiences special hardship and unusual circumstances because of its remote and isolated location and its small population- I hope the population will increase in the next few years- the Northern Territory will be able to apply to the Federal Government for funds to overcome its disability. In the last few weeks or two months for the first rime the Northern Territory has become eligible to obtain grants from the Grants Commission. The  Chairman  of the Grants Commission has visited the Northern Territory to assess for the first time the requirements of the Territory which ultimately will be discussed in the negotiations next financial year between the Grants Commission and the Northern Territory. The Northern Territory will be able to apply as do the States, to the Grants Commission so that it may derive funds. 
Naturally quite a few people have been concerned about the movement of the Territory to self-government. For the first time since Federation a new State is emerging. That is what the Northern Territory is; it is still a Territory but it is an emerging State. The population of the Northern Territory is just over 100,000 people now. I think most people would agree that the changeover in government has gone relatively smoothly. I have had some connection with moves in this direction over the years and have been surprised to see how smoothly control has passed from one government to the other. I think that this is indicative of the work being done in the Territory now with officers of the Commonwealth Public Service transferring to the Northern Territory Public Service. Although there were some qualms in this respect by and large now those officers who were in the Federal Public Service feel very much at home in the Northern Territory Public Service. They now feel that they have a greater sense of freedom and achievement because they are directly on the spot participating in decisions for the development of the Northern Territory. We can see from the various projects being undertaken in the Northern Territory now with the local people in the Territory having a say in their own affairs that there is a tremendous impetus, something that the Territory has not experienced before. 
I have no comment in regard to any particular item in the estimates for the Department of the Northern Territory, but I think it is worth devoting these few minutes briefly to indicate the changing scene which not only will enable the people of the Northern Territory to have a say in their own affairs but also will result in development. I think it would be well worth while for people in the south and on the eastern seaboard to keep their eyes on the Northern Territory because their future is tied up with the development of the north. The development in the Northern Territory in the next few years will be vast. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Construction- proposed expenditure $ 1 55,979,000-agreed to. 
Buildings and Works (Defence)- proposed expenditure $67,400,000-agreed to. 
Repairs and Maintenance (Defence)proposed expenditure $52,000,000- agreed to. 
Department of Home Affairs- proposed expenditure $7 1 , 426,000- agreed to. 
Department of the Capital Territoryproposed expenditure $80,303,000- agreed to. 
Department of Administrative Services 
Proposed expenditure, $278,738,000. 
The connection of South Australia to the Northern Territory by means of a sealed road has been a matter- and quite a controversial matter- of concern for many years. In fact, moves towards this end have been going on for many years. We in the Territory have been aware that it was most necessary that we have good sealed roads connecting us to the States of Australia. For very many years there were only dirt roads and mud tracks into Western Australia, Queensland and South Australia. There has been some development in this direction with the construction of the bitumen road into Queensland. The fact that Queensland has seen fit to extend its road construction to the Northern Territory border has been a tremendous gain to that State. It is my understanding that since this sealed road was constructed in Queensland from Mount Isa over the Barkly Tablelands to connect with the Stuart Highway an immense amount of traffic has been generated with goods transported into the Territory for the development of the North. In the Territory there were very many moves for the sealing of roads. The result is that now the sealed roads system in the Northern Territory extends to its borders with Queensland and South Australia. The sealed roads system is to be extended to the Western Australian border. However, when one comes to the Northern Territory/South Australian border one really wonders what one has struck. I do not know whether it was in a report on  Always on Sunday  or in a report from some other source but it was reported the other day that a person was travelling along the Stuart Highway and found some kangaroos resting in the shade of the corrugations. 
Speaking seriously, I point out that the condition of this highway is dreadful. Not only is it dreadful but also it is causing tremendous damage to vehicles. Accidents occur frequently and, on occasions, there are fatalities on this highway. What concerns the people of the North is the increasing number of school coaches and tourist coaches that come to grief on it; and it is supposed to be a road that is assisting in the development of the North. I have participated in delgations to Federal Ministers and have been involved with the National Roads Association and other bodies. Over the years the need for this road to be sealed has been recognised. In fact, I think it was only last year that the Federal Minister for Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon, invited some people, including me, to sit in on a meeting with a delegation of mayors and other people from Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland who were pushing the case for a road through the Centre along the eastern side of the Channel country, crossing the Channel country to Mount Isa and ultimately going through the Territory. The Minister gave a clear indication that the Federal Government's policy was that the first road to be sealed and made a national highway would be the road from Port Augusta, through Coober Pedy to the Northern Territory border and that any other suggestions, such as for the road through the Channel country, would have to take lower priority. So, at least we have a recognition that the road must be sealed. 
Over the years there has been continued agitation in the Northern Territory for development. In fact, the Mayor of Alice Springs,  Mr George  Smith, who is something of a live wire, has been looking at the various ways in which the sealing of the highway can be funded. One way was by means of a toll. The latest development, I understand, is that he has approached the Japanese, no doubt thinking that, if the Japanese can go into Queensland with many millions of dollars to build tourist resorts, perhaps they may be interested in coming to the Northern Territory. However, the ramifications of that thought, I do not know. Recently, following controversy concerning the sealing of the highway, I received a letter from  Mr Peter  Nixon dated 1 1 October 1978 in which he said: 
I refer to your recent letter enquiring the current situation concerning the upgrading of the Swan Highway in South Australia. 
When South Australia did not include any construction work for the Stuart Highway in last year's National Highways program, I wrote to the State Transport Minister,  Mr Virgo,  expressing my deep concern and urging him to ensure that a substantial start was made on reconstruction of the highway in this year's program. 
The 1978-79 National Highways program submitted to me by  Mr Virgo  on 3 1 May 1978 included a project for commencement of sealing the SO km gravel section of the Stuart Highway between Bookaloo and Mt Gunson, north of Port Augusta.  Mr Virgo  however proposed to spend only $270,000 on this section during the year plus $60,000 on other preliminary construction works north of Woomera. I approved South Australia's program on 13 July, but in so doing, I indicated to  Mr Virgo  my dissatisfaction with this low level of expenditure and urged him to increase this amount to $1 million on construction works and so ensure a substantial start on the project this year. 
To provide for this additional expenditure for work on the Stuart Highway, which I regard as of top Commonwealth priority, I have suggested to  Mr Virgo  that I am prepared to approve a transfer of $350,000 from South Australia's 1978-79 National Commerce Roads allocation to National Highways Construction. This is possible as I have deferred approval of a proposal from  Mr Virgo  for declaration as a National Commerce Road of a road of much lesser importance than the Stuart Highway and one which could easily be funded from the State's own resources. 
I believe therefore that there is no reason why an immediate start cannot be made on redevelopment of the Stuart Highway.  Mr Virgo's  early submission indicated an immediate availability of $330,000 for commencement of construction works. I have suggested to him the means whereby he can obtain a further $350,000 of Commonwealth funds, and in his letter of 10 August he has agreed to spend $900,000. 
That is correct because, according to an answer from  Mr Virgo  to a question asked in the South Australian Parliament, he has indicated that $900,000 will be spent. However, it all comes back to a question of finance. 
One realises that, with its other responsibilities and in view of the work that it has taken upon itself in the way of the various highways and freeways that it has built, the South Australian Government is hard pressed to find any substantial amount of money for the sealing of the Stuart Highway. It has the responsibility for work on the south eastern highway- the highway from Adelaide to Melbourne- which is costing an immense amount of money. Of course, the other matter of concern when looking at the proposal put forward by  Mr Virgo  and understanding the South Australian situation is the national commerce road classification. My understanding is that the aim is to seal the road from Leigh Creek towards the Moomba oil and gas field. This road comes under the national commerce road classification. It is also my understanding that $550,000 is being approved for transfer from that project to national highways work. 
We all realise that with the cost of roads these days, the amounts of money I have been talking about are peanuts compared with the ultimate cost. There are demands throughout Australia for national highways. No matter where one travels in Australia, one finds that with the development of our country, improved transport and so on, there is a demand ibr bigger and better roads. I agree that Australia has a tremendous problem ahead of it. Yet I still come back to the importance of constructing a road from the south to the north. One has to look to the development and defence of the north. We should not get into the frame of mind that people had in the 1930s when they thought that the north was a place in the outback which they did not have to trouble very much about because it was outside their sphere of living. The north is far too important to the people of the south, whether in terms of defence or the development of the gigantic mineral resources of that region. Through pure force of economics- I have no doubt that development will take place in the Northern Territory, particularly in the mining sphere- there will be a demand for better roads into the area, particularly from the south. 
One hears about the development of uranium in the north. That will take place but uranium is by no means the only mineral that exists in the Northern Territory. Even now there are probably large resources of minerals which are hardly known. I believe that there are minerals in the Territory, the knowledge of which has not been made public. The development of these minerals will create more demand for roads. As I have indicated, and as  Senator Robertson  has also indicated, because of the defence needs of the north and the unreliability of shipping there must be a backstop- if the road from the south is to be a backdrop- as a means of transferring goods and troops, if necessary, to the north in the shortest time possible. 
There is only one way by which the Stuart Highway can be constructed; that is through the provision of Federal funds. The responsibility for construction of the road then passes to the appropriate State. There has to be general agreement and understanding between the Federal Government and the South Australian Government. Both governments have to provide funds wherever they can. I support  Senator Jessop  's remarks following the motion moved by  Senator Bishop.  If the motion is to be worth while it should not be directed at one road. It should have a wider scope, as suggested by  Senator Jessop.  We should widen the responsibility of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  so that he has at his elbow a special fund from which he can draw for national road development. 
I did not have the opportunity when Estimates Committee E was dealing with the Department of Transport to join in the discussion. It is obvious that I, like many others, was involved in other Estimates committees and so did not have the opportunity. I wish to speak briefly about division 957 subdivision 2 relating to capital works and services for the Australian National Railways.  Senator Robertson  has made some remarks on this matter. Perhaps before I make my comments I should go back to the previous motion that was dealt with by the Committee of the Whole to say that regardless of whether the motion was passed in a broad or narrrow form, I expect that the Government will continue finance for the sealing of the south road. It is my understanding that there will be a build-up of funds in the ensuing two years; so, regardless of that motion it is my understanding that there will be increased funding. I certainly expect that of the Government. 
Now that the standard guage line is being built from Tarcoola to Alice Springs, Australia can be well proud of the construction work that has taken place. This is probably one of the biggest railway line constructions that has taken place in Australia for many a year, and perhaps the biggest since the construction of the east-west line back in the early 1 920s. This line, which has been financed to the extent of some $ 147m, will have a continuity of funding this year of some $24m which will see construction of the line continued in accordance with the program that will see it completed in 1981. Despite this, the Australian National Railways construction team is forging ahead so well, and contractors are preparing bridges and so on, that it could well be that this line will be finished before time. 
However, there have been problems and in the last few weeks I have had discussions with the employees of the Australian National Railways, with the local council in Alice Springs and with various other people. I have had correspondence with the  Chairman  of the Australian National Railways Commission,  Mr Keith  Smith, over the last few weeks. He accepted my invitation to visit Alice Springs last weekend. He was able to have discussions with the Mayor of Alice Springs, local council members and industry representatives. He also met  Mr Steele,  the Minister for Transport in the new Northern Territory Government, thus developing a liaison between that Government and the Federal Government. He met a large group of businessmen who had various qualms and concerns about decisions that had not yet been made by the Government or the Australian National Railways Commission. He was invited to attend a discussion with railway employees who, as  Senator Robertson  said, also have some worries about their future. 
The site of the terminal is a controversial matter. Various reports have come out over the last three years suggesting different sites. The interdepartmental committee has almost finished its inquiries. It is expected to report to the Minister for Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon, in the next few weeks. One would hope that the report will be available in February to the people and to the Government of the Northern Territory. The Federal Minister and the Australian Government have promised that, before any final decisions are made, the people will be consulted. 
There is the possibility that because of heavy losses by the Australian National Railways Commission the famous old Ghan will cease service in the new year. It is the wish of the Commission to cease running the passenger service. This would mean that there would be no passenger rail service to the Northern Territory for possibly 18 months or two years until the new line is completed. This is not acceptable to the people. It is their wish that the Ghan continue to run at least until an interim railhead is contructed at Kulgera which is just inside the Northern Territory border and where, as I have said in a previous debate, a bitumen road has been constructed. Passengers would be able to transfer to coaches to Alice Springs. People who had put their cars on the train to avoid the rough road from the south would be able to put them onto the bitumen and travel to Alice Springs on the highway from the South Australian border. There is an economic reason for doing this. If there were an outlay of $3m to expedite the construction of the railway line, it would be completed a few months earlier. This would bring about a reduction in the losses which the Australian National Railways Commission is experiencing. 
As I have said, further discussions have taken place on the railhead. A decision has not yet been made but it appears that a site in Alice Springs will receive general agreement. This will allow the Australian National Railways Commission to return land to Alice Springs. As  Senator Robertson  said, it would eventually mean houses being removed and employees of the Commission being housed by a Northern Territory authority. It would also allow the line to continue through Alice Springs. It is the wish of many people in the Northern Territory that, for the development of the Northern Territory and to service our northern coast, the Government should consider the construction of the line not only to Alice Springs but also to Darwin. This would meet the promise made so many years ago that the Federal Government would be responsible for a line traversing Australia from north to south. I call upon the Government to investigate the feasibility and viability of such a line. The time has come when a survey of the rail should be commenced to see how long construction would take and what finance would be required and to ascertain the viability of the rail. Viability of course, must be balanced with the development of the north. We need more people and more development. 
I suggest that a survey of the line take place from Alice Springs to Birdum which is the southernmost point of the old narrow gauge line which no longer is used. There should be a further survey to the city of Darwin. This is where I would expect heavier expenditure to be necessary because a new line would surely not follow the track of the old narrow gauge line that wound around the country. Parts of the line that were constructed years ago would now take the standard gauge line. I am referring to bridges et cetera in the Birdum-Katherine area. Surely this would be a most economic way of constructing the line. The Australian National Railways Commission has the expertise, the construction gangs and the equipment for quick Une laying. This should be used to continue the line to Darwin. This matter should be looked at, perhaps not with the idea of an ultimate committal to the construction of the line but at least a committal to survey the feasibility and requirements of the line. The line along which the old Ghan runs is famous. It has been suggested by various people in Alice Springs, members of the Legislative Assembly and others, that a portion of the line should be retained as an historic link with some of the rolling stock. The  Chairman  of the Australian National Railways Commission is enthusiastic in this regard. 
Last, but not least, I refer to the people whose lives, to some degree, will be disrupted by the discontinuation of use of the old narrow gauge line and the construction of the standard gauge line, that is, the employees of the Australian National Railways Commission. From discussions with the  Chairman,  it appears that there will be a requirement for most of them. Many now have their own houses in Alice Springs. It is likely that a few will return to Port Augusta. 
That is being assessed at the moment. Because there will be a busy terminal in Alice Springs, naturally there will be a demand for railway employees. Perhaps some of those employed in the maintenance section will go back to Port Augusta. I also support the remarks made by  Senator Robertson  when he said that the employees are treated differently from other public servants in that they receive only a rail fare to travel south whereas every other public servant receives an air fare. Another matter relates to that issue. The employees receive a rail fare only without sleeper or food. They have to go to the diner and of course the costs of that come out of their own pockets. This I think is completely unfair. Their conditions are such that they should be reviewed. I believe that the construction of this line is a momentous step. It is one for which the Government should be congratulated. Despite the difficulties these days in funding various projects throughout Australia, the funding of some $24m for this line this financial year will ensure that its construction will continue as planned and perhaps will arrive in Alice Springs a little earlier than planned. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Science. One of the hazards to the climate of Australia's north is the approach of the annual cyclone season. From experience and constant modification, Australia has evolved a good system for early warning of cyclone activity. However, in view of the vast amount of coastline subject to devastation by cyclones, has Australia any research programs planned or operating with the object of moderating a cyclone's potential for destruction or for defusing these phenomena when life and property in our towns are threatened? If other nations have programs of cyclone research operating, is the Minister aware what practical progress is being made by them? Are there any practical techniques in use at the present time for combating cyclones? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. Investors supporting the exploration of off-shore oil and gas ventures are given taxation concessions to encourage development. Bearing in mind that the time is drawing nearer when Australia 's fossilised fuels will be depleted, does the Government intend giving the same incentives for investment to assess reserves of oil and gas on the mainland? 
I present the following petition from 246 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
We the undersigned being residents of Groote Eylandt support Section 2 on Entry to Seas adjoining Aboriginal Land of the Report by the Joint Select Committee into Aboriginal Land Rights for the following reasons: 
. The Report gives adequate scope for Traditional Owners to apply for closure of waters around sacred areas. 
We believe we should share equal right with other Australians who do not require a Permit to utilize the sea for non commercial fishing, recreation or bathing. 
We would submit that whilst the Northern Land Council and Department of Aboriginal Affairs desire the granting of ownership of the seas by two (2) kilometers the average Groote Eylandt Aboriginal does not. 
Should further restrictions be placed on Europeans living here who are presently restricted in their movements to the Groote Eylandt Mining Company lease, such restrictions would be discriminatory and would lead to a complete breakdown of relations between the Black and White communities. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Support the recommendations of the Joint Select Committee into Aboriginal Land Rights in respect of Section 2 of those recommendations. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. I draw his attention to the Yirara newsletter which is circulating in the Northern Territory. Under a paragraph entitled 'Dark Clouds Ahead' it outlines the fears that the future of Aboriginal colleges is under threat because their running costs are high and funds may not be forthcoming. Is the Minister in a position to advise what is the future of such colleges as Yirara and Kormilda? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
Who are the joint venturers in the uranium lease managed by Central Pacific Minerals, west of the Yuendumu in the Northern Territory, and what percentage is held by Australian interests. 
Is the Atomic Energy Commission endeavouring to sell its share in the project. If so, will any purchase be restricted to an Australian interest, or will the Atomic Energy Commission 's share be sold to overseas interests regardless of a possible Australian minority holding. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Many people living in the country and isolated areas of Australia rely on the mail services for the delivery of their local and national newspapers. In addition to newspapers, they also rely on the mail for the delivery of various publications issued by nonprofit making groups, including the Returned Services League, trade unions, rural associations, charity organisations, pensioner organisations, incapacitated persons clubs and various religious groups. These numerous associations facilitate the distribution of their communications through the use of category A registered mail. I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that next year Australia Post is proposing to impose an increase of 30 per cent to 40 per cent on the postage rate of these category A articles. Does the Minister appreciate the serious consequences of this action to people living in remote areas? Will he confer with Australia Post before it inflicts this burden upon country dwellers and ensure that these excessive increases are moderated or not even pursued? 
I support the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978. Of course, when one looks at the second reading speech of the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  in another place, it becomes quite obvious that for the Ranger project to be brought into a workable situation whereby uranium can be mined, it is most necessary for the proposed amendments to be passed. When one looks at the provisions of the old atomic energy legislation, which I think was introduced in 1945, relating to the mining of uranium, it is obvious that that legislation is quite outmoded. 
I am very pleased to see that we have reached the stage where agreement has been reached between the Northern Land Council and the Government so that Peko-EZ can commence mining. In the last year or two there has been a lot of emotion, some hysteria and a tremendous amount of activity leading up to the point where we can now see the commencement of the mining of this uranium. I think many people have really forgotten that the mining of uranium in the Northern Territory is not something new but really commenced many years ago, in the late 1940s or early 1950s, at Moline east of Katherine and at Batchelor, Rum Jungle, where the Australian Atomic Energy Commission developed uranium. Uranium was developed there quietly for many years and that source of supply was used for very many purposes, including meeting Australia's obligations overseas. October 1975 saw the memorandum of understanding of the Labor Government brought into being and which, if I remember rightly, was signed by  Mr Whitlam, Mr Connor, Dr Cairns  and perhaps one other person on behalf of the Government and by the people of Peko-Mines Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd to bring about the commencement of further uranium development. It appeared in those days that the development and mining of uranium were going to be another phase in Australia's development but, of course, this situation did not come about. The inquiry by  Mr Justice  Fox and various other events brought about a most controversial situation. 
I believe that the people who have been against the development of uranium, particularly those people in the Northern Territory, who endeavoured during the negotiations with the Aboriginal people to prevent them from coming to an agreement, used every method under the sun to prevent the Ranger Uranium Mining Agreement from being made. I think the way that the Aboriginal people were used and abused is most unfortunate, to say the least. I believe that this sort of thing will continue for quite a long time until these people are prevented in some way from putting pressure on the Aboriginal people. The people who have put pressure on the Aboriginal people are supposed to be leaders in Australian society. They come from the churches, from government and from various other spheres. I believe that there is absolutely no excuse for them to have done what they did in putting pressure on the Aboriginal people. I have mentioned previously the publications that were passed amongst the Aboriginal people in Arnhem Land. These publications were printed in a comic-type format and, when tied to their culture and their laws, were an attempt to bring about tremendous fears in the minds of the Aboriginal people as to what would happen to them if uranium were developed. One particular cartoon depicted the myth of the sacred snake on Mount Brockman. The Aboriginals believe that if this snake is disturbed it will come alive, cast itself upon the Aboriginal people and gulp them down in large lumps, with the tribe disappearing. This is how the situation was presented to the Aboriginal people. This cartoon showed the snake, with its head reared, coming from Mount Brockman and gulping down the tribe. Another one depicted an Aboriginal woman carrying a child and showed that uranium was killing the child. 
I think all members of the Government and all members of the Opposition received copies of this paper. It originated from Elcho Island and is readily available now. I hasten to say that it was not put out by the Uniting Church in Australia but by people within the church and by people who were employed by the Department of Education and other departments and who, because of the facilities available to them and the fact that they lived among the Aboriginal people, had an influence on the Aboriginal people. This situation is not yet finished. My understanding is that although the Government has come to an agreement with the Aboriginal people, another book is being prepared. I think that is most unfortunate. As far as I am concerned, this type of person should be picked up and cast out of the country because he is endeavouring to destroy the minds of the Aboriginal people and is using and abusing them. There is very little room now for many European people in the land of the Aboriginal people, because many of the Europeans who are there now and who have been there in the past are left wing activists who have used the Aboriginal people. 
I can prove it. I am proving it now. I do not know why the honourable senator should take exception to my remarks. I am proving it by telling the Senate of this book. I could prove it also by what is documented and what one reads in newspapers of the discussions and moves that took place in the negotiations for the signing of the Ranger agreement between the Aboriginal people and the Government. One saw that the left wing advisers were ultimately kicked out by the Aboriginal people because of the frustrations they were causing to them. 
I draw the Senate 's attention to the actions of a most courageous person. If he were a European he would be looked upon possibly as one of the leading young Australians. But this person is not a European. He is a young Aboriginal person. He originated from Arnhem Land. He has had the courage and fortitude to stand up against these left wing activists- the people who are endeavouring to use his Aboriginal people and to destroy them. I refer to Galarrwuy Yunupingu. 
I do not think that I have ever criticised him. If I have, that remains to be seen. But I have certainly not criticised him in the context of the actions he has taken in this situation. This young person, whom one has to admire, has not been in the sophisticated surrounds of most European people; he has not had that contact. Nevertheless, he has had the ability to stand up for his race and, I believe, to lead them to the fine and honourable decision which has taken place. This is still not enough for the antagonists, the people who are endeavouring, even now, to destroy the system, his actions and the agreement that has been made. Only last week I read in a Press statement that  Mr Hawke  is now to go to Arnhem Land to discuss the matter further with  Mr Galarrwuy  Yunupingu. In fairness to this person, could he not be left alone with his Aboriginal people to work out their future in Arnhem Land and in what we call the Kakudu National Park, the uranium province, or whatever one wishes to call it? Now that the decision has been reached that mining should continue, why should these people not be left alone to work out their future? 
The amendments proposed in the Bill are quite reasonable. If one goes back to the memorandum of understanding that was arranged by the Labor Government in October 1975 one will see that it agreed to put up 72  Vi  per cent of the capital in return for a 50 per cent equity. I believe that the former Labor Government should be commended for showing initiative and backing this project in the first place, thereby bringing about this development, but I do not believe that it is the role of government in the future to exceed its holding of 50 per cent equity in the Ranger project. I think that it is quite reasonable for the Government's capital inflow to be reduced from 72 Vi per cent to 50 per cent. 
We must also consider the continuation of the project. Under previous arrangements, this vast development would have taken place on very shaky grounds. The tenure of the lease was insufficient. Everyone must agree that if tremendous development of the type envisaged is to take place a firm tenure must be arrived at. Of course, this has not been the case. How could this tremendous development, costing many millions of dollars, be expected to take place in the north of Australia on the shaky foundations that would have existed if this amending Bill had not been introduced? 
I think that I should raise another point at this stage. When we are considering the future of uranium mining we must remember that, particularly in the last two years, the people of the Northern Territory- in fact, people throughout Australia- have become more and more interested in the development and surveillance of northern Australia. Some people may not believe it but this uranium development will bring about tremendous developments. It will bring about development in other sections of the mining industry in that other minerals will be required. It will bring about developments in the transport industry. We will see the construction of a uranium town. More importantly, Darwin Harbour will be developed. A large number of jobs also will be created. No one would dispute that the unemployment situation in the Northern Territory at the moment is bad. However, the mining of uranium will bring about great advances in the Northern Territory. One may ask why uranium mining will have an effect on surveillance. The fact is that with the development of the north and the movement of people into the north, more people will settle in the remote areas. If the country is opened up in this way and more people move into the area, I say to those people who are concerned about the surveillance of the Northern Territory- I am one of themthat this will bring about more safeguards for the future. 
I wish to refer briefly to the clauses of the Bill. The initial authority for mining is issued for a period of 21 years. Clause 6 seeks to insert a new section 4 1C in the Act. It states, in part, that the applicants should apply in writing to the Minister not earlier than 6 years and not later than 4 years before the expiration of the mining period. Proposed new section 4 lc (3) states: 
Where an application is made under sub-section ( 1 ), the Minister administering the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 shall endeavour to obtain, not later than one year before the expiration of the mining period, the extension of the agreement referred to in paragraph (a) - 
Proposed new section 41c (4) (b) states: as soon as practicable, but not later than 6 months before the expiration of the rnining period, give to the applicants a notice in writing setting out those conditions and restrictions. 
Proposed new section 41c (5) states that the applicant has to indicate within three months following the receipt of the notice, through an application to the Minister, that he wants to have an extension of the lease. Perhaps the Minister can answer a question I want to ask. Perhaps the answer is to be found in the Bill and I have overlooked it. However, the Bill has not been in front of us for very long. It was introduced only yesterday. Bearing in mind all the problems and negotiations that have taken place in the last few months, what will happen in the future if the Minister is not in a position to offer the rnining company an extension of lease, as dealt with in clause 6? A problem may arise which is similar to the problem which arose this year when the Government was not in a position to bring about an agreement. At the end of the first period of extension there could be a breakdown in consultations or negotiations. Is it not a fact that the Minister may not be in a position to offer to the applicant- that is the term used in the Bill- what has been stated in new section 4 lc (3)? The proposed new section states in part: 
. shall endeavour to obtain, not later than one year before the expiration of the mining period- 
The term 'shall endeavour to obtain' puts fears in my mind that in the future- perhaps at the end of this 21 -year period- we will once again have to go through all the tremors and strains that the people of Australia have had to experience in the last few months. I support the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
What plans does Telecom Australia have to upgrade television and radio facilities in the Australian outback. 
Does Telecom Australia intend to provide television translators for isolated areas of Australia, such as the Bathurst-Melville Island area of the Northern Territory. 
What is the Government's intention concerning improved facilities for isolated people in the Alice Springs and Katherine areas of the Northern Territory. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. A media report in Darwin states that unalienated Crown land in the Northern Territory subject to Aboriginal land claims, such as a recent claim on the island Dum-im-mime in the vicinity of Darwin, is owned by the Northern Territory community. The Northern Territory Attorney-General has said that there is a positive duty to examine each claim to determine whether and to what extent the public interest will be thereby affected. This would then be a guide for future action, either opposition or support. It was also reported that claim books had not been lodged by applicants to indicate on what facts their claims rest. Is the Minister in a position to clarify this situation? 
I rise to speak on a brighter note than the previous  speaker.  As I have often said in the Senate, I think that in the north of Australia there is a challenge ahead for Australia and that challenge is being met by people who are active and have faith in the future. Whilst there may be one or two small problems, they are part of life. The Northern Territory is developing now and accepting responsibilities. After all, when one looks back one sees that it was only last year that the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill was passed by the Senate. This has been an enormous task because it is the first time in the history of Australia that a territory has grown to something like the proportions of a State. The Northern Territory is not yet a State, but I can assure not only you,  Mr President,  and other honourable senators but also the people of Australia that the north is moving. The people of the north have confidence in themselves and the work that is being carried out now will be seen for decades ahead as a firm, good and stable foundation for their future. 
This Bill is a machinery Bill, as the Government has indicated. It is legislation that is necessary to cover certain aspects of Commonwealth authorities paying payroll tax to the Northern Territory Government. As speakers on both sides of the chamber have indicated, there is little to be said on this particular aspect, because the revenue from payroll tax instead of going into the Federal coffers will, under arrangements similar to those applicable to the States, now go to the Northern Territory Government. What has happened in the intervening period in relation to payroll tax which has been gathered within the Northern Territory? The Northern Territory Government has made certain moves. In the few brief months since the legislation was introduced it has made an adjustment which will be of benefit to people engaged in small businesses. What has occurred is that the level at which payroll tax is payable has risen. This will have the effect of helping small business people. It will give them more incentive and make assistance in becoming part of the new Northern Territory scene. When one looks at the turnover of small business one realises that the amount of payroll tax involved under this measure is not inconsiderable. 
I could speak at length about this subject, but perhaps I should refer to the debate which took place in the House of Representatives when this legislation was passed by that House. In that debate the Opposition spokesman on the Northern Territory, the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  said, as  Senator Robertson  said on behalf of honourable senators on the other side of the Senate, that he was not opposed to the Bill. But he went on to say that it would be far more equitable, to leave the payroll tax abolished. That is the first point. I suppose it would be true to say that everyone in Australia would like to see payroll tax abolished. I suppose it would be true to say that they would like to see most forms of taxation abolished. Who would not? If it were, we would be living in a dream time and a dream country; but unfortunately the fact of the matter is that, while the country requires these vast resources to be spent in the fields of education, health and social security, someone has to pay. 
Everyone, whether he be in the Government, the Opposition, or living in the country, realises that the demand covering these three aspects of expenditure in Australia is enormous in its implications- so enormous, as I have said, that to some degree I find it frightening. The implications of this situation are so enormous in regard to cost that it will have the effect of reducing government expenditure in some areas in which many Australians would like to see it maintained. I refer, for instance, to defence. But that is another matter. What I am saying is that, because of the Government's requirements to make these outlays throughout Australia, there is a necessity to raise money. Unfortunately, payroll tax is part of the revenue gathering process, and payroll tax is part of the situation in the Northern Territory too. 
That is quite right. When the Labor Party made these arrangements and promises it suddenly found in 1975 that the country ran out of money. I can well remember that in May 1975 it could not pay the accounts of the small business people, the contractors, and so on. 
I turn to unemployment. In this respect the Labor Government did extreme damage to the Aboriginal people of Australia generally, but particularly of the Northern Territory. At that time, a training allowance was payable to the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory for their labour, but the training allowance was discontinued. 
I feel sorry for the honourable senator. In view of the way in which he sees things, it is no wonder that the Government of which he was a member brought the country to financial ruin. The training allowance was removed and then the Aboriginal people received no financial assistance whatsoever. They were then paid the unemployment benefit. 
Let me turn to the situation which  Senator Robertson  mentioned a few minutes ago when he was speaking to the Bill, namely, the unemployment situation in the Northern Territory. 
The figures that I extracted today show that in the Northern Territory 4995 people are unemployed. That is a large number. It represents 9. 1 8 per cent of the work force. But the point 1 am making is that because the Labor Party discontinued the payment of training allowances to Aboriginal people they then had to apply for the unemployment benefit. At the present time 38.4 per cent of the total number of people who receive the unemployment benefit in the Northern Territory are Aboriginal. 
It is most interesting to look at the figures. Let us start with the situation in Darwin. There are 2,745 people unemployed in Darwin, and Aboriginal people comprise 12Vi per cent of that figure. But the figure in relation to those unemployed in Darwin is rather different from those for the rest of the Territory. Many of the people included in this figure, other than Aboriginal people, are people who have come to the Top End of the Northern Territory for various reasons. They are swelling the ranks of the unemployed. In Katherine there are 622 people unemployed, of whom the Aboriginal component is 405. That means that 65 per cent of those unemployed in the Katherine area are Aboriginal people. 
Prior to that they worked on the settlements under the training allowance scheme. The Labor Government introduced the present situation which has brought them to extremely poor circumstances. In Alice Springs there are 1628 unemployed, and the Aboriginal component is 1168, or 71 per cent. 
No, I am afraid not. The Government of which  Senator Cavanagh  was a member is accountable. This is the sorry story of youth unemployment in the Northern Territory. I deplore the unemployment figures that I am about to give to the Senate. But the fact is that we have this sorry story of youth unemployment in the Northern Territory. Bearing in mind that the total unemployment figure for the Northern Territory is 4,995, we find that the total youth unemployment figure is 184. In Darwin there are 144 unemployed youth, in Katherine there are 16 and in Alice Springs there are 24. 
One should look at the magnificent job that is being done, through the Commonwealth Employment Service, at the youth job centre at 
Edmond Street in Darwin. That centre provides a particular service for youth unemployed. Much is being done there. I go further and make a comment regarding the spokesman for the Opposition on the Northern Territory. The Commonwealth Authorities (Northern Territory Pay-roll Tax) Bill was introduced on 24 August. The Opposition spokesman when discussing the Bill stated:   . . the Whitlam Government had abolished, certain investment allowances which have been and are an encouragement to industry to speed up the elimination of jobs- the replacement  of labour  by machines . . . 
What absolute rot. The investment allowance applied in Australia gave encouragement to the search for oil and gas in the outback of Australia. It brought about immense returns to the communities and tremendous employment. But at the stroke of a pen the Labor Party Government cut out the investment allowance and therefore in the outback it brought development to a standstill and unemployment mounted rapidly. He continued: 
. had imposed a resources tax rather than the impost that has been placed on consumers of petrol in this country. 
That statement is absolute rot. Let us look at the cost of petrol to consumers in the outback. I refer to the Review of the Continuing Expenditure Policies of the previous Government. The document is dated June 1973. In it is a copy of a letter that the Prime Minister at the time,  Mr Whitlam,  wrote to  Dr Coombs  stating: 
Action be set in train to apply a close scrutiny to continuing policies of the previous Government so that room may be found for our own higher priority programs. 
Of course, the time I am referring to here is that period when the previous Government- that is the Liberal-National Country Party Government- was in power and introduced the petrol subsidy scheme. But what happened then? I refer to this matter only because the Opposition spokesman in the other place referred to it. The Prime Minister of the day,  Mr Whitlam,  then had  Dr Coombs  review the petroleum products subsidy scheme. 
The price then, of course, was 3.3c per gallon dearer in the outback than in any other centre. In regard to this situation,  Dr Coombs  stated: 
Moreover, there is little economic logic in providing a subsidy which encourages people to remain in remote locations such that the greatest encouragement goes to those most remote. Distance involves a real cost to the community and any subsidy considered necessary would be better paid directly rather than in the blanket fashion involved in a price equalisation scheme. 
He was saying: 'Let us wipe the petroleum subsidy scheme for those few people in the outback because they do not count'. One of the possibilities he gave to  Mr Whitlam  was to discontinue the existing program. For those who are interested, I refer them to this particular document in which there are four choices. But what did the Labor Government do? In this particular instance it discontinued the existing program which meant that, as far as the people of the outback were concerned, they went into a period when fuel costs and living costs went up. Ever since then we have heard whining from the other side of the Senate. In reality, the commencement of this downturn, this infliction on the people of the outback, came from the direction of  Mr Whitlam  to  Dr Coombs.  The fuel subsidy scheme was removed, and the Opposition spokesman in the other place had the hide to speak about the cost of petrol in the outback as if it were their own problem. 
Now, of course, the Government has reintroduced the fuel subsidy scheme and at least the people in the outback are getting a better go. Another point is that when this scheme was removed from the people of the outback certain things happened. I shall take honourable senators into the Top End of the Northern Territory, where at that time there existed the North Australia Railway which ran from Darwin to Larrimah, the Frances Creek mining company and so on. When the fuel equalisation scheme was removed fuel costs went up dramatically and, as the North Australia Railway was using liquid fuel and not coal, its freight rates went up. The North Australia Railway then put pressure on Frances Creek, which was then the iron ore town in the Northern Territory. Pressure was put on to such an extent that the Frances Creek iron ore company found that it could not trade economically. At that particular time its freight bill to the North Australia Railway increased and, because of the freight rate, its operation was uneconomic. It could not pay the North Australia Railway freight bill. 
As the Frances Creek company was the main customer of the North Australia Railway and as it could not pay the bills that then made the North Australia Railway uneconomic. Then what did we have? We had the collapse of the Frances Creek company and we had the collapse of the North Australia Railway. It has been said so many times in this place that that was the responsibility and the fault of this Government. However, the fault goes back to that day when  Mr Whitlam,  the Prime Minister, told  Dr Coombs  to look at ways that the various schemes and expenditures of the previous Government could be removed so that the Labor Party Government could bring in its own ideas. It wiped and destroyed many aspects of the life of the people in the outback. 
I could go on at length in regard to this particular matter. When one loks at the rather ridiculous charges and criticisms that have been made one finds that they can all be answered. I shall answer them some other time. 
Let me go back briefly to the time in the affairs of the Northern Territory when there has been despondency, criticism and pessimism about the future of the north and of the Northern Territory Government. As I have said before, the transfer of power occurred less than one year ago. If one took close note of the situation in the Northern Territory, one would find that there was a new spirit abroad in industry and in the people of the north. Industries are being developed and roads are being put in. For once in their lives the people of the north feel that they are part of government. There is no room for pessimism and there is no room for despondency because the Northern Territory, like its fellow states of Western Australia and Queensland, will play a large part in the future of Australia. 
The Government Insurance Office is a bold venture which has been embarked upon by the Northern Territory Government which believes it will be for the benefit of the Northern Territory people. Of course there are problems. When one introduces a scheme like this amendments and adjustments have to be made. Has anyone seen a scheme which has not needed some adjustment or amendment? I discount the criticism that has been made in regard to the Northern Territory Government and the Chief Minister. There is liaison and communication today as there has been liaison and communication on other days. People are putting their viewpoint as to what should and should not be done. I believe that this ability of the people and industries of the Territory to communicate with and speak to each other will result in what everyone wishes and desires. 
I support the Bill. As I have said before, it is a machinery Bill, it is necessary, it is part of life, it is part of the adjustment that is needed as a result of the transference of Federal Government powers to the Northern Territory. However, the legislation has given some people the opportunity to air their pessimism, to knock and so on. But thank goodness that knockers and pessimists in the north express a minority viewpoint. The future of the north and the people of the Territory will be determined not by knocking but rather by confidence and looking ahead to achievement. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Has the Government decided to construct a patrol boat base in Darwin to facilitate servicing, maintenance, victualling, and so on of the vessels involved in the surveillance and defence of our northern coast? If so, at what stage is the planning of the project? 
It was very interesting to sit back and listen to  Senator Wheeldon  express his thoughts on world affairs. There is no doubt that it was a very capable and interesting speech. Of course, there are some aspects of it with which one could not go along, but I shall deal with those a little later.  Senator Wheeldon  spoke first about human rights and democracy. I believe that that is what the statement delivered to the Senate this afternoon is all about. The statement put down by the Government is a statement on human rights and democracy and how Australia sees the world situation.  Senator Wheeldon  made quite a few points with which one could agree. He implied that the situation is that in Australia there is a lackadaisical- he did not actually use the word lackadaisical'- or could-not-care-less approach to world affairs; that we are completely unaware of and certainly uncaring about the world situation. I agree that the present situation is probably worse than any that we have experienced over the last few decades. I compare the present situation with that which prevailed from 1937 to 1939. Things got out of control to such an extent then that we became engaged in a second world war which nearly destroyed the world. That could very easily happen again. I do not think that the people who are creating the present chaos have within themselves the power to stop. The situation is so inflammatory that reason could easily snap and we could become engaged in a third world war. 
In tracing the problems that exist round the world today and the fighting in various areas  Senator Wheeldon  very rightly highlighted the fact that problems exist within the communist camps, regardless of their various philosophies. I was fortunate last year to visit Japan, China and the Phillippines. Those visits were very interesting, particularly the visit to China. I was later asked to undertake a second trip at the invitation of the governments of Romania, the Soviet Union and Hungary. After leaving the Communist bloc countries I took it upon myself to go to Iran. I was told that it was an interesting country and that things were happening there. I thought that I should see it for myself. I saw something that I did not expect to see. I thought I would see an up-and-coming country. However, last July it was obvious that Iran was on the brink of revolution. 
I now turn to the problems which exist in China, Russia and Kampuchea. When I visited China I spoke to many Chinese officials. To the best of my ability I also spoke to the Chinese people. I went into the back streets of various towns. Language, of course, was a problem. I believe that the Chinese do not really have any ambitions to invade for invasion's sake, to gather more territory and to squeeze and squash the people along its borders. I believe that the Chinese have invaded Vietnam because they have an extreme fear of what they call the Black Bear. 
It could be obsessive. However, one can understand that fear. China's border with Russia extends for thousands of kilometres. The Chinese have seen so many movements by Russia. They have seen the strength of Russia. They know that it is a country with much more sophisticated weapons and vast amounts of armaments. I am not protecting China. I agree with the Australian Government that its invasion of Vietnam should come to a halt. But we must appreciate why the Chinese feel the way they do and why they have taken this action. They fear Russia. Russia is engaging in many activities not only along the Chinese border but also in various other parts of the region. The Chinese may have an obsessive fear but, regardless of that, their thoughts day by day are directed towards Russia. They are wondering what Russia will do and whether it is endeavouring to squash them. This is reflected in the attitude of the Chinese people. 
In this regard I refer to the underground city of which the Chinese are so proud. They spend their leisure time, of which they have very little, digging that city. They believe it is necessary because one day the bombs, the artillery and the tanks of Russia may descend upon them. People have been impressed with the underground city. I was not impressed. I believe that the work put into it has only been a means of allowing the people to relieve their pent up emotions and their fear of Russia. I think that this work will be of little avail. The Chinese have seen the Russians- or the Soviets as they like to be called- do certain things. Perhaps the Chinese believe that they are being encircled. I wonder whether China's invasion of Vietnam would have taken place if the Soviets had not made a treaty with the people of Vietnam. Possibly the Chinese felt that they had to take this move. In doing so, perhaps they underestimated the strength of the people of Vietnam. Whilst Vietnam is a smaller country, the Vietnamese are experienced fighters. They are possibly as good at fighting as anyone in today's modern world. They have sophisticated weapons. 
The Chinese said that their raid into Vietnam was only punitive, but we have to think beyond that. We can no longer look at such a raid as punitive. It is likely that the fighting in Vietnam will bog down, as it did between the French and the Vietnamese and the United States and Vietnam. The danger is that the fighting could escalate into a war in which China poured such manpower and resources into Vietnam that the Vietnamese would at last bring forward- I do not believe that they have done so yet- their crack troops to fight the Chinese. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was discussing the fact that China and Vietnam are locked in battle. I said that the time could come when China would find it most difficult to extricate itself from the position in which it has now placed itself. I think that one of the real fears is that this punitive battle- if I can call it that- could escalate into something that could easily be akin to a world war. We may find that the Chinese become locked in battle and are unable to remove themselves from Vietnam. This would place the Vietnamese in a most difficult situation. Russia is hovering on the sidelines and may well decide to join- indeed it may be forced into a situation where it would have to join- forces with Vietnam. If that happens one wonders where it will all finish. 
It has been said before- many honourable senators have said the same thing, as has  Senator Wheeldon  who spoke before me in this debatethat the battles and the wars that are taking place now are communist-based. They are based on the various philosophies and ideologies of communism which are confronting each other. Of course, we could well reach the stage when communist countries are at war. If that happens, we then have to look at the European situation, at the communist bloc countries and their association with the Soviet Union. I refer to Yugoslavia, Hungary and Romania. These satellite countries attached to the Soviet are, in many ways, flexing their muscles. They are not flexing their muscles for the first time because that happened in 1956 in Hungary. It has happened in other places where there have been revolutions and where Soviet tanks have entered countries and brought about civil wars, thereby suppressing those countries. These countries remember well that their youth and their people were conquered and killed by the Soviet who are now supposed to be their friends. 
A very uneasy situation exists. Of course, the battle between these two giant communist countries has now extended to Europe. China has endeavoured to woo Hungary away from the Soviet bloc. This is a most dangerous and difficult situation. It has been said, of course, that Soviet troops would never fight outside a communist country. I appreciate the viewpoint of the honourable senator who said that. I spent some time in Russia only last June and July. It is my view that Russia has a fine fighting machine. It has an immense number of very well trained troops who are ready for action. I think that if the situation ever arose and the troops were required there is absolutely no doubt that the Russian people would participate in order to prove their supremacy. 
I think it is a pity that this situation exists. I commend the Government for bringing forward this paper and for bringing forward other papers in the last week or so. I believe that these papers must be of interest to the Australian nation. They surely must make Australians interested and more aware of the problems that confront the world, particularly those problems confronting South East Asia and indeed Australia. We are a part of the South East Asian area and as soon as we realise that we will appreciate where we stand and what we have to do. At page 5 of the paper delivered today a very important point was raised. The paper discusses this situation and states: 
My fourth general observation is that all the conflicts and instability to which I have referred are taking place in Third World countries. 
That is quite true. It is a grapple for power by the communist giants. The statement goes on to state: 
Those who believe that the Government's emphasis on Third World matters is misplaced should ponder this. Over the last three decades, the strategic, ideological and economic interests of the great powers have consistently interacted with the affairs of the Third World. To that extent there is nothing new in the present situation. 
One of the most important facts coming out of this paper is contained in the last paragraph on page 5. It reads: 
But there is one difference. Over the last few years, and for a variety of reasons, one of the superpowers- the United States- has adopted a lower posture and a strategically less active policy towards the Third World. Many, inside the United States and outside it, have welcomed this. I will simply observe, as a matter of fact, that this restraint has not resulted in a greater insulation of the Third World from international power politics. On the contrary, it has coincided with the rapid rise of the situation we now face. 
That is only too true when one looks at the current situation, when one sees the struggles and the wars that are taking place now within communist countries. Would these struggles and wars have reached this tempo if the United States had not stepped back several steps and if it had not, as the paper stated, adopted a lower posture? Perhaps some people in the United States felt that by taking this action there would be less trouble in the world. If they did feel that, of course they have been proven wrong. The United States reduced its posture by stepping backwards. I believe what the United States has done is to allow the communist countries to exercise their full power in many countries throughout the world. The communist countries are now endeavouring to swallow the smaller countries. Perhaps that is only a side effect. The main effect, of course, is that it is a world contest between Russia and China as to which country will be the supreme being within the communist world. 
Much has been said about Australia's role. Much criticism has been made of the Australian Government inasmuch as supposedly little has been done. I think that we have to be realistic now and ascertain where Australia stands in the world situation. We have to determine our ability to influence the problems that confront various countries. Let us examine the situation since World War II. We were very lucky during that war to escape being conquered and destroyed. Many people do not realise this fact. People living in the north today still remember the fact that many Australians were killed on Australian soil. Many Australians were bombed and machinegunned in Darwin. Australia tasted war and was very lucky that it was not conquered. The Coral Sea battle and other such battles saved Australia. Australia was very fortunate. From that day I think Australian people have looked inwards. They have wanted more. They have disregarded where they live in the globe. They have allowed themselves to become a rather spoilt type of society, wanting money spent on them in various forms, thus gulping the amount that the Government can spend each year in the Budget. Little thought has been given by Australian people to ensuring that Australia remains a healthy country. To my mind a healthy country is one that can defend itself. I do not say that we should fight a war on another country's soil but a healthy country is one where defences are in a suitable situation. 
A suitable situation is one in which we have sufficient people in our services to provide the necessary surveillance and to defend Australia. The Army, Navy and Air Force need strengthening. If we wish to participate in world affairs and to have our voice heard, not only must we be able to go to the United Nations to put various views and ideas forward, thus seek solutions through that body; we must also be in a state of preparedness. We are not in that state today. 
At the close of the paper there is a reference to the inertia and complacency of the nation. Surely the time has come when we must realise that if we are to reach a healthy situation in this regard we must improve our defence capability. I believe that under the circumstances facing this nation the Australian Government has done a lot. I would expect that Australia, a nation in South East Asia, will continue its endeavours to exert influence in the United Nations and with the various countries now engaged in battle as well as with those which have not yet gone to battle. I believe that that is all that Australia can do because we are a mere 15 million people and not so far from us now divisions, and immense number of them are locked in mortal combat. I appreciate the paper that has been brought forward. I believe it is the third paper produced recently. I believe that the Government is bringing to the Australian people the facts of the situation today. I hope that we in Australia will not remain in this situation of inertia; I hope that we will stand by the Australian Government and endeavour to bring about a situation which will stop this war developing. 
For too long Australian people have considered that we are still a British colony- that we are still attached to the British Isles and to Europe. People forget. They fail to realise that that situation no longer exists and that we are a part of South East Asia. For the good of Australia we must grow more and more towards South East Asia. The people of South East Asia are our neighbours and they must be our friends. I believe that the more we take this fact into consideration and move towards that end the better it will be for Australia. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs: Is it correct that the Customs vessel positioned in Darwin is to be transferred to a Western Australian base? If so, what arrangements are to be made to ensure that Customs surveillance is properly maintained in the Darwin area? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Did a report on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's AM program, 23 November 1978, state that some 200 Vietnamese refugees were drowned when their boat foundered in South East Asian waters. 
Did the report also indicate that it is believed that about 100,000 Vietnamese refugees have been lost at sea, either by drowning, or massacre by pirates. 
Does the Government accept the view that the unfortunate people who have paid to escape from Vietnam may nonetheless be regarded as refugees. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport a question. In January it was indicated that for economic reasons the Minister for Transport, on the advice of the Australian National Line, was considering removing the vessel  Darwin Trader  from the east coast Darwin route. Since then a delegation comprising Northern Territory members of parliament and industry representatives has seen the Minister in Canberra and the management of the Australian National Line in Melbourne. I understand that this meeting has been followed up by various authorities. Is the Minister now in a position to indicate the present situation in regard to the  Darwin Trader,  and, as requested by the delegation and industry, to indicate that no action will be taken to remove the  Darwin Trader  from her route until a full economic assessment is made of the whole situation? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. In answer to a question relating to the transfer of a Customs boat from Darwin to a Western Australian base, the Attorney-General indicated that the Navy would be available for civil surveillance and enforcement tasks in the area. In view of this answer, are there any restrictions on the legal ability of the Navy to take on a Customs role? Bearing in mind the varying role of a Customs officer, has a member of the Defence Forces the required background to carry out the role of such a Customs official? 
Tonight I have listened to two of the most pessimistic speeches I have heard in this Senate for a long time. It appeared to me that the two speeches preceding me were read. Of course, under Standing Orders speeches may not be read in the Senate, but tonight no point of order was taken on the matter. If honourable senators wish to read their speeches I do not worry about it. Over the last year or two when I have occasionally referred to notes honourable senators opposite have objected. But as honourable senators can see, I do not need notes for the debate tonight. 
The pessimism I have heard tonight reminds me of my history book and the time when steam power was first introduced into the world. Because the people did not understand it, and because there were many pessimists around, a steam engine was not allowed to move along a track or a road unless a man with a red flag walked ahead of it. I suggest that we are in exactly that sort of situation today. The Senate is filled with its full share of pessimists. The use of uranium in power generation is with us now and this usage will grow. People have asked what Australian uranium will be used for. The pessimists say that it will be used for the bomb. I suggest that it will be used as it is being used by some countries now to provide up to 25 per cent of their power. In Switzerland uranium is used to generate power for heating and for the general well-being of the citizens. In the future nuclear power will be directed towards the development of other nations and the well-being of their people. There is too much pessimism and too much talk about turning uranium into the bomb. After listening to the speeches in the Senate tonight, one would feel that Australia owned every bit of uranium that is being developed in the world today. People know that in fact the uranium deposits in Australia represent only 22 to 25 per cent of world reserves. 
I welcome the Government's statement tonight announcing that it has approved the development of the Nabarlek uranium deposit. This announcement has not come as a surprise to me, nor would it come as a surprise to anybody else who has taken the time to see what happens in Arnhem Land in the Northern Territory, which I represent. Senators have been invited to visit Arnhem Land and other places in the Territory to see physically what is happening. Some have gone to the Territory and some have not. Some have preferred to stay in the shelter of the Senate and make proclamations which are completely wrong. As I have said, the Nabarlek development has not come as a surprise. It has been in the pipeline for quite a long time. 
Some honourable senators have said in this place tonight that there has been no Aboriginal participation in the decision to go ahead with Nabarlek. I tell them that this is not so. If they disbelieve me, I suggest that they go north. There they would learn that the Aboriginals who own the land have participated in negotiations about the mining and milling of uranium. They would find that it would not have been possible for the Government to make a declaration tonight that mining at Nabarlek will go ahead had Queensland Mines Ltd not been able to come to an agreement in the last few months with the Northern Land Council and the traditional owners of land in the Nabarlek area. 
I have said before that there are too many people in this world and in this Senate today who chose to speak on behalf of the Aboriginal people. I do not dare to do that because I know that the Aboriginal people have the capability to speak up and look after themselves. It has been well illustrated by the way they have conducted themselves in the negotiations which led up to the eventual signing of the Ranger or Jabiru agreement. If honourable senators care to think back they will remember that it was the Aboriginal people, because of various points that they wondered about and that they were possibly perturbed about, who held up the signing of the Jabiru-Ranger agreement. Eventually the Aboriginal people decided that they had what they wanted, the agreement was in line with their wishes, and then the agreement was signed. I suggest that the same situation is occurring today. I refer to the signing of the Jabiru agreement which was between Peko- Wallsend Ltd, the Aboriginal people and the Government and to the development of the Ranger project which is beginning to take place now. Honourable senators will, of course, recall that it was quite a while before the Jabiru agreement was signed. Honourable senators will recall also that, in the early days of the negotiations, it was not the Aboriginal voice coming through to speak on their behalf; the voice of people who were in their employ was heard. These people came from various places and endeavoured to influence the Aboriginal people. So, the negotiations were held up because of these people. But the Aboriginal people saw through those who were supposedly assisting them, gave them the sack and, led by such people as Galarrwuy Yunupingu, the young  chairman  of the Northern Land Council, signed the agreement. Galarrwuy Yunupingu showed that he had the ability of a statesman and of a leader. Eventually, after receiving what he wanted, he signed the agreement on Ranger for the Aboriginal people in their own right, not with any other person speaking on their behalf. 
As I have said before, the development of Nabarlek is in line with the general development that has taken place in the Northern Territory. Regardless of what people may say or think, the development of uranium in the North is going to be tremendous for the development of the North. Not only is it going to be tremendous for the people who live in the North, but also it will provide many jobs. The Aboriginal people will derive considerable finance. People who live in other parts of Australia can be well pleased that the development of uranium will bring about the development of the North. This has been needed for very many decades. The empty North has been defenceless. Uranium is a means of developing the North. Thank goodness it is taking place now. 
The Ranger agreement has been signed. Nabarlek is on the way. There is general movement in the Northern Territory. Industry is coming to life again. Supplies are coming forth. Work is beginning on the Ranger project. As I have said before, all this is bringing about considerable employment, not only for Europeans but also for the Aboriginal people. 
It is of interest to see what mining is doing for the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory. I refer to the development of manganese. What has happened with manganese will happen with uranium. The income derived from manganese has gone into trust accounts for the Groote Eylandt people. They would have well over $2m invested in their trust accounts by now. Last year, they gathered together and asked: 'Shall we spend this money on all sorts of things or shall we just spend the interest?' I think that statement is indicative of the thinking of the Aboriginal people. They decided to look after their capital and that the income of approximately $200,000 a year would be used for the benefit of Aboriginal people in the area. I suggest that the same will happen with the development of uranium. The money that the Aboriginal people are entitled to will go into trust accounts controlled by them. They will receive much benefit from this. 
I would say that quite a lot of what has been said in the Senate tonight is misleading. Taking just one or two points that have been brought up tonight - 
Senators opposite are obviously worried that there is somebody here from the Northern Territory who can answer them. I suggest that we look at one pointenvironment. Honourable senators opposite say that there is no environmental control. I wonder whether the people making these statements to the people of Australia in the Senate tonight have been there. Have they seen the environmental impact studies that have taken place? Have they seen the physical studies that have been carried out in laboratories already in existence in the North? Have they seen the tremendous work that has taken place before agreements have been completed. There is every indication that nothing more can be done to ensure a complete environmental control? Of course, we again come to the matter of land rights. It is an argument that has been concluded. The Aboriginal people have their land. The Kakadu area may not have been proclaimed, but by agreement the Kakadu National Park is Aboriginal land which the Aboriginal people have leased back to the National Parks and Wildlife Commission. 
Referring to safety, I remind the Senate of the time when there was mining at Rum Jungle. I suppose that it commenced 25 years ago. It was in the rough and ready days of mining when the techniques such as were used at Rum Jungle were not good techniques. Interestingly, there was not one casualty in the 25 years that uranium was mined at Rum Jungle. Yet today we hear the knockers who say that we should be careful of mining uranium, even though the most modern methods will be used. That view is far from the truth. I was in Hungary last July. I found that the Hungarians are keen on developing uranium but their uranium is very deeply located. 
I do not understand what the honourable senator is saying, but I do understand that the Hungarians are digging at a depth of 5,000 to 6,000 feet. With the safeguards that they have taken, not one casualty has been suffered in the mining and development of uranium at that tremendous depth. In Australia we are talking about open cut mining. The safeguards that have been adopted in deep mining in Hungary have brought about a situation where no casualties have occurred. But it is interesting to note that in that same region in the development of coal there is a large number of casualties from tuberculosis, dust on the lungs, et cetera, resulting from damp air. 
This is a good statement and I hope the people of Australia read it. It gives an indication that the mining of uranium is on the move, that the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory are participating by agreement, that much good will come to them and that, eventually, the project will bring a tremendous return to Australia. It will not only bring a tremendous return to Australia, but also for those nations that are going to buy our uranium it will mean a considerable relief of their energy problems, because many of these nations are starved of energy now. Of course, the day must come when the reserves of uranium are eventually expended, although goodness knows when that day will be because I think the mining of uranium will continue for many decades. But when that day comes fusion will carry on the creation of energy. The work that is taking place now will mean that fusion will ensure a continuous supply of energy to meet the world 's requirements. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I note a report in the Melbourne  Age  today that in regard to the signing of the agreement with Queensland Mines Ltd for the development of the Nabarlek uranium lease, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has not yet approved of the agreement and a licence for the Northern Territory Government has not yet been granted. Is the report correct? If so, is there any particular significance in the fact that the agreement has not been completed as a package deal and some administrative actions have yet to be completed? 
As the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs had discussions in Darwin last weekend with the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory Government,  Mr Paul  Everingham, and  Mr Galarrwuy  Yunupingu,  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council, in regard to public roads, Aboriginal lands et cetera, can the Minister inform the Senate how he sees the present situation in regard to this controversial matter and what has been agreed to by the three parties involved in the discussions? Will the Minister also inform the Senate whether the registration of Aboriginal land titles will now continue, or do they require amendment? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What is the present stage of construction of the Tarcoola-Alice Springs standard rail link. 
Has the Government decided to accelerate funding of the construction of the line; if so, what will be achieved by the increased injection of funds. 
Are any figures available relating to income from, and stock numbers already being carried on, the new line, in view of the fact that it has a commercial use up to the present point of construction. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment, refers to the present status of the Ayers Rock-Mount Olga National Park. What is its present status, having in mind that the Park was proclaimed by the Governor-General on 24 May 1977 under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act, and that on 29 June 1978 under the Northern Territory (SelfGovernment) Act the Commonwealth acquired the Park, including further land in the area? Did not this move bring about a change in the status of the Park so that at one stage it became unalienated Crown land? If that is so, was this latter move calculated to bring about a situation which encouraged an Aboriginal land claim over the Park, resulting in continual worry for the small tourist operators in the area of Ayers Rock because they do not know what the future holds for them? If that is so, has the Government plans to ensure that all interests are taken into consideration? 
The remarks of  Senator Cavanagh  were, of course, nonsense. He made a reflection on Commissioner Toohey who is a judge in the Northern Territory Supreme Court. He said that Justice Toohey will grant land to the Aboriginal people only when white men do not want it or show little interest in it. I think many honourable senators would know Justice Toohey. He is a most fair man,  Senator Cavanagh  should have withdrawn the reflection he made on him. It does not do the honourable senator credit to make such remarks in the Senate under parliamentary privilege. He should not cast such a reflection on  Mr Justice  Toohey. I will not make a long speech on this matter. I just make that comment on the honourable senator's speech. Let me say this: The Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory now are laying claim to a considerable area of land. It is completely wrong to infer that the land which has been given to the Aboriginal people is poor land and that the good land which perhaps has mineral deposits has been retained. 
-I do not care what the report says. I am talking about facts. The land that has been granted to Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory is rich pastoral land. It is land on which they can make an extremely good living if they wish. It is very fertile land. We have heard enough of this nonsense. The situation in the Northern Territory now is that the Aboriginal people have about 40 per cent of the land. No one can say that all of that land is poor land. The Aboriginal land claims are proceeding. Everything is being done fairly. The Aboriginal people are being heard. However, as I indicated at Question Time this morning, there is a section of the community which is not receiving the opportunity to put its case, because of its poor financial situation. The people to whom I am referring are Europeans- the small businessmen, small tourist operators, who at the moment have great difficulty in putting their cases before  Mr Justice  Toohey for one reason, namely that they do not have the financial ability to obtain the services of the kind of people who are putting the cases for the Aboriginal people. I hope that, in fairness to all, the Government will come to the assistance of these people. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I understand that it was reported by the Australian Broadcasting Commission this morning that the Minister for Transport had said that he believed that there would be no cut in air fares between Australia and Japan and vice versa because the Japanese Government was showing no interest in developing discounted air fares. Having in mind the considerable amount of trade between the two countries over the last few years and the desirability of developing further understanding and communication between the two peoples, can the Minister advise the Senate what is the present position and possible future of incentives for air travel between Australia and Japan? 
I support the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill, the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill, the Telecommunications Amendment Bill and the Customs Amendment Bill (No. 2). I commend the Government for taking what I believe today to be a very realistic viewpoint and strong stand. I believe that by far the majority of the people of Australia is looking to government today to take the necessary actions. The position today is a far cry from the time when Australia was considered to be in a backwater. Over the last few years there has been an increasing build-up of subversive action and terrorism throughout the world. There has also been a build-up of these activities in Australia. We read day after day of acts of terrorism, murders and bombings that take place in this country. 
The time has arrived when Australians must realise that the acts of terrorism that take place in other parts of the world are unfortunately a fact of life in Australia. Only last year two unfortunate men were killed when a bomb exploded outside the Sydney Hilton Hotel at around dawn. But this bombing is not to be looked at as an isolated episode. I think that over the years there has been a general feeling throughout Australia that there is an enemy within Australia- that we are being attacked within Australia. This sounds like a melodramatic statement. But one only has to look at the situation in terms of terrorism, subversive action or drugs to see the truth of that statement. 
I come from the northern part of Australia. Many people from that area have believed for many years that action should have been taken in respect of certain activities. There are fewer people in the north of Australia and therefore the movement of people, vehicles and aircraft is more obvious to the ordinary person in the north. He sees things that he wonders about and which concern him. Of course, only last year a Royal Australian Air Force Hercules aircraft flying into Australia intercepted an aircraft which had not reported in. The aircraft was detected on radar and eventually it had to make a forced landing after being followed to Katherine. The pilot set fire to the aircraft which was, of course, loaded with drugs. This was an exceptional case. It was a case that was discovered. 
I can assure you,  Mr Deputy President,  that many reports of unidentified aircraft, of lowflying aircraft just out to sea, are coming from people who live in the north of Australia. One wonders what on earth a light aircraft would be doing in such areas. The emergency services also receive reports of aircraft which fly in over the coast. Several of these reports have been unexplained. As I have said, it is perfectly obvious to people in the north that something illegal is taking place. One hears reports of drugs being brought down through the road system of the north. For example, it is claimed that packets of drugs are carried between two tyres on a semitrailer. There have also been many instances in the north of the detection and destruction of drug crops. I believe that there are many more crops which have not yet been discovered. 
Ships and sailing boats come into Darwin Harbour from overseas. I can assure honourable senators that from my understanding of the situation many of these boats do not report in and on many occasions drugs have been and still are being brought in. I believe that these boats are part of the chain that eventually reaches the market in the eastern States. All of these factors add up to the conclusion that the average Australian is very concerned about what is happening to Australia today. 
At Question Time this afternoon  Senator Robertson,  the other senator from the Northern Territory, asked a question about a statement that was made by a Northern Territory judge in Adelaide on 27 March.  Mr Justice  Muirhead of the Northern Territory Supreme Court said that the north is open to terrorism and more surveillance is needed. I know  Mr Justice  Muirhead and I think his remarks were very timely. I think it is rather appropriate that yesterday's  Australian  should have run no fewer than half a dozen articles on terrorism at a time when we are discussing the provisions of this legislation.  Mr Justice  Muirhead is a very wise and aware person. One of the articles which appeared in yesterday's  Australian  stated: 
Australia's north is exposed and vulnerable to terrorist attack but police there have no way to counter it, a judge told a forensic science symposium on terrorist activities yesterday. 

 Mr Justice Muirhead, of the Northern Territory Supreme Court, told the conference in Adelaide that one of the basic safeguards against terrorism was surveillance of suspects. But the Northern Territory Police Force had no Special Branch, or even a plane or helicopter. 
I might just add that it is most unfortunate that the Special Branch of the Northern Territory Police Force was disbanded in, I think, 1973-74 by  Senator Murphy,  the then Attorney-General. 
As a result the secret files- the confidential files - that were held by the Special Branch of the Northern Territory Police Force were destroyed. I think that this was most unfortunate. Perhaps the honourable gentleman at that stage did not envisage that Australia was going to be attacked- attacked by the enemy within. Because of the action he took valuable records were destroyed. I would imagine that the files that were destroyed at that time could have thrown light on many situations today. Perhaps they could have provided evidence to help apprehend many of the individuals who have escaped the law today. 

 Mr Justice Muirhead has called for the setting up of a special branch once again. He also called for more surveillance. Of course, this is not now a matter for the Federal Government because the Northern Territory has, as a result of the transference of power, its own form of selfgovernment. In this respect it will now be up to the Northern Territory police force once again to develop a special branch. It is a matter which is also completely within the hands of the force. We know that in present times human rights campaigners have been undertaking more than a moderate amount of lobbying. I think that some of their actions are excessive to the extent that if we are not careful Australians will become what I and many other people "have forecast has been developing for years. We will become a nation of soft Australians. 
I am talking about the Northern Territory because, to my mind, the north is a nerve centre for all these various problems which we are talking about tonight. The Judge went on to state: 
The Northern Territory is a sensitive area, geographically exposed, and because of its minerals and diverse ethnic groups, subject to stresses, . . . Yet its police can boast no Special Branch. It was closed some years ago, I assume on orders from Canberra. 
His assumption was quite correct. He went on to say: 
Surely a basic safeguard against terrorism involves surveillance of the movements of suspected persons. 
This in turn must surely involve the maintenance of an efficient national intelligence agency- an agency which has the confidence of overseas agencies and which has components and information-gathering facilities in all States and territories. 
In short, in this area, again perhaps the views of the human rightists who appear to have a deep suspicion of the collation of records and data for policy and security purposes, may require some modification if there is to be realism and awareness of the importance of a preventative approach to the problem. 
They are very wise words from a person who, as I said before, has had considerable experience in the north. At this same conference, a police chief warned of nuclear blackmail and that terror was moving closer. Chief Superintendent J. Fletcher who is in charge of the Commonwealth Police counter-terrorist section stated at the same Sixth National Symposium on Forensic Sciences: 
Internation] terrorism had a direct interest in Australian affairs. 
The Chief Superintendent went on to say: 
Australia is no longer immune from terrorist attack and the frontiers of international terrorism are moving closer . . . Australia could also become an easy target for proxy terrorism attacks designed to bring pressure on foreign governments. 
That is the position today. The suggestion is made that it is quite likely we will see more terrorism and subversive activities in Australia. This has become more obvious in Canberra where there have been attacks on embassy staff. It is the responsibility of the Federal Government to see that a realistic approach is taken to the problems that exist today to ensure that Australia is protected. Of course, the necessity for the formation of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has gathered strength. During World War II, security, surveillance and espionage took a much cruder form, if I may put it that way. These operations were certainly carried out during the last War. Reports broadcast by commercial radio stations indicated the movement of our shipping, including troop ships, in and out of our ports. Wireless sets were used to send messages in morse code and in other ways. Those messages were picked up by agents and carried overseas. Even with the cruder methods that were used in those days, a remarkable amount of information was transmitted from Australia. 
It became obvious after the War in 1949 that an Australian Security Intelligence Organisation should be developed in Australia. Of course, we know that this was brought about by  Mr Chifley,  the then Labor Prime Minister.  Mr Justice  Reed established and organised ASIO. It continued in that form for quite some time. I believe that it was a tremendous effort for those days. But with the new sophistication of life and communications and the ability of people to adopt more sophisticated means of spying and surveillance, ASIO, as then structured, became out of date. In 1974, there was a raid on the ASIO headquarters by the then Attorney-General and another person by the name of Milte. I suppose that this was the worst point of the Organisation 's history. 
Arising from those events, the previous Labor Government- I commend it for doing soinstituted an inquiry into ASIO.  Mr Justice  Hope was asked to look into the situation and to report back to the Parliament. No doubt, many members of Parliament and interested Australians have read the eight reports presented by  Mr Justice  Hope arising from the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. The reports make very interesting reading. I wish to deal with some of the matters that are dealt with in various parts of the reports. Although some parts of the reports have been quoted already in the debate, there are many other interesting matters that could be quoted from them. One of the important aspects is dealt with in the fourth report of the Royal Commission.  Mr Justice  Hope discusses at some length the ASIO situation and describes at some length subversion, sabotage, terrorism, security needs, disinformation, and other matters. In the introduction to the report,  His  Honour mentions that ASIO has been Australia's internal security service since it was set up in 1949. It is required by statute to carry out certain intelligence and advisory functions for the protection of the Commonwealth from acts of espionage, sabotage and subversion. The introduction to the fourth report quotes what  Mr Chifley  said in 1949. He said: 
A great increase in Australian security tasks and responsibilities has made it necessary to re-establish a separate security service. 
This is what  Mr Chifley  had to say at the time he announced the establishment of the Organization. 
In regard to the scope of the report he stated: 
The essential part of my terms of reference is: 'in the light of past experience, and having regard to the security of Australia as a nation, the rights and responsibilities of individual persons and future as well as present needs, to make recommendations on the intelligence and security services which the nation should have available to it and on the way in which the relevant organisations can most efficiently and effectively serve the interests of the Australian people and Government . . .' 
From that point he commenced his mammoth task. It is of interest to read some of the matters he investigated and some of the information that he imparts in this report. In the report he speaks of disinformation and deceptive information. Although other people have read various parts of the report, I think it is of importance that other aspects of the report be cited and made known in order to give to the people of Australia an understanding of the necessity for developing ASIO. After all, that is the prime objective of this legislation. In regard to disinformation His Honour said: 
Disinformation' is the anglicisation of a Russian word  'Dezinformatsiya',  first used in the Soviet Union in the nineteen twenties. It is false, incomplete or misleading information passed with these aims: 
to influence the political decisions of other governments; 
to reduce the effectiveness of inimical governments, parties, organisations or individuals; 
to create a favourable climate in which to execute specific policies or to counteract an unfavourable climate or events. 
I would think that if one considered the information that is put out these days in various quarters, one must agree that a lot of it must be classified as disinformation to influence the political decisions of other governments. I would suggest that 'other governments', in the light of what we are discussing tonight, means our own Australian Government. Thereby the necessity for a powerful organisation that can protect Australia's security and the Australian people can be seen.  Mr Justice  Hope spoke of subversion in his report and stated: 
Subversion is difficult to define but is nonetheless a very real, and maybe a very dangerous form of activity. In paragraph 35 I described rather than defined it as an activity whose purpose is, directly or ultimately, the overthrowing of the constitutional government, and in the meantime the weakening or undermining of it. 'Overthrowing the government' does not, of course, refer to the ousting by constitutional methods of the political party in power for the time being but the overthrow by unconstitutional methods of the established constitutional government or system of government. 
I would suggest that there is considerable food for thought there. As I have said, Australia is no longer in a backwater. It must now consider itself in the forefront of terrorism. It is a part of the world where daily we see violent acts. Further on he discusses terrorism. He stated: 
As with subversion, terrorism is difficult to define precisely. The act or threat of force designed to terrorise to achieve political ends needs including in any definition of terrorism. One description defines these elements in this way: the threat of violence, individual acts of violence, or a campaign of violence designed primarily to instil fear- to terrorise . . . Terrorism is violence for effect, not only, and sometimes not at all, for the effect on the actual victims of the terrorists. In fact, the victim may be totally unrelated to the terrorists ' cause. ' 
Finally I refer to what  Mr Justice  Hope said in regard to Australia's security intelligence needs. He said: 
I find, therefore, that Australia needs a security intelligence organisation like ASIO. The proper fields for investigation by ASIO should, however, be more clearly defined than in the present ASIO Act. 
There he is describing the old Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act that was introduced by the Chifley Government in 1949. He saw the necessity for the upgrading of the Act. In fact, we are discussing more than an upgrading of the ASIO Act; actually, a completely new Act is being brought in. Referring to the fields to be covered by ASIO, he said: 
They should include: Espionage. 
Active measures'. 
Subversion. 
Sabotage. 
Terrorism (politically motivated violence). Domestic activity related to violence and subversion abroad. 
Much has been said regarding this legislation. It is quite true that most speakers before me have gone into the details of the Bill. A lot of honourable senators have indicated their strong support for it, others have indicated that they have some concerns. Might I suggest to the people who do show some concern, particularly about human rights, that in looking at  Mr Justice  Hope 's report and looking at the legislation that has been introduced one does find some variation. But after looking at and studying the variations between the report and the legislation I would suggest that the variations which have been introduced- there are not too many- are not tremendous. Where the old Act has been widened it has been improved. 
I support the Bill and believe that quite a lot more could be said on this matter. I have dealt mainly with the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill but perhaps I could refer briefly to the other legislation, the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill and the Telecommunications Amendment Bill. They give real teeth to the authorities to be able to track down criminals and agents acting against Australia. We full well know that it is not the small crooks, the small spies, who are involved in these issues; it is people with immense finances and resources available to them. Only by upgrading our methods of detection can we be aware of these people, trace them, catch them and prove their guilt. Having in mind the safeguards that have been proposed, surely there is no one in Australia who does not see that Australia has to be protected, that authorities should have the right to use means of intercepting telephone calls and to use bugging devices, et cetera, to protect Australia. Surely this is something that all persons should support. I support the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Douglas  McClelland) adjourned. 
I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment: When is the Kakadu National Park in the Northern Territory to be gazetted? Are the pastoral leases of Goodparla and Gimbat stations to be included in the national park and if so, by what authority? Has there been adequate consultation between the Federal Government and the Northern Territory Government in regard to these proposed acquisitions? Is it the intention to include other nearby areas in the Kakadu National Park? 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
1 ) What does each State or Territory estimate its present housing requirements to be. 
What is the present waiting time for a house from a housing authority in each State or Territory. 
Has any State or Territory a surplus of houses already constructed; if so, how many houses are surplus in each State or Territory. 
Can the Minister representing the Treasurer advise the Senate whether there is any arrangement by the Australian Government for Australian companies investing overseas to take out private insurance for the protection of their investment? Such protection has been available in the United States since Congress created the Overseas Private Insurance Corporation for investors and contractors. 
I am always hearing such noise in the background. The honourable senator speaks whether he is on his feet or sitting down. Let me read the decision of  Mr Justice  Toohey which was handed down in Alice Springs at 2.30 p.m. It reads: l:That theCLC - 
That is, the Central Land Council- has withdrawn its claim to the northern area of vacant Crown land i.e., the land to the north of Lake Amadeus. 2: The CLC has agreed that the Yulara Village site is alienated land and therefore this part of the claim has been withdrawn. 3: The Commissioner has ruled that the National Park is alienated land and therefore not within his jurisdiction. 4: He has also ruled that the south western comer of the vacant Crown land i.e. the sedimentaries immediately adjoining the National Park is unalienated land and therefore is within his jurisdiction. 
It is likely that the claim will continue. It is a pity that the Labor Party, when it presents a motion such as this, does not get its facts straight. It comes forward with what I suggest is a lot of rubbish. The motion it moved today is a non-event. It is no race because every claim contained in the motion has been disproved. Quite a lot more can be said on this matter. 
As I have only two or three minutes left to me just briefly put the Northern Territory viewpoint to members of the Senate who insist on bringing forward motions relating to Aboriginals which are wasteful of time, expensive and only succeed in raising the tempo of debate. The people of the Northern Territory have one future. I have said before that their future is coexistance, that is the ability to live alongside each other. I assure honourable senators in this chamber and the people of Australia that this is what the people of the Northern Territory are endeavouring to do. But it is very difficult when we have people in other parts of Australia who use their positions in various ways to make false assertions and who do their utmost to try to put heat into the system. 
I suggest that if they wish to help the Aboriginal people and the people of the Northern Territory they do other things, rather than introduce ridiculous motions. This motion is not a genuine move. It is trying to white ant the policies of the Government and what the people of the Northern Territory are trying to do. I suggest that if these people have the time and the patience they should go and see Cyril Rioli, the  Chairman  of the Tiwi Land Council. They should see Galarrwuy Yunupingu, the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council and Wenten Rubuntja, the  Chairman  of the Central Land Council. They should take the time to sit down with these people. They will say exactly what I have been saying today and that is: Please leave them in peace and let them get on with the work that they are endeavouring to do. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, or perhaps to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I refer to the recent report that red mud was entering the lagoon at Jabiru, the Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd town in the Northern Territory and polluting that lagoon to quite a degree. Is the Government satisfied, now that the matter has been inquired into, that the situation was greatly exaggerated and was, in fact, the result of a heavy monsoonal storm washing clay into a drain a mere two feet wide and into flood waters in the area? Was this not a move to embarrass and hinder development rather than a genuine complaint? 
Today, under Standing Orders,  Senator Cavanagh,  supported by  Senator Gietzelt  and  Senator Keeffe  introduced a matter of urgency into the Senate. That motion condemns the Government for its failure to reply and to counter the false and self-interested campaign of the mining industry, and so on. It is a little difficult then to interpret what the motion actually means. It criticises the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney),  the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory and those responsible for Aboriginal affairs in the Northern Territory for their handling of the discussions that took place in Darwin a little while ago. The language that has been used today has been very extravagant and very emotional. It has been suggested that some actions have been scurrilous. Suggestions have been made that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has acted coercively. As I said, emotional language has been used and I believe that this debate has been detrimental to the Aboriginal people of Australia. 
I regret that we have to debate such a motion in this place. But the fact is that the motion has been moved and charges have been made. Therefore, honourable senators on this side of the chamber have to refute them. I believe that most people in Australia, other than honourable senators opposite, applaud what  Senator Chaney  has done since becoming Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. No suggestion that he has acted coer.cively can be substantiated. As honourable senators opposite said, one needs to get the facts right. I suggest that the motion introduced today is erroneous. I should like to refer to the  Laurie Oakes Report  of 4 April 1979. Of course, most honourable senators read this report which comes out regularly in this place. Laurie Oakes is a critic and he reviews various things. No one can say that he supports the Government or otherwise. I refer in particular to an article headed Powers that Be- Chaney answers the land rights critics: make the system work'. The first paragraph reads: 
In early March, when the Australian Mining Industry Council produced its discussion paper attacking Federal and South Australian Aboriginal land rights legislation, the Federal Department of Aboriginal Affairs prepared a draft response to be issued in the Minister's name. Before approving its release, the Minister,  Senator Fred  Chaney, wrote in an extra paragraph. It said: 'Mining is important to Australia, but it is important to give some consideration to the Aboriginal people who have been pushed around for so long.' It was a significant addition in view of the recent claims that  Senator Chaney  and the Federal Government are planning to water down the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. 
This matter was referred to early in the debate. There is absolutely no suggestion that this represents a watering down. Naturally adjustments have to be made to a very comprehensive and important piece of legislation such as the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act to ensure that it works in the way in which the Government wishes it to work. We know full well from practice and from the way that the legislation has been applied that the Government is honouring the Aboriginal land rights legislation. The Opposition has criticised the Minister, saying that he has done nothing about this matter. This is absolutely ridiculous. In Canberra on 14 March, the day after the discussion paper came out, the Minister publicly stated his and the Government's feelings on the matter. 
I refer now to further negotiations that took place in the Northern Territory some four weeks ago. I was with the Minister at the time. Time does not permit me to discuss fully the Press statement that was released on the matter. The Minister has had it incorporated in  Hansard.  I suggest that the people interested in this subject should read the Press statement in  Hansard.  It makes the situation clear. It refers to negotiations between the Minister,  Senator Fred  Chaney, the Chief Minister for the Northern Territory, Paul Everingham, and three land council chairmen. Two of those land council chairmen are close friends of mine. The third I would say is a friend. I was happy recently to lunch with Galarrwuy Yunupingu. I will tell the Senate some other day about what he had to say. One of his fears is the intrusion into Aboriginal affairs of certain people. If they wish to assist Aboriginal people they should keep at arm's length in regard to many of these matters. 
The land rights Bill introduced by the Labor Government contained absolutely no provision for negotiation and consultation between the Aboriginal people and Ranger Uranium Mines. This seems rather surprising. 
It is amazing. With all the charges that the Labor Party has made it is amazing that in its Bill it did not give the Aboriginal people the right to consult with Ranger Mines at Jabiru. 
That is extraordinary.  Senator Cavanagh,  who is trying to interject, refers to moral responsibility. If the honourable senator had a moral responsibility, why did he not try to protect the Aboriginal people in the days when his party was responsible for Aboriginal affairs? 
I will now answer one or two points concerning the Aboriginal Land Commissioner. The Commissioner has heard many Aboriginal land rights cases. I think I am correct in saying that all the recommendations that have been made to government by  Mr Justice  Toohey, the Aboriginal Land Commissioner, have been agreed to by the Federal Government. It is a lie to suggest that some coercion is connected with the claims that have been made. I refer now to the situation concerning Ayers Rock. I suggest that there is a tremendous misunderstanding of that situation. Let me quickly draw attention to the fact that there is no parallel between the situation concerning the Kakadu National Park and that concerning Ayers Rock. Kakadu National Park is Aboriginal land; it belongs to the Aboriginal people. It is theirs for eternity. They have leased it for use as a national park. The situation at Ayers Rock is completely different. The land was not formerly Aboriginal land but it is now. It was a reserve for quite a while. The Central Land Council made a claim on behalf of the Aboriginal people but it has been withdrawn because it involved nothing more than a point of law. It is not a matter of opposition by the Federal Government or the Northern Territory Government. It is a question of the law as it applies to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. The application by the Central Land Council was withdrawn because the land is not unalienated. Under the Aboriginal lands legislation, all Aboriginal land was passed to the Aboriginal people. This amounted to many hundreds of thousands of square miles in the Northern Territory. It was open to the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory to make a claim on Crown land outside Aboriginal reserves that was unalienated, that is, that was not held by any type of lease. The situation in the Northern Territory now is that land on Aboriginal reserves automatically belongs to the Aboriginal people. The Aboriginals are getting title to the land. There is no argument about that. The Aboriginals can make application for unalienated land. But it has been determined, as a point of law, that Ayers Rock is alienated land. So the claim cannot be accepted. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The Ayers Rock or Uluru National Park Aboriginal land claim, which includes surrounding areas, came before the Northern Territory Land Commissioner yesterday in Alice Springs. Since then there appears to have been considerable confusion as to the exact position, with misinformation and misunderstanding adding to the situation. Is the Minister in a position to make a statement to the Senate on the matter? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications is along the lines of that asked earlier by  Senator Maunsell.  I preface it by saying that it has been reported in the media that the Packer Channel 9 agreement now effectively beats the bush' and that, other than for a small percentage of outback people, 96 per cent of citizens will view the cricket series through arrangements made by the Packer group with commercial television stations. Commercial television has not reached as far into many areas of the outback as has the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and in the case of the Darwin commercial television station- despite the fact that agreement has been reached with the Packer group- the situation is more complicated because the microwave link is owned by Telecom Australia and leased to the ABC. I ask: Having in mind that the people of the outback are more often than not deprived of communication facilities that more populous areas take for granted, will the Minister take up the matter on behalf of outback people to ensure that they too can participate in the viewing of this national sport? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Education. As the Federal Government's intention to transfer the Department of Education in the Northern Territory to the Northern Territory Government on 1 July this year will mark the last of the major responsibilities to be transferred under the transfer of powers arrangements, in the matter of the future supply of teachers for the new Northern Territory education system has agreement been reached as to whether teachers will continue to be supplied by the Commonwealth Teaching Service or will it be the responsibility of the Northern Territory Government? In the event that the Commonwealth Teaching Service will continue to supply teachers for the Northern Territory, will this be a permanent arrangement or one that will be reviewed at some time in the future? What are the attitudes of the parties concerned in the transfer of the education services to the question of the supply of teachers for the future? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
Does the Government intend to provide a communications satellite Tor the Australian continent,either by purchase or lease: if so. what will the benefits be Tor the Australian community and in particular Tor people living in the outback and in such isolated areas as homesteads, mining centres, and Aboriginal settlements. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. The national eradication campaign against bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis is aimed at Australia's being tuberculosis and brucellosis free by 1984 so as to meet with United States requirements to cover export meat. The three cattle producing organisations in the Northern Territory have indicated their concern that, because of several factors, this timetable, despite the efforts of the pastoral industry, may not be achieved. Having in mind that encouragement was given to the industry for carrying out capital improvements such as fencing et cetera, prior to the Coombs report on expenditure policies to the Labor Government in 1 973, 1 ask: Can the Minister indicate what actions are being planned by State and Federal authorities to ensure that the eradication of these two diseases is carried out within a reasonable period? 
I  direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. The Melbourne  Age  today reports that the  President  of the Returned Services League in Papua New Guinea claims that the Australian Government has not paid some 3,000 war service pensions which had been promised at the end of the Second World War. The Department of Veterans' Affairs has refuted the claim, indicating that last year a government team to Papua New Guinea found that only a small number of eligible persons were not receiving pensions. In the light of this claim, which would concern many Australians, will the Minister arrange for a statement to be presented to the Senate giving a full account of the situation? 
I do not think that the question confronting the Senate is the power of the Government to act in certain ways including the power to gag a debate such as this one. It is very unfair for  Senator Cavanagh  to say that on the Opposition side people wish to contribute and on this side people perhaps are disinterested. That is far from the fact. The way I see the situation is this - 
The honourable senator has had his say. 
I am just saying,  Mr Deputy President,  that there are many honourable senators who wish to discuss these various - 
That is not the question,  Senator. The  question concerns the practice of the Senate. If when papers are presented we debate each one as it comes forward, the business of the Senate will be disrupted. My viewand I am sure that it is shared by all honourable senators on the Government side- is that I wish to see the Senate discuss matters such as the paper that is before us. I make a point on our recent discussion on fuel emissions control and related matters. I understand that all parties agreed to the adjournment of the debate. So, it should come forward again for debate. In the discussion on fuel emissions control, various honourable senators spoke by leave. Because of the understanding that the debate would be resumed at a later date, many people, including myself, did not participate at that time. I would suggest that the same situation applies tonight. The usual procedure in the Senate when a paper or report is introduced is to adjourn the debate to a future sitting. This gives honourable senators time to look at the paper or report. I would suggest that at some stage in the near future this paper should be debated. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that departmental officers have now completed the review which was initiated by government following the statement by the Australian National Line that the  Darwin Trader,  which operates from the eastern States to Darwin, was to be removed from the route? If this is so, is the Minister in a position to indicate the action the Federal Government intends to take to ensure that there will be a continuity of service to Darwin? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of a board of inquiry report initiated by the Northern Territory Government and entitled Feral Animals in the Northern Territory? The board of inquiry was chaired by  Dr G.  A. Letts, C.B.E. The report gives an up-to-date, detailed picture of feral animals and associated problems in the north. It calls for major changes in thinking and states that strong positive action is needed to enable our environmental heritage to survive and the reasonable potential for economic production in the north to be realised. 
I wish to speak briefly tonight on one or two matters, but principally on the way in which I see the problems of our Aboriginal people. First, I should like to describe briefly to the Senate a very nice ceremony that I attended in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly last Thursday when a delegation from both Houses of the Federal Parliament presented a mace to that body. I was very proud to be one of those who were involved in the delegation, which was led by our  President, Sir Condor  Laucke, and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, SirBilly Snedden. The mace, which had been prepared following a motion of authorisation some two years earlier by both Houses of Parliament , and the subsequent expression of goodwill by  Her  Majesty the Queen, was presented in a particularly special ceremony. On very few occasions since Federation has a mace been presented to a Parliament within Australia. The Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has been most fortunate in that, within a year of the transfer of powers from the Federal Government, the Queen and the Federal Government have seen fit to make such a presentation. The mace is steeped far into the history of the Westminster system in the Commonwealth. Having been the first  Speaker  of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly I was most proud to be a part of that delegation. I commend the delegation and Federal Government for the thoughts behind the presentation, the mace used to be a warlike instrument. I would not think that the mace that has been presented will be used for the purposes for which maces have been used over the centuries. The gold work in the various decorations on the mace is such that it would not stand being used as a weapon. The visit of the delegation to the Northern Territory should be noted. 
As I have said on many occasions in the Senate, the Northern Territory is going through a very important phase in its development and history. For many years it endeavoured to have a voice in its own affairs. During the last few years it has quickly achieved this. On 1 July the functions of the Department of Education relating to the Northern Territory, which have been the responsibility of  Senator Carrick,  are to be transferred to the Northern Territory. This is one of the last State-like responsibilities to be transferred to the Northern Territory. A statement was put out today by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that the Supreme Court system is also to be transferred. I foresee that following the settling down period, which is going remarkably well, the Northern Territory eventually will become a State. 
There are one or two other matters with which I wish to deal. The first relates to Aboriginal legal aid and is minor compared with the next matter that I wish to raise. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  today answered a query that I put to him on 5 April. I asked: 
Has the Government been reviewing the role of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service; if so: (a) are revised guidelines to bc set down; and (b) will they be made available to the Senate. 
The Minister replied: 
Yes. A charter for the Aboriginal Legal Aid Services has been under consideration for some time. In addition, the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, at my request, is inquiring into Aboriginal access to legal aid. I am also arranging a review of the operations of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service in New South Wales. 
I shall consider when new guidelines are desirable in the light of the review; and 
if so,  I will  inform  the Senate. 
I believe that there should be an Aboriginal legal aid system. I have no doubt that the majority of people agree with me. In the few years since the system's inception there have been problems. I believe that there have been problems because there are no guidelines. It is foolhardy to set up any organisation without guidelines. I believe that the problems that have been experienced by the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service in New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, the Northern Territory or other places, and which have been voiced on both sides of this Senate, have arisen because, although such aid has been funded, no guidelines have been set down as to the way money will be expended and the way legal aid will be given to Aboriginal people. 
Despite the problems that have been experienced because of the lack of guidelines on Aboriginal legal aid, Aboriginal people in the various States and the Northern Territory have endeavoured to grapple with the problem. They have had extreme difficulties. In any case where money is provided without guidelines or control people do not appreciate that they have responsibilities. Also, people move in on such organisations to endeavour to use those funds to bring about different results from the purpose of the funding. I do not think I have to go on at any length to suggest to the Minister that regardless of what reports come in and what opinions may be expressed, if only for the benefit and assistance of the Aboriginal people, he must establish guidelines. When we look at the expenditure of funds for Aboriginal legal aid, we see some most unusual situations. We see two Aboriginal people- two groups perhaps- at odds with each other. One is granted aid and the other is not. That is just an instance. 
I now turn to the main subject on which I wish to speak tonight. I will not speak on the matter for too long. I was interested to read the statement that was issued on 18 May regarding the Australian Aboriginal Affairs Council meeting in Adelaide. The meeting was attended by Commonwealth and State Ministers concerned with Aboriginal affairs. They emphasised the need for improved training, employment, housing and funding for Aboriginal people. The people who attended this meeting- including the Federal Minister, whom we all know has very genuine feelings towards Aboriginal people, and all the State Ministers concerned, whom I would say are no less sincere in their actions towards the Aboriginal people- sat down and endeavoured to work out what could be done in the future for the Aboriginal people. It is worth quoting the following parts from the statement: 
The Ministers supported the concept of self-management for Aboriginal people. However, the Ministers agreed that there was a gap between the ideal of self-management and its practical application. 
The statement went on to say: 
This gap required narrowing through improved training of Aboriginal people, improved community support systems and adequate funding to enable programs to be implemented. Ministers called on the Commonwealth Government to reduce the gap and so encourage Aboriginal people to become self-reliant. 
The brief talk that I am about to give will relate to what is meant by self-reliant, and all those other words that we have heard over the years such as 'assimilation', 'self-determination', and so on.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  you too, come from the Northern Territory.  Senator Cavanagh,  who is in the chamber, at one stage was Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. There are many people who are interested in Aboriginal matters and who wonder where we are going with Aboriginal liaison and what we are doing for Aborigines. 
I go back several years to when it was decided that Australia had responsibilities for Aboriginal people. At that time the Aboriginal race was in dire straits. The Aboriginal race was being whittled by neglect and illness. Aboriginals did not have the ability or the facilities to withstand the diseases with which they came in contact. Not only was there tuberculosis; there was tremendous infant mortality and so on. I can only liken the attitude of the Government of those days as being that of a kindly rich uncle. He was a paternal type of person who wanted to do something but he did not really understand what the game was all about. So he decided that the Aboriginal people would be gathered together. He saw the Aboriginal people as a black race and because they were black they had a commonality. His attitude was that they should all be brought together so that they could be assisted. The rich uncle, who had this view of aboriginality in relation to a group of black people, did not know better. 
I suggest that the honourable senator listen. To an Aboriginal, aboriginality does not mean that a person is black. An Aboriginal will not say: 'I am a black man; I am an Aboriginal'. He will say: 'I am a Wailbri' or 'I am a pitjatjantjara' or 'I am an Arunta '. He does so because he is a person who belongs to a specific group of people. This is where the mistake was made in the early days of the assimilation of Aboriginals. Aboriginals did not appreciate the rich uncle's point of view. 
Later I would like to hear  Senator Cavanagh  's remarks. What happened was that they were herded together and they did not understand what the game was all about. 
As the honourable senator said, this was not assimilation. The Aborigines were herded together and this was a situation beyond their experience. There was no concept of such a thing in Aboriginal law. This was the beginning of many of the problems which are being experienced today. We have gone on from assimilation, the crowding together of people - 
It was regarded as assimilation in those days. Because of lack of knowledge it was believed that eventually, through the grouping of these people, there would be an intermingling of blood and the Aboriginal people would disappear over the decades. However, that has not happened. The Aboriginal people are a proud race, and will always remain so. Groups of tribal people cannot live together. It is against their law. Tribes have to live within the boundaries of their own land. They were forced into these particular areas in the belief that it was for their own good, for their education and health. This did not provide the answer that the Government and the Australian people were looking for but a very strong paternal attitude towards the Aboriginal people developed. 
Because Aboriginals were brought into this situation they had to forgo their own law. They became just a group of people crowded into settlements at the will of the Government. The Government did a good job. It improved Aboriginal health and it provided education for Aboriginal children. The settlements were very tidy and there was employment. On the surface it appeared that the Aboriginal people were being well looked after and were in good spirits. But, of course, this was not the case. Aboriginal law goes much deeper than some people appreciate. 
Ultimately the time arrived when it was decided that Aboriginal people should be given self-determination. I am certainly not a racist and I am certainly not a knocker but if anyone thinks that the concept that is now being practised in regard to self-determination for Aboriginals is working, I would say that they are out of touch with reality. I will tell the Senate what has happened. There was a time when the Government did everything for the Aboriginal people although they had to intermingle, which was against their law. They were not trained although they were given jobs such as looking after settlements and so on. Then suddenly the Government, the Australian people, decided that the Aboriginal people must be given selfdetermination; that they must be given the right to decide what they want to do and where they want to go. But the Aboriginal people had no experience or training to enable them to work out where they were going in our rather sophisticated society. They were in a void and they were unable to cope with the situation. 
It was at about this time that the Commonwealth public servants who had previously attended to their affairs were withdrawn from the Aboriginal settlements and the formation of elected Aboriginal Councils was encouraged. This was something foreign to Aboriginal concepts. It is not the way that Aboriginal law works. However, the Aboriginals were encouraged to develop the council situation. The people on whom they had leaned for years were withdrawn, and suddenly they were left on their own. It was a pitiful situation and it embraced many aspects. With the withdrawal of the people on whom they were so reliant there was a void. At this time the Aboriginals were establishing cooperatives. They were encouraged to enter into such businesses. But most of them did not have the ability for self-management that enabled them to conduct their affairs in a businesslike manner. One or two of them had this ability, but I am talking generally. Because they did not have the support of the officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs whose services were withdrawn- I am not attacking them; I am just making a factual statement- the Aboriginals had a tendency to create massive supermarkets. It was not uncommon for the businesses they developed then to have a turnover of over $ 1 m a year. Some of them still do. That is big business in anybody's language for a town or suburb, let alone an Aboriginal settlement. 
Some of the people who work for the Aboriginals in this area are dedicated, honest people but I do not label them all as such. These people assist the Aboriginals to the best of their ability to run these enterprises in a businesslike manner, but there is also an element of failure and this element is far too prevalent in the Northern Territory. It is not unusual to hear of an Aboriginal enterprise in the Northern Territory that has gone to the wall. When I say 'gone to the wall' I mean that suddenly it is found that one of these supermarkets or co-operatives is $ 100,000 out of pocket, that suddenly there is no finance in the business, that suddenly there are no goods in the store, and that suddenly there is an influx of creditors looking for payment. I say that the reason for this is the withdrawal of the people who gave assistance to the Aboriginals. 
The Aboriginals have little knowledge of the sophisticated world of business enterprise. We have difficulty in understanding all the aspects of the sophisticated life that we lead today, so we must sympathise with the Aboriginals who were thrust into this situation and who had to find people to fill the void which had been created by the withdrawal of the people who had assisted them. Perhaps they could be described as the paternal types, but they were the ones on whom the Aboriginals relied. As I have said before, a majority of the businesses are in good condition because of the honesty and dedication of the Europeans who work with the Aboriginal people, but there are far too many people who use the Aboriginals with whom they live to their own advantage. I have seen far too many businesses in the Northern Territory fail to wish to see this system continued. 
There are alternatives,  Senator Cavanagh.  I am coming to them. I do not think that anyone should stand up and be critical of a system- some people would describe it as endeavouring to destroy a system- without offering a constructive alternative. I would suggest to the Government that it should introduce paternalism- to me that is not a nasty word- to some degree. I believe in paternalism because I am the head of a family. I assist and direct my children towards their future. There is nothing to worry about in relation to paternalism.  (Quorum formed).  The Opposition is getting a little edgy about what I call paternalism. All I am saying is that one practises paternalism within one's family and there is no reason why some kindness should not be shown to the Aboriginal people. If paternalism is the word for that, let us start to introduce some paternalism to help the Aboriginal people. 

 Senator Cavanagh has asked me what I would do to prevent the situation arising in which there is a collapse of an Aboriginal enterprise. In the first place I would suggest that there must be an understanding between the Aboriginal people, the councils of a particular area and government- the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and his Department- of the need for liaison and communication. I would suggest that people should be employed to assist the Aboriginals. There should be a calling for applications from the people who are offering their services and those applications should be vetted to ensure that the applicants have sufficient knowledge of financial and business aspects to enable them to do these things. A proving situation should exist between the Aboriginal councils and government whereby applicants will be vetted before they are appointed. If the situation arises that their books do not balance they should be investigated and removed if necessary. 
I have just discussed that situation. The present system is not working because literally hundreds of thousands of dollars are going down the drain. I am suggesting that an advisory organisation- not necessarily the Department of Aboriginal Affairs- should be formed to carry out the vetting, appointing and close scrutiny for the Aboriginals. By 'close scrutiny' I mean a regular inspection of the books to ensure that the kind of situation to which I have referred does not arise. 
Self-determination is not wrong but it is not working under the present system. Too much responsibility is being placed upon the Aboriginal people and they are being touched in many ways because they do not have the necessary experience.  Senator Cavanagh,  let us go back to the days when you were Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Robertson)-  Order! I ask the honourable senator to address his remarks to the Chair. 
When  Senator Cavanagh  was Minister for Aboriginal Affairs did he initiate any training program to enable the Aboriginals to carry out the responsibility that has been thrust upon them by selfdetermination? If we wish self-determination to be successful then we have to look much more closely at the situation. I believe that training concepts have to be brought in and that a complete review of the whole situation is needed, for the good of the Aboriginal people and for the good of the taxpayers of Australia. 
I  present the following petition from 191 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: That in order to: - facilitate the development of the North of Australia - provide an all-weather rapid land transport system from north to south and vice versa - facilitate better defence of Northern Australia - provide improved transport for primary and mining products to southern markets - boost tourism 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Urge that the Federal Government give favourable consideration to proceeding forthwith with the completion of the contruction of the North/South railway from Alice Springs to Darwin as a matter of priority. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister: In view of the concern being expressed at the present time by Public Service unions about legislation presently before the Parliament, can the Minister give the Senate an explanation of how the Bill will operate and of the grounds on which employees will be retired? 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1979: 
Has the Government been reviewing the role of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service; if so; (a) are revised guidelines to be set down; and (b) will they be made available to the Senate. 
I present the following petition from 234 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That in order to: - facilitate the development of the North of Australia - provide an all-weather rapid land transport system from north to south and vice versa - facilitate better defence of Northern Australia - provide improved transport for primary and mining products to southern markets - boost tourism 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Urge that the Federal Government give favourable consideration to proceeding forthwith with the completion of the construction of the North/South railway from Alice Springs to Darwin as a matter of priority. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. In the last few years the present Darwin airport terminal has come under considerable pressure through being overcrowded and outmoded. Also, the customs facilities are unable to cope properly with the increasing numbers of overseas visitors. Having in mind that civil authorities urgently require the updating of the Darwin airport terminal, what action does the Government intend to take to alleviate the somewhat chaotic situation that is now being experienced? 
I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment a question relating to the Landsat satellite. When will the new Australian Landsat project be operational? How will contact be maintained with those people and organisations wishing to use Landsat information and facilities? What will be the ultimate cost of the project? Is it envisaged that, through commercial use, there will be some recovery of costs? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Patrol Boat Base at Cairns, Queensland. 
-Then I will conclude now and rise later. There are many things that I wish to present on this aspect. 
I do not mind staying here all night to discuss matters such as are before us. I support  Senator Sim.  I wish now merely to thank the officers of the various departments who have been extremely patient in attending here for the last two day. The debate has been drawn out considerably and I extend to them my regret that they have been delayed. 
Much has been said tonight about two statements put out by the honourable Peter Nixon, the Minister for Transport, on 24 May. I think that in fairness to him 1 should say that parts of them have been taken out of context. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  these two statements of 24 May. 
I said that they have been issued by the honourable Peter Nixon, the Minister for Transport. These are the statements relating to the Stuart Highway. Many honourable senators have referred to sections of them tonight. 

 - Mr Chairman, I will leave it to your judgment as to whether or not they are accurate. 
I present the following  petition from 178 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That in order to: - facilitate the development of the North of Australia; - provide an all-weather rapid land transport system from north to south and vice-versa; - facilitate better defence of Northern Australia; - provide improved transport for primary and mining products to southern markets; - boost tourism 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Urge that the Federal Government give favourable consideration to proceeding forthwith with the completion of the construction of the north-south railway from Alice Springs to Darwin as a matter of priority. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
As a member of Estimates Committee C I must say that in the hearings which took place on Friday, 4 May, we saw the departments of Social Security, Finance, Health, Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and Veterans' Affairs come forward with very complete accounting of their estimates. I believe that the information that was given to the Committee by the officers from those departments was extremely good. Since the previous occasion that the Committee met officers from the various departments many matters have been cleared up and on that day, therefore, there was a very free flow of information which was beneficial to all. Most of the financial and technical matters have been cleared up extremely well. Those who wish to get information about the estimates of those departments will find the answers and the information in the  Hansard  record of the proceedings of Estimates Committee C on Friday, 4 May. 
On the previous occasion there was one item which gave me concern, although on 4 May matters had improved tremendously. I refer to the staffing of the Department of Social Security. On the previous occasion I and other members of the Committee had indicated, through questions, our concern that the Department of Social Security appeared to be understaffed and under considerable pressure. Honourable senators will remember that at that time there was considerable comment about the over-expenditure of money on welfare. When we looked at the problem it appeared to be due to the lack of staff which put the Department under pressure. On 4 May we went into this matter immediately the Committee met. I asked what had taken place since the last Estimates committee hearing.  Mr Corrigan  replied: 
At 30 June 1978, the previous financial year, our total operative staff was 9,99 1 . As I indicated previously, our ceiling has been lifted to 1 1,394. We have been able to allocate staff numbers to all our key areas. We are now carrying out all the essential functions for which the Department is responsible. This includes all methods of verifying payments and checking eligibility. With the type of administration we have we will probably never achieve perfection in our work. It is something we will continually aim at but we are certainly much better off than we were 1 2 months ago. 
One realises that a department which has such a large staff and so many complexities and responsibilities throughout Australia will never be in the perfect situation. But when honourable senators and the people of Australia hear the statement I have just quoted they will be assured that matters are under control. When I asked  Mr Corrigan  about the discussions which I knew were taking place with the Public Service Board, he said: 
The joint review with the Public Service Board of the Department's operations highlighted some of the troubles we were having. 
Indeed, they should have done. He continued: 
The Board subsequently has given us both positions and improved classifications of positions to deal with the situation. 
I then asked: 
Has this increase covered the senior positions which needed establishing? 

 Mr Corrigan replied: 
Yes, particularly in the middle management ranges. 
I think this must assure many people that in this area the Department of Social Security has done a considerable amount and has overcome many of its problems. I go on to a further question which I asked of the officers, the answer to which has been returned to me. It is on page 5 of the document containing answers to questions from Estimates Committee C. I was interested in the number of staff located in regional offices. The Department has indicated that the number of staff located in the regional offices has increased significantly this financial year for two reasons: A general increase in staffing levels to enable existing officers to cope with increasing workloads, and the opening of new offices and the decentralisation of functions to existing offices. The information goes on to say that a following table shows the increase in staff located in regional offices during the period 30 June 1978 to 30 April 1 979. It shows that the increase in staff in regional offices has increased in New South Wales by 1 7.3 per cent, in Victoria by 63.2 per cent, in Queensland by 33.4 per cent, in South Australia by 39.3 per cent, in Western Australia by 68.3 per cent, in Tasmania by 20 per cent and in the Northern Territory by 9.2 per cent. The reason that this matter has been brought up is that over a period members of Parliament have received complaints regarding the staffing situation in offices of the Department of Social Security throughout Australia. 
I commend the Department and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  upon the work that has been done. Not only has an increase in staff taken place but also there has been decentralisation. Staff members have moved out into country centres to overcome problems there. That is good. However, reference was made to the need for more evaluation in a report of a committee which dealt with health. Severe criticism was levelled at the general situation in some Government departments and the need for them to carry out evaluation was emphasised. During previous hearings of the Estimates Committees questions had been asked on the subject, and officers of the various departments had indicated that their aim was indeed to carry out evaluation. 
In the intervening period- I am speaking broadly, but the Departments of Social Security, Health and Immigration and Ethnic Affairs were mentioned- it had become obvious that the need for evaluation had been realised. Indeed, with the growing pressures, the increasing complexities of our way of life in Australia and the various systems that are in operation, the time has come when a continuing process of evaluation must be pursued. The departments have indicated that in some areas of activity evaluation is proceeding. I refer to activities in regard to aged persons and so on. It appears also that at times there has been inadequate staff to enable evaluation to take place. But it has become imperative that the financial affairs of Australia be put in order. That is, of course, the aim of the Government. The demands on the Government for funding are such that departments must not only pursue the continuing evaluation of their own efficiency- a matter about which I am sure heads of departments and other senior officers would be concernedbut also the continuing evaluation of the various projects that are being carried out under their administration. There must be an evaluation to see whether good is resulting from a particular project, or whether it is beset by problems and money is being spent illadvisedly. 
I do not suggest that Parliament should be a kind of Big Brother, but I point out that such large numbers of organisations are at present being funded through various departments that there must be closer scrutiny of the way in which they spend public money. In the first place, the organisations make application to the Government for funding for various purposes. In the hands of some of them- I know that I am speaking of a minority only, and certainly not all organisations- money is ill-spent. It is spent in various ways that were not envisaged when it was granted. 
Therefore, I believe it to be necessary that organisations which are funded by the taxpayers produce financial statements to the various departments to ensure that public money is being spent correctly and that the aims of the organisations are being pursued. I would go even further and suggest that so many organisations are now so heavily funded, that departments should indicate to the Estimates committees whether there has been any gross failure- or a fault has developed- in the way in which those organisations spend public money. Any such failure should be brought to the notice of the Parliament. 
There are very many organisations, and it is not my wish to name any of them or to embarrass them by bringing them to public notice. 
I am just saying that it is up to the Commonwealth departments to oversee the spending of public money, and to ensure that it is spent in accordance with the reasons for which it was granted.- Further, if any gross negligence becomes apparent it should be reported. I have nothing further to say on the matter except that I hope what I have proposed will be carried out. Time is against me in regard to joining in the debate on the matter of refugees. 
As I understand it,  Mr Chairman-  if the honourable senator will stop making so much noise and allow you to hear me- I have only two minutes left. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. Has the Government considered the Neal-Hird report on Northern Territory education? If so, are its recommendations to be implemented? Will the proposed transfer of the Northern Territory section of the Department of Education to the Northern Territory Government on 1 July 1 979 have any effect on the recommendations of the report? 
I present the following petition from 324 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That in order to: - facilitate the development of the North of Australia - provide an all-weather rapid land transport system from north to south and vice versa - facilitate better defence of Northern Australia - provide improved transport for primary and mining products to southern markets - boost tourism 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Urge that the Federal Government give favourable consideration to proceeding forthwith with the completion of the construction of the North/South railway from Alice Springs to Darwin as a matter of priority. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. Mention was made on  AM  this morning that a report from the Department of Science and the Environment indicates that radioactivity levels at Nabarlek uranium mine in the Northern Territory are higher than was previously indicated, and that the health of workers there may be endangered. Can the Minister advise the Senate whether the report is correct? If so, are sufficient safeguards being carried out, and what is the present overall situation? 
I  present the following petition from 295 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: That in order to: - facilitate the development of the North of Australia - provide un all-weather rapid land transport system from north to south and vice versa - facilitate better defence of Northern Australia - provide improved transport for primary and mining products to southern markets - boost tourism 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Urge that the Federal Government give favourable consideration to proceeding forthwith with the completion of the construction of the North/South railway from Alice Springs to Darwin as a matter of priority. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Bearing in mind that aviation fuel is becoming increasingly in short supply and that there are already in the outback instances of fuel not being available to aircraft, what action is being taken by the Government to ensure that Avgas- the lifeblood of reconnaissance and surveillance activities, the Royal Flying Doctor Service, aerial health facilities, and the daily supply of various commodities to isolated communities, including Aboriginal settlements, mining fields, homesteads, contractors, tourist organisations, et cetera- is kept in regular supply for these most necessary outback services and communities? 

 - Senator Mulvihill claimed that the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment will drag the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory before it and give him 'what ho'. 
There is one thing I have always believed in-- 
I take exception to the remark that the Chief Minister is a clown. I ask  Senator Mulvihill  to withdraw that remark, because that is offensive. 
I have adopted a personal rule over the years during which I have been a member of the Senate or a member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I was always prepared, if I made a remark in the Senate or the Legislative Assembly, to make that same remark outside. I do not think that some of the people who have made remarks in the Senate tonight would have the courage or the guts to make those remarks outside. The Chief Minister in the Northern Territory is an honourable person who is doing a fine job in co-operation with the Federal Government. He is being maligned in the Senate. I say that the people who have maligned him have not got the guts or the courage to make their remarks outside. 
Let me refer to the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill. Its purpose is to amend the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975 to facilitate the development of a township at Jabiru which is located in the Kakadu National Park. It is my understanding that the necessity for this legislation stems back to a Federal Act which was passed in 1978 and which endeavoured to give authority for the works to be carried out at Jabiru. I understand that a legal opinion given by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  stated that there was insufficient authority within the Act for work to be carried out at Jabiru. I understand that this legislation corrects that situation. 
Before dealing further with the Bill I would like to talk about one or two general matters. As I have said before, it always amazes me that people single out for criticism uranium development in the Northern Territory. While little mining development has taken place in the Northern Territory, mining scars can be seen in the States from mining which has taken place probably over the last 100 years or more. Yet the people who criticise such things are prepared to single out only one place- Rum Jungle- when in their own backyard, in the Australian States, mining practices over the years have disfigured the country. Let us look at Rum Jungle. 1 make no excuse for the way in which Rum Jungle was mined for uranium some 25 years ago. In those days mining, whether for uranium or any thing else, was not subject to environmental control, nor did people take the interest in their country which they do now. It is quite true that when the Australian Atomic Energy Commission mined uranium some 25 years ago it did not engage in the safeguards and the environmental controls that are engaged in today. 
Many people harp on whether uranium should be developed. This interests me when I think of the uranium mining that has taken place at Rum Jungle and Moline in the Northern Territory. Last Sunday in Darwin I talked to  Mr Joe  Fisher who was the manager of the mine at Moline which contained a rich pocket of uranium. It was one of the first uranium mines in the Territory. This was before all this fuss and bother came about. The mine was in operation some 20 years ago. It is amazing that the 20-odd people who worked in that pitch blend, this rich pocket, are as healthy today as the day on which they started mining in this area. There have to be safeguards but many of the attacks made on the development of uranium have been overdone. Yesterday I asked a question concerning the problem of radioactivity levels at the Narbalek uranium mine indicated in a report from the Department of Science and the Environment. However the information given in  AM  was only half the answer. That is why I asked the question because it gives the complete answer. The most important part of that answer given by  Senator Webster  states: 
I believe that the point of the honourable senator's question is met by the fact that these measures have been incorporated as conditions of the approval to mine, and that they arc being implemented by the company in respect of its operations, which commenced recently. The  honouarble  senator knows, of course, that responsibility Tor ensuring compliance with these conditions rests with the Northern Territory Government. 
That is quite true, too. On that particular matter-- 
Every  Senator, when  he comes into the Chamber, shall take his place, and shall not at any time stand in any of the passages or gangways. 
There is one Government senator who is taking more than one place. He has rectified the position. 
One good thing about points of order and the debates that take place concerning them is that they are recorded in  Hansard  for public information. I refer to the Northern Territory's responsibility. An honourable senator made the remark a little earlier that perhaps the Northern Territory people did not know their responsibilities. In that regard the honourable senator is completely out of touch. If he could see the co-operation taking place now between Northern Territory public servants and their Commonwealth counterparts in the development of the uranium fields, and so on, he would see that these matters which worry him are just a dream, a figment of his imagination, or just plain mischievous. The Commonwealth has entrusted to the Northern Territory regulations concerning the mining, milling and transport of uranium, et cetera. The matter is well in hand. Further to  Senator Webster's  answer to my question in  Hansard  of 4 June, I understand that there is further information relating to this matter. It comes from the supervising scientist, a  Dr Fry.  Whilst the information has not yet been introduced into the Senate, I understand that it is in the hands of the Minister. I hope that when time permits and when the right time comes up he will also bring in this information which I think will refute the charges once and for all. 
I refer to the mischievous charges which continue to be made.  Mr Collins,  M.L.A., the member for Arnhem, is known for his attacks on the industry in that area. I wonder why. I can only say that they are mischievous attacks. I asked a question some weeks ago about his charges that the lagoon at Jabiru- at the Ranger project- was being polluted by the activities of the Peko-EZ company, the Ranger project in that area. Of course, the matter was blown up throughout Australia as if something was terribly wrong. I think  Mr Uren  also joined in the issue. When the situation was looked at one found that a road was being made, there was a gutter some 3 feet wide and during a heavy downpour of rain some muddy water from this 3-foot ditch ran into the lagoon and coloured the water for a few feet into the lagoon. That is what all the fuss was about. The answer indicated that it was a rather mischievous action. 
There have been attacks on, and very derogatory remarks made about, the Chief Minister. One must appreciate that he is having a difficult time. There has been a considerable transfer of power during the last year in which most Statelike responsibilities- about which I have spoken in the Senate- have been passed to him and to his Ministers. A few years ago it was suggested that there should be an inquiry into uranium development and mining. Of course, this was after  Mr Whitlam  and his three Ministers had signed an agreement with the Peko-EZ company for the mining of uranium. Nevertheless, this inquiry was carried out by  Mr Justice  Fox. It was a complete inquiry into the area of the Kakadu National Park and the mining of uranium. While this inquiry into the development and preparation for the orderly control and development of mining of uranium was taking place, there were constitutional changes being planned in the Northern Territory which involved the giving of powers to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. For some reason or other,  Mr Justice  Fox did not at any stage touch on the constitutional changes that were developing side by side with the proposal to mine uranium. 
It is an unusual situation and I can only assume that if the attention of  Mr Justice  Fox had been drawn to the constitutional changes taking place in the Territory, there would have been some reference in the report which came from the inquiry. Perhaps that may have avoided some of the pitfalls and contentious situations that exist today. With the transfer of powers and the development of the National Park, honourable senators can well imagine that many people in the Territory are interested in seeing that they have a say in their own National Park. When the package of uranium Bills came before the House of Representatives and the Senate, the people of the Northern Territory had absolutely no say in relation to these Bills which related to the Kakadu National Park and the development of uranium. 
I can certainly imagine as a Territorian how the people took objection to this situation. Legislation has been passed in the Federal Parliament for the development of this mining town of Jabiru in a particular area of the National Park. It is an area of land that was not in the Aboriginal land claim. It was never passed over to the Aboriginal people. It was included in the National Park and a certain area was leased for the town. There is a great deal of feeling in the Territory- it is a political feeling- about this closed town of some 3,500 people on the Arnhem Highway, lt is not far away from Darwin. It will attract many tourists and there is the feeling that if the town is closed tourism will not be feasible. One expects and hopes that at some time in the future this town will become an ordinary town in the Northern Territory. I do not think that this is too much to ask. 
An ordinary town is a town such as the one in which the honourable senator lives. It is restricted in no way. It belongs to the State in which one lives and the people of that State have a say in the running of it. 
There might be a few guns in the honourable senator's town also. The size of this town will be restricted to three and a half thousand people. I think we will find that, with the development of uranium and the various mines of Pancontinental, Queensland Mines at Nabarlek, and Peko-EZ at Jabiru, that there will be sufficient people including the people who will service the various businesses in the town. This does not include the large number of public servants who will be living in the town. They will be very hard pressed to keep the town's population at the limit of three and a half thousand people.  (Quorum formed).  An Act was passed this year by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly by agreement with the Federal Government which resulted in the setting up of the Jabiru Development Commission. This Commission has the responsibility of running the town. As  Senator Puplick  has indicated I think it is quite true that work in this area has been held up and this is what this legislation corrects. 
It is to ensure that certain works can be carried out in this dry season which is just commencing. I have a list of the works which is quite substantial. The total commitment of expenditure, which may be even higher, is presently $4,7 1 6,000. The works relate to civil roads, drainage, services for a construction camp and caravan park, purchase and refurbishment of a temporary sewerage treatment plant, plant hire for initial access tracks, temporary construction of a 50 man camp, a catering and security contract, another construction camp and so on. It is essential that if Peko- EZ is to get cracking with the Ranger project in the near future this work has to be carried out. This legislation will go a certain way towards achieving this. The people in the Northern Territory believe that this situation requires more than just their being consulted. The consultative provisions agreed to by Parliament last year have not been particularly effective and have not given the people of the Northern Territory much say in these matters. I think that in fairness to the people they should be more than consulted. Proposed new section 8D (2) reads in part:  "(2) At any time before a plan of management relating to the Park comes into force, the Director may grant written licences to the Authority- 
That is the Jabiru Town Authority-  authorizing it to do such things within the Park as are specified the licences, being things that he considers necessary or convenient to be commenced, before the plan of management comes into force, for and in relation to the establishment and development of a township at or near a place in the Region known as Jabiru. "(3) The Director shall not grant a licence under subsection (2) unless- 
the Authority has informed him, in writing- 

 Senator Puplick referred to this before;  that the Territory Commission, and each other Authority or body established by or under a law of the Northern Territory which the Authority has considered it appropriate to consult in relation to the issue of the licence, have agreed to the issue of the licence; 
That provision goes further than requiring consultation. The Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service shall agree to the Authority being granted a licence. Proposed new section 8D (5) reads: 
A licence may be varied at any time by the Director with the consent of the Authority. 
That provision goes a long way. This provision applies until the plan of management comes into force. I ask that the regulations for the National Park should not apply to the town of Jabiru. I believe that it is an impossible situation for regulations for a park to apply to a town. Of necessity, various things that go on in a town do not match the requirements of a national park. I refer to such things as traffic and the supply and use of liquor. I understand, that there already have been problems with rules which have been drafted. Problems have been pointed out in relation to the types of household- 
There is no suggestion of sly grog. Within the town a person should be able invite his friend into his house to have a drink. Of course, the use of certain household and garden sprays in the town will be restricted if the regulations relating to the Park are extended to the town as well. 
Proposed new section 8D (3) (b) states:  where, under the Aboriginal Land Rights ( Northern Territory) Act 1976, an Aboriginal Land Council has, or Aboriginal Land Councils have, been established for any area or areas wholly or partly within the Park- the Director has consulted with, and had regard to the views of, the  Chairman  of that Council or of each of those Councils, as the case may bc, in relation to the issue of the licence. 
I must admit that I am not quite sure what that proposed new section means. I ask the Minister to clarify the matter. On the plan of the National Park the area that is reserved for the town of Jabiru is described as an area in fee simple within the National Park and outside the area in relation to which the Aborigines were granted land rights. So it is not Aboriginal land. I ask the Minister whether this proposed new section actually relates to the proposed town of Jabiru. 
Over the last few years I have seen absolutely no problems arising over consultation with the Aboriginal people. They have been consulted. Aboriginal people are members of various boards on which they can advise, consult and so on. However, I am concerned about the town of Jabiru. Indeed, my concern goes past the town of Jabiru. I am concerned about the various laws that have been introduced in the Federal Parliament and in the Northern Legislative Assembly. I believe that the maze of administrative action required for the development of Jabiru, the National Park and mining is retarding development of the town.' I think the red tape is being overdone. I hope that continual additions will not be made to the laws relating to the control and running of Jabiru. They will only further restrict its workings and development. My concern is that each additional person to be consulted is another cog in the wheel of development, and that the whole process will grind more and more slowly. That is my only genuine concern about the matter. 
I have outlined the situation as I see it. I deplore the attacks that have been made on the Chief Minister. 
I do not know to what the honourable senator is referring. In this place tonight sly attacks have been made on the Chief Minister and newspaper reports have been referred to. All I can say is that the Minister is a most honourable, hard working person who is working in co-operation with the Federal Government. Between him and the Federal Government we will see uranium developed for the benefit of not only the Northern Territory but also Australia as a whole. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity. I refer the Minister to a report in the  Canberra Times  today entitled 'Design flaw in Nomad alleged'. The report states that radical changes should be made to the tail surface of the Nomad aircraft to remove features which make it potentially hazardous. Having in mind that this aircraft is now being used extensively by the Northern Territory medical service, as well as by the Army, and has been specified for several of the recent coastal surveillance contracts, is the Minister in a position to indicate whether the report is factual? If so, is it proposed to remove the Nomad from service? If not, what action are the authorities taking to overcome the problem which, according to one authority, can make the plane 'very unsafe if flown to the sorts of limits that people who buy it are likely to expect from it'? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether he and State Ministers who have responsibilities for the fishing industry have considered the desirability of creating a nationally uniform system of registration of vessels to enable immediate recognition by Customs, fisheries, surveillance and other officers in pursuit of law breakers, particularly on the northern coast of Australia? 
I present the following petition from 148 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: That in order to: - facilitate the development of the North of Australia - provide an all-weather rapid land transport system from north to south and vice versa - facilitate better defence of Northern Australia - provide improved transport for primary and mining products to southern markets - boost tourism 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Urge that the Federal Government give favourable consideration to proceeding forthwith with the completion of the construction of the North/South railway from Alice Springs to Darwin as a matter of priority. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Human Rights in the USSR 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I believe that part of it could also be directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Whilst landing facilities at the Royal Australian Air Force Darwin airport are of a high standard, the present civil airport facilities are well below the standards required for international and interstate traffic. Can the Minister advise whether a positive plan for future action is being developed? If so, is the present terminal site to be upgraded, or are alternative sites being considered? Does the Government intend to carry out in the interim period short term improvements to the existing buildings and parking area to cope with the chaotic situation that develops daily in the passenger terminal and car park area and, I might add, in the Customs area when an overseas aircraft arrives with a considerable number of passengers? 
It gives me much pleasure to support this Bill for an Act to grant financial assistance to certain States in relation to main railway lines. The purpose of the BDI, as has been indicated, is to enable the Minister for Transport to make agreements with those States operating main line railways whereby section 96 interest bearing repayable grants would be provided for main line railway improvements. As has been said, $70m is to be provided over the five years 1978-79 to 1982-83 inclusive. An amount of $3m has already been appropriated for this program in 1978-79 and future years allocation will be determined by Cabinet. I think the Federal Government is to be commended for the attitude that it is taking now to main line railways in Australia. It is most obvious now that, with the development of Australia and with the fuel shortages that are being anticipated, the most economic way for the future carrying of freight throughout Australia will be by developing the railway main line system. There are many matters about which I wish to speak tonight but, as my time is limited, I will make brief reference to just one or two points. The first point I wish to make is in relation to probably one of the biggest- if it's not the biggest- railway projects for at least the last two or three decades. I refer to the construction of the Tarcoola line, on the eastwest railway, to Alice Springs. I ask that a report entitled 'Tarcoola-Alice Springs Railway' be incorporated in  Hansard,  as I do not have time to discuss it. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

TARCOOLA-ALICE SPRINGS RAILWAY 
Construction of the 83 1 km Tarcoola-Alice Springs Railway is the largest single railway project to be undertaken in Australia since the completion of the Trans-Australian Railway 60 years ago. 
It has the added distinction of being the first major publicworks project in Australia to be planned and designed in metric measurements. Survey and design commenced in 1970-71 using metric units anticipating the change from the old Imperial system. 
The new standard gauge line is being built northwards from Tarcoola on the Trans-Australian Railway on a route generally ISO km west of the narrow gauge Marree- Alice Springs section of the Central Australia Railway, and generally outside or near the edge of the Lake Eyre drainage basin. It will by-pass much of the region that rendered the old line prone to flooding and washaways. 
Construction of the original narrow gauge railway northwards from Port Augusta commenced in 1 878 as part of a project by the South Australian Government to build a north-south trans-continental railway between Port Augusta and Darwin. It was completed to Marree in 1884 and to Oodnadatta in 1891. 
Forty and SO lb rails were used on unballasted timber sleepers and bridges were of wrought iron, designed to carry 8-ton axle loads. the Oodnadatta Railway was transferred to Federal control on 1 January 1911, under the terms of the Northern Territory Acceptance Act 1910. The extension from Oodnadatta to Alice Springs was constructed from 1 926 to 1 929. 
The section of narrow gauge line between Port Augusta and Marree was abandoned following the construction of the standard gauge Stirling North-Marree Railway which was completed in I9S7. Since that date Marree has been the transfer point for interchange of loading between standard and narrow gauge trains. 
Alternative RoutesDeficiencies in the existing narrow gauge railway location became apparent early in its life and several proposals for alternative routes have been considered in past years. 
In 1913 a trial survey was made from Kingoonya, on the Trans-Australian Railway, to near Boorthanna, some 250 km north of Marree. Again in 1925 extensive survey work was done on a direct route from Kingoonya to Alice Springs. 
Neither of these routes would have been far enough to the west to avoid the multitude of creeks and rivers of the Lake Eyre Basin which cause so much trouble on the old railway, and which would require enormous expenditure on bridges and waterways to bring the railway to a reasonably reliable all-weather' standard. 
A principal factor which applied in those days was the need for a railway to be located where ample water supplies for steam locomotives could be obtained. This constraint disappeared with the introduction of diesel-electric locomotives in the 1950's. 
Following the heavy demands of the war years and the increasing tonnages since, it became necessary for the then Commonwealth Railways system to embark on a major upgrading of the Trans-Australian Railway and to give serious consideration to the future of the Central Australia Railway. Upgrading of the Trans-Australian Railway had first priority, because of the proposed standardisation works which were to make it part of the trans-continental SydneyPerth standard gauge connection. A 10-year programme of rehabilitation and upgrading commenced in 1 963. 
At the same time, the possible relocation of the Central Australia Railway on a new route from Tarcoola to Alice Springs was envisaged and, in 1967, a detailed review of possible options was submitted to the Federal Government with the recommendation that the new Tarcoola-Alice Springs line be constructed to replace the old narrow gauge railway. 
The three possibilities investigated were: 
Upgrading of the existing narrow gauge Marree-Alice Springs Railways. 
Construction of a standard gauge railway on the Marree-Alice Springs route. 
Construction of a standard guage railway from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. 
Financial and economic comparison of these alternatives clearly showed the advantage of the Tarcoola-Alice Springs proposal. Upgrading of the narrow guage line would have been at higher capital cost while still more vulnerable to flood damage and disruption, and still necessitating the less economic narrow guage operation with change of guage at Marree. 
A standard guage Marree-Alice Springs railway would have been 50 per cent more costly than the Tarcoola-Alice Springs line, largely because of the great number of additional bridges that would be needed. 
The proposal was examined, in conjunction with other aspects of land transport to Alice Springs, by an Interdepartmental Committee, which endorsed the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner's recommendation and, in 1 970, approval in principle was given for the project. 
New Railway Route- 
The Tarcoola-Alice Springs route follows the shortest practicable which could connect Alice Springs to the TransAustralian Railway. At 83 1 km length, it is 40 km shorter than the old Marree-Alice Springs line. 
For the first 450 km northwards from Tarcoola to Chandler, it follows high and mainly level ground between the Lake Eyre Basin and the Great Victoria Desert, diverging a little to the west of a direct Tarcoola to Alice Springs une to by-pass the rough and broken country of the eastern part of the Everard Ranges. 
From Chandler to Alice Springs the route again lies with the major drainage systems of Lake Eyre and the Finke River, but crosses only three principal streams- the Alberga, Finke and Hugh Rivers- all at sites suitable for high level bridges. 
Much of the line passes through mulga woodlands on sandly and red earth plains, interspersed by sections of undulating tablelands with their characteristic mantle of surface stones ('gibbers'), and by a few tracts of sandridge country associated with the Great Victoria and Simpson Deserts. 
The general elevation rises progressively along the route from about 150m above sea level at Tarcoola to 600m at Alice Springs. The terrain permits long sections of straight track with easy grades and curves of large radius. The ruling grade of 1 in 125 (0.8 per cent) was necessary over only a few comparatively short sections. 
The general minimum radius of curve is 1,200m, but there are two curves of 1,000m radius. Curves with small total deflection angles have radii up to 4,000m. Half of the 1 10 curves on the route have total deflection angles of 10 degrees or less. 
All of the survey work was undertaken by the SurveyorGeneral for Australia, under the engineering direction ofthe Australian National Railways (then Commonwealth Railways). Trial survey northwards from Tarcoola commenced in November 1970. 
Extensive use was made of aerial photography and photogrammetric plotting for the survey work, and of" automatic data processing for the compilation of plans. The surveyors' field notes were processed by the CSIRO computer in Canberra which produced tape from which, in turn, the Surveyor-General's data plotter produced natural surface profile plans. 
Australian National Railways engineering staff then supplied input data for earthworks design and the profile plans were re-processed to produce finished working drawings, including complete details of all vertical curves, heights of embankments and depth of cut, and earthworks quantities. 
At 1.5 km per sheet, the longitudinal section required the plotting of over 5S0 sheets of drawings, each taking only a few minutes of actual plotting time on the automatic data plotter. 
The new Tarcoola-Alice Springs Railway is being designed and built to provide a reliable 'all-weather' service on a standard gauge track featuring continuously welded rails and prestressed concrete sleepers for minimal maintenance. 
It will be capable of carrying the 20-tonne axle load traffic of the Australian inter-capital rail network. 
Construction began on April 12, 1975, when the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  performed a 'turning of the sod' ceremony at Tarcoola. In the ceremony he used the same wheelbarrow used for a similar purpose at Port Augusta in 1878 for the commencement of construction of the Port Augusta to Government Gums (Farina) Railway, which was eventually extended to form the existing narrow gauge Central Australia Railway to Alice Springs. 
The construction of the new railway is now well advanced with earthworks, bridges and culverts being completed for more than 200 km, and track laid for some 160 km. The first 200 km section from Tarcoola to Manguri is expected to begin commercial operation later this year, and the line is scheduled for completion to Alice Springs during 1981. 
July, 1977 Australian Transport 
The Commonwealth Railways initiated this scheme a few years ago. The railway, with a length of 83 1 kilometres, was to be completed in 1 98 1 . As the Federal Government has accelerated its spending on that project in the last few months, the line will now be completed in 1980. This rail track between Tarcoola and Alice Springs is to be an all-weather one and will replace the old narrow gauge line. As honourable senators have indicated tonight, over many years there has been the promise that this railway line would be extended through from the north to the south. There is a very real interest by people in the outback Australia, the Top End, Darwin and so on, in the completion of this line. Because the 83 1 kilometres of new standard gauge railway line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs will be completed in October next year, I believe the time has come for the Federal Government and the Northern Territory Government to consider whether the construction of this line should be continued on to Darwin. 
As I have said, the Government has increased the priority of funds for the line to Alice Springs, which will enable the line to be completed a year earlier than expected. It is estimated that the line from Alice Springs to Darwin, if it were built now, would cost $224m. That is probably a very conservative estimate. The line, which is 1,530 kilometres long, would actually cost somewhere around $300m. This may seem a large sum of money. However, when one considers the benefits of an all-weather rail link on which people and goods can cross the continent in, say, some 36 hours and which will increase development in the north, one can see that it would be money well spent. Our ability to defend the northern coastline would be greatly improved and it would provide a quicker and possibly cheaper way of bringing in freight than would be the case by sea, which in the past has been proved to be unreliable, costly and subject to strikes-all of which factors threaten to retard the growth of Darwin and of the Northern Territory. 
As the world is now entering a period of fuel shortages and more costly fuel, it is interesting to make a comparison between freight rates. It is estimated that to bring a tonne of goods from Sydney to Darwin by road would expend 105 litres of fuel. To carry the same volume of goods by sea would expend some 65 litres, and to carry them by rail from Alice Springs to Darwin 16 litres would be used. If one wants to extend that distance to the southern areas, one would probably be looking at the use of approximately 30 litres of fuel per tonne by rail. With shortages of fuel being imminent, if we are to bring about economies, it is obvious that for the future the Government must look to rail transport. An authority on transport in Australia,  Sir Peter  Abels, in an off-the-cuff address to a meeting of the Security Institute in Melbourne on Wednesday, 16 May 1979, said that he agreed that the development of our national railway systems has to be encouraged in the future. The people of the North are very aware of the necessity for this line. As  Senator Robertson  has indicated in the last two weeks, I have presented a series of petitions. These petitions have been signed by people throughout the Northern Territory- from Darwin, Katherine, Tennant Creek, Alice Springs and other places. The petition reads: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That in order to: facilitate the development of the North of Australia provide an all-weather rapid land transport system from north to south and vice versa facilitate better defence of Northern Australia provide improved transport for primary and mining products to southern markets boost tourism - 
This petition is a plea from the people of the North to the Government that when this line to Alice Springs is completed, it should be constructed right through to Darwin. Admittedly, it will cost a great deal of money- some $200m to $300m. But I suggest that for the future development and defence of the North this would be money well spent. I wish to speak about the legal situation and the promise of the Federal Government in its agreement with South Australia. I have a document here entitled, 'Railway Standardization (South Australia) Agreement Act 1949' which outlines the present situation and a summary of the obligation to construct railways  still in force under the Northern Territory Acceptance Act. I seek leave to have this document incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Railway Standardization (South Australia) Agreement Act 1949 
Clause 2 1 of the agreement approved by this Act required the Commonwealth to- 
convert to standard guage the line between Port Augusta and Alice Springs 
b ) construct a standard guage line from Alice Springs to Birdum 
convert to standard guage the line from Birdum to Darwin. 
Paragraph (a) was rescinded by clause 6 (c) of the agreement approved by the Tarcoola to Alice Springs Railway Act 1974. 
Summary 
The only obligation to construct railways still in force under the Northern Territory Acceptance Act is that set out in paragraph 14(b) which is to construct a line from Port Darwin to the South Australian border. 
As the Railways (South Australia) Agreement Act 1926 was repealed in 1 974 the obligation on the Commonwealth to construct a railway under that Act is no longer a Commonwealth obligation. 
Under the 1974 Act the Commonwealth is obliged to construct a railway from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. 
To the extent that they have not been already performed, the Commonwealth has obligations under the Railway Standardization (South Australia) Agreement Act 1949 to construct a line from Alice Springs to Birdum and to convert to standard guage the line between Birdum and Darwin. 
I also have a news release dated 8 May from the Treasurer and Minister for Lands and Housing of the Northern Territory Government. It relates to the Northern Territory's grant submission to the Commonwealth Grant Commission. It includes a case for a freight equalisation scheme estimated to cost around $ 1 5m a year. It provides an illustration of transport costs to be incurred by the Federal Government and the Northern Territory Government over the years. I suggest that this would support the case for the continuation of the construction of the railway line from Alice Springs to Darwin. I seek leave to have this document incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 8 May 1979 Treasurer and Minister for Lands and Housing, Darwin 
News Release April 24, 1979 
The Territory Government's submission to the Commonwealth Grants Commission includes a case for a freight equalisation scheme estimated to cost $ 1 5m a year. 
The N.T. Government says it should have the financial capacity to subsidise transportation because of the high cost of internal and external freight. 
In its submission, the Government says the Commonwealth operates a freight equalisation scheme for Tasmania to help overcome the higher cost of sea and air freight compared with road and rail services available on the mainland. 
The Northern Territory was similarly isolated. 
There is no railway service to Darwin, the shipping service is irregular and so uneconomic that it is threatened with closure and during the Wet Season road transport is subject to costly delays. 
The N.T. Government says it should be granted the financial capacity to provide a freight cost equalisation subsidy. 
The Government's case to the Grants Commission suggests that such a subsidy be related to a percentage ton/kilometre per capita equivalent. 
This was because there was greater movement of interstate freight per head of population in the Territory, distances were greater, there were diseconomies of scale in moving small volumes of freight and frequent delays could only be avoided by using expensive air freight. 
The Government's case to the Grants Commission said the very high cost of external and internal freight was a significant disability affecting the Territory. 
As I said earlier, many discussions have taken place over the past few years in regard to this matter. Perhaps I should now come back to some of the criticisms that have been levelled at the present Government in relation to the closing down of the line from Darwin to Larrimah. Many reasons have been given for the closure of this line. The Coombs report to the previous Whitlam Government contained many recommendations on how much Government expenditure at that time was to be curtailed.  Dr Coombs  recommended to the Government at the time that the fuel equalisation scheme should cease. This scheme was introduced by the coalition government prior to 1972. The fuel equalisation scheme was then removed and the immediate result was that the fuel bill for the diesel locomotives on the Darwin-Larrimah line increased immensely. At that rime Frances Creek was the main customer. Because of the fuel increase, freight rate charges to carry iron ore from Frances Creek to Darwin were increased. Because freight rates increased the Frances Creek mining operation became uneconomic. It was unable to pay the railway freight charges. That rebounded on the North Australia Railway because in closing down Frances Creek it also became uneconomic. At this time, when  Mr Jones  was Minister for Transport, he initiated an economy survey on the line. I think his action was reasonable because it enabled the Government to see what was happening. The result was that as the fuel equalisation scheme was removed the price of fuel to the Territory increased. This made the North Australia Railway uneconomic, thus causing the line to close down. 
I believe the time has come where it is Australia's responsibility and the Federal Government's responsibility to continue the construction of the standard gauge line. With the line almost completed to Alice Springs I believe the time has come for work such as surveying to be carried out. This will ensure that the traffic corridor is safeguarded. The economics of the line should also be looked at. I suggest to the Federal and Northern Territory governments that in line with the development that has taken place in the Northern Territory these surveys should be carried out. 
As a matter of interest I point out that since Cyclone Tracy the growth in Darwin has been 10 per cent. In relation to population this is probably the biggest growth in Australia. Population growth in the Northern Territory is probably between 4 per cent and 5 per cent. I suggest that the North is developing. It is going ahead in leaps and bounds. The mining industry will be such that it will bring in immense revenue. The pastoral and tourism industries are also of considerable value. Overall there must be cohesion between the north and south. I believe that cohesion between the north and south, and the development of the north can be brought about by this national line. It will also assist with the defence of Australia. As I have said I commend the Government for its attitude. Obviously it sees a future for railways in Australia, particularly with the cost of fuel and the shortage that can be anticipated in the next few years. This railway will be a means of containing the cost of goods and leading to the development of the north of Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I ask: In view of the mass forced exodus of many Vietnamese from their homeland, which it has been estimated may reach the figure of two million people, what action is being contemplated by Australia, and those other countries which are literally being swamped by this unfortunate mass of humanity, to endeavour to stem the flow of refugees which has been brought about by the acts of the inhuman Vietnamese Government? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
1 ) When did the Government last review the zone allowance Tor taxation purposes. 
Will the Government undertake a further review of the allowance to ensure greater parity in lifestyle between people of the outback and persons living on the Eastern and Southern seaboard. 
I present the following petition from 359 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That in order to: facilitate the development of the North of Australia; provide an all-weather rapid land transport system from north to south and vice versa; facilitate better defence of Northern Australia; provide improved transport for primary and mining products to southern markets; boost tourism. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Urge that the Federal Government give favourable consideration to proceeding forthwith with the completion of the construction of the North-South railway from Alice Springs to Darwin as a matter of priority. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. It follows the announcement that the Government intends to sell its share in the Ranger uranium project. I ask: Does the Government intend to give its present partners first option on the shares? If so, under what terms of valuation and conditions will this be done? If not, will the shares be sold to Australian interests, after consultation with the Ranger partners and, if necessary, will sufficient time be given to permit those companies with the highest beneficial Australian interest to participate? If the answer to these two questions is no, what is the present situation in regard to the disposal of Federal Government shares in Ranger? 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
1 ) When is Kakadu National Park to be Gazetted. 
What authority will be responsible for its administration. 
Are the Pastoral leases of Goodparla and Gimbat Stations to be included in the National Park; if so, by what authority. 
Has there been adequate consultation between the Federal Government and the Northern Territory Government. 
Does the Government intend to include other nearby areas in the Kakadu National Park area. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 30 May 1 979: 
1 ) Has the Government considered the Neal Hird Report on Northern Territory Education: if so, are its recommendations to be implemented. 
Will the proposed transfer of the Northern Territory Department of Education to the Northern Territory Government on 1 July 1 979 have any effect on the recommendations of the report. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 8 June 1979: 
Are Federal and Northern Territory public servants permitted on: (a) recognised Aboriginal reserves; and (b) Aboriginal-owned pastoral leases and other Aboriginalowned land outside the recognised reserves, in the Northern Territory; if so, what procedures apply to public servants entering Aboriginal land: (i) on routine business, and (ii) in emergency situations. 
I  present the following petition from 2 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That in order to: 
Facilitate the development of the North of Australia. 
Provide an all-weather rapid land transport system from north to south and vice versa. 
Facilitate better defence of Northern Australia. 
Provide improved transport for primary and mining products to southern markets. 
Boost tourism. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Urge that the Federal Government give favourable consideration to proceeding forthwith with the completion of the construction of the North/South railway from Alice Springs to Darwin as a matter of priority. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the Commonwealth road fund allocations to South Australia and the fact that there is an increase in the national highways construction part of the allocation. Having in mind that the States are to match the Federal allocation with a quota from State resources, is the 
Minister in a position to advise what work is likely to be carried out this financial year by the South Australian Government on the upgrading and sealing of the Stuart Highway, known as the South Road, between Pimba in South Australia and the Northern Territory-South Australian border. 
I present the following petition from 139 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That in order to: 
Facilitate the development of the North of Australia. 
Provide an all-weather rapid land transport system from north to south and vice versa. 
Facilitate better defence of Northern Australia. 
Provide improved transport for primary and mining products to southern markets. 
Boost tourism. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Urge that the Federal Government give favourable consideration to proceeding forthwith with the completion of the construction of the North-South railway from Alice Springs to Darwin as  a  matter of priority. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 6 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Northern Territory of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the natural resources of Australia and in particular the uranium deposits of the Northern Territory should be exploited by companies which have substantial Australian interests so that the benefits accrue to all Australians. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members should: 
In the event of a decision to sell the interest of the Australian Government in the Ranger Uranium Mining project, ensure that the sale of such interest be only to Australian buyers. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 123 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That in order to: facilitate the development of the North of Australia provide an all-weather rapid land transport system from north to south and vice versa facilitate better defence of Northern Australia provide improved transport for primary and mining products to southern markets boost tourism 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should: 
Urge that the Federal Government give favourable consideration to proceeding forthwith with the completion of the construction of the North/South railway from Alice Springs to Darwin as a matter of priority. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science and the Environment. In view of the Federal Government's announcement that it may dispose of its shares in the 
Ranger uranium project in the Northern Territory, will any environmental aspects of the project have to be reviewed? Will the Government continue to control those environmental aspects? 
I note that there were only five members of the Australian Labor Party in the Senate when the quorum was called. In regard to the papers that  Senator Coleman  has incorporated in  Hansard,  I must say that despite interjections asking for a particular fatality to be cited, she did not do so. We will have to wait until tomorrow to peruse those papers to see just what they were all about. Of course, I think that it would have been better if she had answered the interjections. The terms of the matter of urgency before the Senate read: 
The moral obligation of Australia, as an energy rich country in an energy starved world, to undertake commercial development of its abundant resources including uranium. 
One cannot restrict such a debate entirely to uranium because very many resources in Australia are being mined now. I should say that at this stage those resources are being mined to a greater extent. Australia is a very lucky country. It has mineral and pastoral wealth. Its wealth more than compares with that of most countries of the world, despite the fact that we have a small population. Surely that factor alone warrants, at this stage of the world's growth and population, that we should share the abundance of this wealth that we have about us. It is all very well for some to say that because we have this abundance of wealth we should not export it. 
A few years ago we were in the utmost trouble because of our operational, management and handling costs. This was at a time when under Labor inflation rose to 18 per cent. What happened then was that Australia's resources were out-priced on the world market. Thank goodness that in the last few years we have come back to taws- to an inflation rate of some 9 per centand that there are ready markets overseas for the abundance of energy resources that we have in Australia. There are very many reasons why we should export overseas. I would like to indicate Australia's uranium policy. I think that the people should know this. Australia's uranium policy was announced on 25 August 1977. After exhaustive consideration of all the issues, the Government decided that there should be further development of uranium under strictly controlled conditions. In announcing the Government's decision, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said: 
The Government especially has been conscious that in a world of finite resources that is an obligation on resourcerich nations, such as Australia, to make these resources available to meet the legitimate needs of other nations. 
Australia was expected at that time to receive the bulk of the new uranium orders placed in the following few years. The Prime Minister went on to say that government approval for the development to proceed had been given to the Ranger, Nabarlek and Yeelirrie uranium projects. The situation is that Australia's known uranium resources at the moment represent some 18 per cent to 20 per cent of the world 's resources. Our resources are in the world class and they are required overseas. 
I would like to take the opportunity now of discussing a table which I have before me. I ask that it be incorporated in  Hansard.  It has been shown to the Minister who is in charge of the 
House at the moment. A copy of it is on the desk of the Opposition Whip. He was not in the chamber and I was not able to show it to him. 
The table that I wish to incorporate in 

 Hansard relates to the world nuclear power reactors. It shows that on order in the world today there are 98 reactors, that 209 reactors are under construction, that 212 are in operation and that 323 are known to be planned. As at 3 August 1979, in the world today there are on order, under construction, in operation and known to be planned a total of 844 reactors. I would like honourable senators to peruse this document. Indeed, I would like the people of Australia to peruse this document when they see it in  Hansard.  It indicates that the world nuclear power reactors are not just in the developed countries, but that very many are now being constructed or planned in the undeveloped countries. 
Yes, the Philippines. 
It is all very well for  Senator Coleman,  with the very comfortable life that she enjoys in Australia, to laugh. But would she like to go to the Philippines, as I have, and see the people there living in the open without comfort or any source of power? Would she laugh then? It is all very well for the honourable senator to laugh. Let her go to the Third World countries- to the poor countries- which are short of power. She speaks so much about human dignity and humanity. I have a table which indicates that nuclear power reactors exist in Iron Curtain countries. The point I make is that nuclear power reactors are a part of life in the world today; they are required for the good living and welfare of the very many nations. These 844 reactors are in 47 countries. I seek leave to incorporate this table in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="082232197908291_41_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="082232197908291_42_1.jpg"></graphic>

I refer briefly to the development of uranium mining in Australia. The first uranium was mined at Uranium Hill in South Australia and treated at Port Pirie. In the Northern Territory it was mined at Moline and at Rum Jungle. In those days a number of people worked in the uranium mines. I know most of those who worked at Rum Jungle and Moline and who are still in the Territory today. I see no effects on them whatsoever. They also remark on that fact. There is far too much made of the illness that can be contracted through uranium mining. As  Senator Bishop  has said, I was in Hungary with him last year and we went to a mining area where uranium was being mined at a depth of approximately 6,000 feet to 7,000 feet. We spoke at length to the Minister for energy in that country which, of course, is behind the Iron Curtain. He asked what on earth was the matter and what was wrong with the people in Australia that they were not mining uranium. He said that in mining uranium in Hungary to a depth of 6,000 feet to 7,000 feet there had not been one casualty. Honourable senators can disagree with that if they wish, but that is what the 
Minister had to say. He made a comparison with the mining of coal where there had been many injuries. 
In regard to the situation in South Australia, it has been well proved that Roxby Downs would require an initial investment of at least $ 1 ,000m and would create further investment and employment opportunities in many other areas. It is estimated that if Roxby Downs were developed, approximately 1,700 people would be employed. The establishment of a uranium enrichment plant would bring even greater benefits to South Australia. The estimated cost of such a project is put at $2,000m. There is a general requirement overseas for Australian uranium. I see no reason why South Australia should not participate. It is in a poor economic situation and needs a considerable boost. Projects such as these would assist that State. A survey on industrial investment conducted by the Commonwealth Department of Industry and Commerce in April 1 979 showed that the level of investment in South Australia was a dismal $255m. In contrast, $ 1,750m has been committed to investment projects in Victoria, $ 1,865m in New South Wales, $2, 438m in Queensland and an enormous $5, 389m in Western Australia. Those figures speak for themselves. 
I turn to the Northern Territory. Despite the knockers, both in and out of the Territoryprincipally out of it- uranium is making a tremendous difference to that part of Australia. No matter where one goes in the Northern Territory one will find that the Territory is moving ahead very rapidly. Of course, this is not only because of the development of uranium. One need look only at the economy of Darwin and at the building up of Jabiru. Despite what the figures show about high unemployment, at Jabiru literally hundreds of men are being employed and there are not sufficient men in Darwin to match the labour requirement in the development of Jabiru. There are jobs to spare, and people come from the south to find work. An effect of the development of uranium mining is increased employment. That will bring about the development of the north of Australia and it will also lead to an increase in the population of the area. 
One thing has to be remembered about the future. It cannot be denied that Australia has the right, the necessity and the moral requirement to provide energy to other countries, but one can also see the richness and prosperity that will come to Australia. It has been said, and will be proved, that the present deposits of uranium in Australia now measure up to the black oil of the Arab countries. With the prosperity that will come about through the exporting of uranium- a prosperity similar to that given to the Middle East countries by oil- Australia can look forward to having an influence similar to that which the Arab nations have in the world today. Despite the knocking of many people, I expect uranium mining will bring prosperity to the people of Australia, and it will allow Australia to assist the underdeveloped nations. I support the motion. I believe it is a very good motion and it should receive the support of all honourable senators. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
Does the Government intend to review the structure of domestic Tares, in view of the increasing costs per kilometre, as a result of the two airline policy for long-haul passengers to such places as North Queensland, Northern Territory and Western Australia; if so, will the Government consider increasing the flag fall components by approximately $2 on short-haul heavy loading routes in the south, thus reducing the price of long haul fares by substantial amounts estimated to be more than $50 per fare. 
I  present the following petition from 90 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Northern Territory of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the natural resources of Australia and in particular the uranium deposits of the Northern Territory should be exploited by companies which have substantial Australian interests so that the benefits accrue to all Australians. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members should: 
In the event of a decision to sell the interest of the Australian Government in the Ranger Uranium Mining project, ensure that the sale of such interest be only to Australian buyers. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs: Can he advise the present situation in regard to the stand taken by traditional owners in the Oenpelli area of the Northern Territory, who have objected to vehicles proceeding through that area to service Nabarlek, the Queensland Mines Ltd uranium deposit? In what way is the Northern Land Council involved? What legal moves, if any, have been taken by either of the three parties, that is Queensland Mines Ltd, the traditional owners, and the Northern Land Council? What has been the outcome of any such moves? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
When will the Federal Government, in liaison with the Northern Territory Government (a) make an evaluation of the proposed North-South railway from Alice Springs to Darwin, to determine its social, defence and economic implications; and (b) survey the intended route so that a transport service corridor may be reserved for future construction, particularly in view of the number of petitions on the subject presented in the Senate between 22 May and 21 August 1979. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 June 1979: 
Will a representative of the Northern Territory be appointed to the board of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, as an acknowledgement of the Territory's political and general development. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. As a territorian, I have more than a passing interest in the present stage of development, and sale, of Northern Territory uranium, and I ask the Minister: Is it the intention of the Government and the Ranger partners, Peko-EZ, to continue to market their share of uranium production separately? If so, has a firm price been established? Having in mind also that the Government's Ranger shares may be on the market, is the criticism made by would-be buyers that, although firm proposals for the purchase of the shares must be in the hands of the Government by the end of this month, the Government has given insufficient information as a foundation upon which a firm proposal may be made? 
One would have to go a long way before one struck such a dismal and pessimistic viewpoint as the one that has just been expressed. I think we can thank God that the viewpoints and the supposed facts that have been expressed in this debate today and particularly yesterday cannot be supported. The fact is that Australia has been through a difficult time. Everyone in the nation realises that. When the coalition Government went out of power in 1972, unemployment and inflation were stabilised. But from that year onwards there was a rapid increase in inflation, with the result that by 1974- in some three years- inflation had increased to something like 14 per cent. It has been stated before, and it is a fact, that when Labor went out of power in 1975 the inflation rate was nearly 18 per cent. Unemployment had gone hand in hand with inflation, and by then, of course, the unemployment rate had risen to about 5 per cent. 
Honourable senators opposite do not like to have to face up to the sins they committed when they were in government. They complain about the situation now, but they should remember that they were the creators of that situation and that in the last three years it has been necessary to take steps to bring about a responsible, stable economic situation, which I suggest is with us today. The inflation rate has gone down to about 8 per cent. It is recognised that our inflation rate is one of the lowest in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries. It is some 2 per cent below the average for those countries. It is no mean feat to get into this situation. As I said earlier, it has been achieved by very hard work. 
This is a responsible and reasonable Budget, despite what the knockers have to say. It is interesting to note that the opposition to this Budget was more than spontaneous. The opposition to it came before it could be read or appreciated. Rent-a-crowds were arranged to voice opposition to the Budget. The arrangements were made before the Budget was actually tabled. I suppose that  rent-a-crowds have some use; but surely it means little to the people of Australia that people have to be paid to be pressured to come along like fools and be told what to do. But this is what happened. The renta.crowds and the hangers-on are the tools of the militant left wing unions. 
I do not know what  Senator Button  has to say about the matter. Let me get on with the matter under discussion and review the Budget theme. It was stated very clearly in the following terms: 
The clear benefits of firmly pursuing an anti-inflationary policy over more than three years are reason enough to re-affirm that policy . . . 
I believe that the silent majority of Australians believes in that policy and supports it. There are very many indications that the policy objective is being achieved. The supposed facts that  Senator Gietzelt  gave a little while ago, when he said that unemployment was increasing, that consumer spending was down - 
Yes, possibly he was referring to South Australia. I will refer a little later to a situation that has come about there. Over the last months there has been a clear indication that unemployment is levelling out- I will give official figures later- and employment is improving, despite what the knockers say, namely that we are drifting into a depressed and recessed state. At times I wonder whether it is the wish of these people that the Australian economy be eroded and destroyed, and that the country go into a depression. It appears to me that this is the aim of some people. I will refer to this later in my remarks when I refer to the actions of the militant left wing unions and what they are endeavouring to do to erode or white ant the economic state of the country as it is today. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Before the sitting was suspended I had been discussing the very worthwhile themes of the Budget and had noted that the clear benefits that had resulted from firmly pursuing an anti-inflationary policy for more than three years were reason enough to reaffirm that policy. Moreover, the difficulties that over the next year are to be faced by the entire industrialised world, including Australia, in responding to fresh inflationary pressures, make it all the more essential that fighting inflation should be the hallmark of this Budget. Although I am sure all Government supporters will agree with me on that I suggest that it would be the belief of the silent majority of Australians also. 
This is a Budget which seeks to reduce inflation and promote sound, broadly-based growth. It provides incentive for both individuals and business within a responsible overall framework that is conducive to our longer-term economic goals. The Budget significantly reduces the call of Government upon this nation's financial markets and equips Australia to succeed in a world environment of rising inflation and intensifying competition. 
It is interesting to look back at the debate that has taken place and to recall the rather depressed tone in which  Senator Colston  and  Senator Gietzelt  have discussed the Budget. That reflects their way of thinking, but  Senator Colston  struck a very depressed note indeed. I see no reason for it. In his thinking the honourable senator got almost to the track, as it were, and then turned back. All he could say was that the depressed economic situation that he sawwhich I repeat really does not exist- had resulted from the actions of this Government.  Senator Gietzelt  's remarks were even more interesting.  His  approach to the Budget was a knocking approach, but that is the nature of politics. He got to the point of saying that the Budget had a responsible part to play, but was not the end-all and be-all. He got to the middle of the track and then he too turned back. If those honourable senators had crossed the track and had taken a balanced view of the Budget and its responsibilities- it is after all a framework, a body of economic guidelines for the future- I am sure that they would have had to say that the community and unions also had a part to play. 
Today we see much abuse of the union system. Most government supporters in the Parliament would agree with me that the principle of unionism is extremely desirable, that it is warranted and necessary, and that its introduction over the years has been good for employees. I suggest that it has also been good for employers. But something has happened. The union system, as it operates today, is under test. One could say that it has developed a cancerous growth. I say that because the union system has been abused, though not by the individual, who is in a very difficult situation. It appears to me and to many, if not most, Australians that the left wing of the union system represents a very irresponsible approach, as has been demonstrated by its forays, its attacks, against the economic base of Australia. Therefore, if we are to get Australia back onto the proper financial footing, with inflation levels under control, militant unionism surely must be considered its No. 1 enemy. 
We heard  Senator Gietzelt  relate sad stories of what had happened to people who were in poor circumstances. I would not joke about that, or disagree with him. We know that in Australia there are people who live under such circumstances. But if the honourable senator had been fair and had taken a balanced look at the situation he would have gone across the line and examined the militant unionism system, which today is making irresponsible raids upon our economy. Let us look at what is happening to the small people, to the family which is part of the union system. I have seen what happens. An irresponsible strike may last for weeks. The official who guides the strike can be seen to be living on the cream of the economy. He is fully paid. 
He is fully paid,  Senator, and  I suggest that while the strike continues he receives extra privileges too. But what about the small man who gets no pay whatsoever and week by week has few rations coming into his home? What must he do? He has no money and must obtain finance from some source. These families have very little to live on. Recently I have seen unionists, in an attempt to keep money flowing to their families, obliged to draw on their holiday pay- to bring into the house a few scant dollars so that food can be bought for the children. Then, the strike having continued, the time arrives when no further money will come in unless he finds a part-time job. But what happens then? The strike eventually comes to a shaky conclusion and everyone returns to work. The union member, having lost four or six weeks work, is probably a thousand dollars down the drain. But all that this battle, this foray, this raid upon the economic situation has brought him is $2, $3, $4 or $5 a week extra. He has suffered a loss from which he will never recover. All must agree surely that this is irresponsible unionism. 
Yet there is, naturally, a part for unionism to play. The unionist is a part of the country. I repeat that I agree with unionism. There is a part for it in the development of the country. Naturally, without our unions there can be no development. The Arbitration Commission system was developed so that the employer and employee could come together, but now one learns that that system is to be tossed into the gutter because the militant unions want more than the Commission is prepared to recommend as representing the preservation of a fine balance in the development of a fine country such as Australia is today. Australia is a fine country. If one travels round the world one will see that, despite the problems we have today, we are the envy of most countries of the world. We have the resources and the standard of living. We have everything that should make Australia a fine producing country. But, of course, we are having troubles.  Senator Gietzelt  also had, one could only say, a peculiar bee in the bonnet about big business, as he calls it, and corporations. He reads the daily newspapers and sees with horror the profits that are being announced annually by private enterprise within Australia. He does not look at those areas where business is in the red. 
That is quite true. Perhaps he would not want to look at the position in South Australia as the metal industry is really the only industry keeping South Australia going. Yet we have the preposterous situation of left wing unions wishing to destroy that industry. 
The honourable senator has let this get under his skin. We had the situation only this week of the militant unions seeking an extra $40 a week. I presume that if they receive this $40 a week this would bring the car industry of South Australia to a standstill. It would founder and disappear. One can believe this.  (Quorum formed).  As I was about to say, when one looks at the balance sheets of the car industry in South Australia, one can see that it is teetering on the precipice and it will not take too much to push it over. That will be the end of industry in South Australia and so there will be mass unemployment. As I have said before, I wonder why this action has been taken. All I can assume is that militant unionism in Australia wishes to destroy the economy of Australia. The point to take into consideration is why the South Australian Government has said that it will agree to go along with the rises that are being sought. It means, of course, that that Government also will have to shoulder the blame when this industry goes under. 
I have spoken before about  Senator Gietzelt  saying that there is growing unemployment, that consumerism is down and that it is a bit like Hanrahan in that, regardless of what happened, the world was lost. I do not know if he has ever read it, but that reminds me of a passage from The Boree Log, namely, 'We will all be lost', said Hanrahan, 'before the year is out'. No matter what happened, it was the end. I will briefly refer to the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  In doing so, I think that Australia is fortunate in having such a leader and such a  deputy  leader. They have courage and they are the guiding force that is putting Australia back on the tracks, yet it seems to be fashionable for mudslinging to occur. I suppose that is because their opponents fear them and fear the success that they are making of bringing Australia out of the morass, the bog and the mud in which the Labor Government delivered it a few years ago. In his speech, the Prime Minister said: 
The strategy that we followed has already been vindicated. In the year to June 1979, compared with the figure a year ago, civilian employment is up by more than 64,000, and it is worth noting that the number of full time unemployed is 18,000 fewer than it was a year ago. How many people out in the countryside are aware of that? 
One would wonder because so much mud is thrown around to disguise the true situation. The Prime Minister went on to say: 
So often, people have reported that unemployment is rising and continues to rise; but, on the figures issued by the Bureau of Statistics, unemployment is 18,000 fewer than it was a year ago. Unemployment has been reduced from 6.2 percent to 5.8 percent. 
The Prime Minister went on to say that profitability is up, but it can be improved even more. He continued: 
Inflation is down substantially from the 17 per cent of Labor's years to around 9 per cent. This figure is higher than we would like and higher than we believed at this time last year it would be; but we all know what has happened since ... On an annualised basis, inflation in the United States is now running at around 14 per cent. On the latest figures, inflation in the United Kingdom is around 22 per cent. 
When one looks at the position in those two nations, which unfortunately are running at such a high inflation rate, one notices that their trade is sluggish and the whole state of output is on the decline. Of course, the situation in Australia is now changing. Markets are picking up. It  has  been clearly indicated in the last few weeks that consumer buying is picking up, which I think is very good. One would expect it but, at the same time, one would also expect that the people of Australia would be fearful of the militant unions and the strikes that surround them day by day. Obviously they can see that there is a future and that militant unionism can be defeated not only by the framework of government but also by the employees and the employers in the Australian community playing their part. Comment has been made on two matters which arose from the Budget, namely, taxation and the surcharge that has been lifted. Once again I must refer to  Senator Gietzelt,  who keeps on talking about higher taxes. Of course, the inference is that the rate of taxation is going up. There is no such thing as an increase in the taxation rate. When one looks at what has been done in the Budget, one can see that the taxation rate has come down. The only way a person can pay more tax is by earning more. 
This is a natural sequence for a country that is developing and which has an increasing standard of living, because of higher wages. Naturally he will pay a little more. 
Shame on you,  Senator, having  a Mercedes-Benz and coming from the Labor side of the chamber. 
I drive a Honda, and I am proud to say it. We had the situation where  Mr Risstrom  hit the headlines. He reminded me of a ballet dancer who wanted to get all the acclaim of the country, but I am afraid that the proposition he has put forward has not been thought through. I think he shot from the hip because when one examines the situation it is quite obvious that the total additional cost of  Mr Risstrom  's proposals is in the order of $900m. Let us not belittle the situation as far as unemployment is concerned. I believe that the development that will take place because of the 1979-80 Budget- the action and moves that are being taken within the Budget to encourage young people, apprentices and new work projects- will bring about a situation where unemployment will decrease. I say once again that the Government has produced a framework for the Budget that can put Australia back on the rails but it is up to the unions, employers and employees to play their part. They would be fools not to because what has been offered to them by the Fraser Government is something that will bring prosperity to Australia in the future. 
I refer the Minister representing the Prime Minister to the report in the  Australian  dated 13 September 1979 headed Mining Shares Rocket to Record'. Firstly, is the Minister aware that the Sydney share market key indicator has reached an all-time record of 663.58 points and tops the record mining boom of January 1970? Secondly, is the Minister aware that this record is reported as having been influenced by the Government's 1979-80 Budget which has brought about an influx of overseas capital enabling development of Australian industry and providing increased employment? Thirdly, is he aware of the prediction by Wall Street and the financial world that Australia will weather the energy crisis better than most countries? In view of these developments, does the Minister agree that these factors should give confidence to Australian industry and to the individual and bring about a realisation that the Opposition's criticisms of the 1979-80 Budget lack perception? 
I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Northern Territory of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the natural resources of Australia and in particular the uranium deposits of the Northern Territory should bc exploited by companies which have substantial Australian interests so that the benefits accrue to all Australians. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members should: 
In the event of a decision to sell the interest of the Australian Government in the Ranger Uranium Mining project, ensure that the sale of such interest be only to Australian buyers. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Transport to the fact that the Government has indicated that during recent negotiations it has endeavoured to interest airlines from the Association of South East Asian Nations region and elsewhere to operate services to and from Darwin and other ports of Australia. I remind him also that the Government has advised Australian domestic airlines that it is prepared to consider proposals to open services on regional international routes not presently served by Qantas Airways Ltd for which the domestic airlines have suitable equipment. Having in mind the interest that has been generated by the thought that Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines could operate to our closer neighbours such as Indonesia, New Zealand, Fiji, New Guinea and so on, can the Minister say what the present situation in regard to these proposals is? Have the Australian airlines indicated their attitude? What has been the reaction of members of the ASEAN countries and others to the Australian Government proposals? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science and the Environment. With the establishment in Darwin by the Federal Government of the Lionel Rose Laboratory, which with the subsequent transfer of powers to the Northern Territory Government is under the control of that government, what role is now envisaged for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in animal health research and surveillance in the north? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
What action has the Government taken to reintroduce measures to encourage oil and gas exploration, thereby enabling a reasonable assessment to be made of fuel resources on the Australian mainland. 
I refer the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to the fact that it has been reported that a legal opinion has thrown into doubt the ability of officers of the Federal Government entrusted with surveillance duties in the north, such as those involving quarantine matters, to enter onto Aboriginal land, particularly in an emergency. If this is so, what action is being taken to ensure that the security of the coastline in the Northern Territory is not jeopardised by legislation relating to Aboriginal affairs? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
Has the majority of shares in the Outback Airline, Connair, been sold; if so: 
who has acquired the shares; and 
what effect will any resultant changes in Connair 's role have on outback travellers. 
asked asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
1 ) What action is proposed to bring the present broad gauge rail link in South Australia from Crystal Brook to Adelaide to standard gauge specifications, in view of the fact that the new standard gauge rail lines from Tarcoola to Alice Springs will be completed in 1980 to provide a standard gauge link west to Perth and east to Sydney, and that most goods for the Northern Territory come from Adelaide and Northern Territory beef cattle go mainly to the Adelaide market. 
2 ) What is the proposed timetable for any such alteration to the specifications of the Crystal Brook-Adelaide line. 
Is it feasible, for convenience and economy, to bring about a standard gauge line by the addition of a third rail. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer the Minister to a statement made this week by an officer of the Department of Health that the Department had made health checks on several hundred miners working in the uranium areas of Rum Jungle and Moline some 25 years ago; that there appeared to be no illeffects from uranium mining at that time; that the checks had continued until the late 1960s; and that the results had been deposited in the archives. I ask: In view of the importance of these records, will the Minister request the Minister for Health to prepare a report on the contents of these documents for the information of the Parliament? Also, will the Government carry out further health checks on the many miners who can still be contacted in order to measure their present state of health? 
I  direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs which relates to the fact that many Aboriginal communities are fragmenting to quite a degree, w-h many tribal families and clans returning to their tribal homelands under what has been termed the outstation movement. What is the Government's attitude to such moves? How does the Government see its responsibilities in the areas of health, education, community projects, et cetera? Do the State and Northern Territory governments also have responsibilities in these areas? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
1 ) How will the Government's recovery of costs from the domestic airline sector over a three year period, as announced in the 1 979-80 Budget Speech, affect charges to the individual traveller using major airline services? 
What effect will this measure have on air chaner companies, flying clubs and privately owned aircraft? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is reported that the Hanoibacked Government of Kampuchea has admitted that more than two million of its people are facing starvation but has said that offers of aid from the United States and Japan are tied to unacceptable political conditions. Is the Government in a position to comment on this statement and to indicate the present situation in Kampuchea? Is aid such as that from Australia getting through to these starving people or is it being intercepted and used by others? Is aid from other nations of the Western world which is being processed for Kampuchea now too late and too little to bring about any significant relief for the starving population of that country? 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Crop Adaptation Laboratory Tor the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation at Black Mountain. Acton, Australian Capital Territory. 
In supporting the motion that the debate be now adjourned I wish to point out that I intended to speak on the matter. If  Senator Gietzelt  can stand and make certain criticisms of the Northern Territory Government it is unfair that I am unable to answer the charges. 1, too, hope to speak on the matter at an early date. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. When speaking to the National Press Club on Wednesday, 10 October, the Chief Minister for the Northern Territory,  Mr Paul  Everingham, suggested that the defence establishment, particularly the engineering and service corps, could provide an enormous boost to Aboriginal communities in the Territory by raising a force of approximately 1,000 Aborigines, principally to educate them in trades et cetera, which would enable them to participate more in local government-type activities. Having in mind that this type of service appears to attract these young men, as instanced by the Volunteer Army Unit in the Top End, will the Minister take up the matter with the Government in an endeavour to give a much-needed boost to Aboriginal employment, particularly amongst Aboriginal youth, whose numbers are increasing tremendously throughout the Northern Territory? 
I refer the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to a report in the media that the Northern Territory Government is to institute a challenge in the High Court of Australia regarding the Utopia land claim. Having in mind the many contentious views that are being expressed in regard to recent Aboriginal land claims in the Northern Territory, I ask: Is the Minister in a position to advise what is the present position in regard to the matter? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I ask: Having in mind the problems that exist in the fields of Aboriginal health, education and employment and the fact that a large number of organisations, including government departments and authorities and community organisations, participate in these areas, does the Government acknowledge that there appears to be a lack of efficiency and a degree of high cost associated with many, although not all, of these organisations, where consultation and liaison is minimal, and there is much overlapping and duplication of effort? If so, will the Government review the overall expenditure and operation of government-financed organisations to ensure that finance is better spent and that results are more in keeping with the high level of financial assistance that is now being provided by the Federal Government for the Australian Aboriginal people? 
I present the following petition from 38 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That in order to: facilitate the development of the North of Australia; provide an all-weather rapid land transport system from north to south and vice versa; facilitate better defence of Northern Australia; provide improved transport for primary and mining products to southern markets; boost tourism; 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should: 
Urge that the Federal Government give favourable consideration to proceeding forthwith with the completion of the construction of the North-South railway from Alice Springs to Darwin as a matter of priority. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Gambling Casino in Canberra 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister by referring to the many reports emanating from widespread sources which indicate that the true position of the unfortunate people of Timor is that they are suffering extreme hardship and that a large number of the population have died and are dying of hunger and deprivation following the invasion of East Timor by Indonesia. As Australia has considerable responsibility towards these near neighbours, will the Government take action by, firstly, offering the Indonesian Government defence force equipment and personnel such as transport, helicopters, medical teams and engineers to deliver essential food supplies and equipment for agriculture, the reconstruction of roads and so on; and, secondly, offering taxation deduction incentives to give added encouragement to the Australian community to donate to such funds as the Catholic Refugee Fund, Lions International and Australian Red Cross, which are taking the initiative in raising funds and forwarding essential supplies to Timor? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. As the Northern Territory Government has indicated its interest in taking over the Federal Government's share in the Ranger Uranium mine at Jabiru, Northern Territory, to give that Government and the people of the Northern Territory a more direct share and participation in the development of uranium mining in the Territory, and having in mind that the Federal Government is at present reviewing applications from overseas and Australian mining interests which wish to purchase the Federal Government's shares, what is the present position in relation to the overall matter? Is it the intention of the Federal Government to permit the Northern Territory Government to become an interested party? 
I will be brief. I join  Senator Bonner  and  Senator Gietzelt  in their remarks in regard to East Timor. I have been one of a half dozen in this Parliament up until about a year ago who were quite vocal in criticisms of the situation in Timor. I have not said anything publicly for a year because it has been the thought amongst us that, if we said nothing further, perhaps in some way the situation would not be aggravated and Indonesia may see fit to allow more Timorese to come in and more assistance to be given to Timor. 
As honourable senators probably realise, I have a very high regard for the Timorese people. I too have visited Timor. I have spent some time in the mountains with the Timorese people. I was in an old vehicle. I knocked around the countryside with four of them. This was just prior to the Portuguese moving out of Timor. Of course, it was obvious then that the troubles were coming. Unfortunately the Timorese were ill-prepared for the Portuguese leaving so abruptly. They were not allowed to have any political meetings, gatherings and so on. Their endeavours to evolve into a nation were in their infancy. It is quite true that, if some assistance had been given in those days, in the form of force without arms from Australia- friendship- the whole problem could have been avoided. 
Let me explain what has hurt me most over the years when I have looked back on that visit to Timor. It was hot in the mountains. I was dressed in an old khaki garb, I suppose, very akin to the drill of the Australian Army. The old men would come out of the villages, salute me and greet me as a friend as they recognised me as an Australian. I would sit down with them and we would talk of what was happening and they would tell me of what they could see coming. They had no fears at all because they said: 'It will be all right, because we know that, if there is trouble coming, Australia is going to look after us.' Of course, this did not happen. It did not happen in any way whatsoever. These people assisted Australian troops in the last War at the risk of death. They assisted them in many ways. This was their repayment. 
Of course, it is no use continuing to whip ourselves but we should now endeavour to do something to alleviate the problems that they face. I still have contact with the Timorese. I suppose in Darwin there are some 600 Timorese. I often visit their homes and I see quite a lot of them. In fact, it has been my good fortune to meet some of the Timorese who have escaped from Timor and who now live in Darwin. They are proving to be extremely good citizens, but they are very sad. They are sad because most of them have fragmented families. All they wish for is to be reunited with their families. Of course, as we well know, there are arrangements for some 600 Timorese to come to Australia to be reunited with their families. I think that the figure to date is about 286. 1 have asked the authorities and I have spoken to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs,  Mr Michael  MacKellar, who is a most sympathetic person, to endeavour to bring about with the Indonesian Government the scrapping of this list. I believe very few more will come out because unfortunately many of the people on the list have disappeared. They have disappeared for many reasons. Some have died from hunger and because they were deprived of medical attention and so on. 
I would say that we are getting used to hearing horror stories. We have seen films of the atrocities and problems in Kampuchea and once again Timor is in the news. I would think that this time Australia must heed the problems of the Timorese people. The news has come out that possibly 100,000 to 200,000 people have died through being deprived of medical assistance, through starvation and so on. It was very welcome news today when, in answer to my question,  Senator Carrick  indicated that the Australian Government is to give taxation concessions to people who wish to donate to the people of East Timor. This, I think, will apply to donations to the Red Cross. I would also commend to the Government that these taxation concessions be applied to people who donate to the Catholic Fund. I asked for this concession this morning. This organisation is doing a tremendous job also. Lions International, the Red Cross of course, and others are involved in relief operations. We have to do much more. 
It may have sounded a weak idea that I put forward earlier. I put forward these thoughts two years ago when we first knew that troubles existed in Timor in relation to starvation and so on. I put the thought forward- it may sound ridiculous- that the aircraft carrier  Melbourne  should go to Dili. I did so because I saw the operation of the Navy task force in Darwin after the catastrophe of Cyclone Tracy. I saw the magnificent work that the aircraft carrier  Melbourne  did within hours of arriving in Darwin when Darwin was an absolute wreck. Helicopters from HMAS  Melbourne  brought in food, materials and equipment. There was a continuous flow of helicopter transport operating there. It was magnificent. Within days the men of this ship had done a tremendous job. I do not think that it is too much to ask under the present circumstances. 
Here is our nearest neighbour, our little neighbour, a neighbour that is destitute, its people dying by the thousand, a nation to which we owe something. The least we can do is to put in a force such as that of HMAS  Melbourne.  We can do it, I believe, because the Indonesian Government has indicated that it is prepared to relent and prepared to accept assistance from Australia which on many other occasions, as  Senator Gietzelt  has said, has been offered by  Mr Peacock  and the Government and, has been refused. I see this as a quick way of overcoming the problem. Not only would the helicopters be bringing in food; they would use them to fly into the mountain region. Even though the weather is not too good now, it is improving. The helicopters can move in there. They can take in not only food but also medical teams. I believe that Australian Defence Force engineers can go in with bulldozers to improve the roads, and I also believe that Australia can open its heart, as it is beginning to do now, and provide agricultural equipment for the purpose of bringing about agricultural production once again and helping the Timorese people to get on their feet. 
I think that it has been most unfortunate that the Timorese have not been classified as refugees. The situation now is that all Timorese coming to Australia have to come in under the Numerical Multifactor Assessment System. Under that system they have to be classified, get points and so on to come to Australia. In my light- I believe it should be everyone's light - they are refugees and they should be assisted to come to Australia as quickly as possible. All in all, it is a very sorry and sad story. I commend the Government for the action that it has taken now. 
I commend the Press for the publicity that it is giving to this situation. I only hope that the Press can keep it up so that we can bring these people some relief. 
I wish to say a word of thanks to the Government, to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  and to the Australian Broadcasting Commission for what they have done today. It is a small thing in some respects, but it is a big thing to the people of the outback of Australia. For the first time in history the people of the outback- those in Alice Springs, Darwin and some other Territory centres- saw the Melbourne Cup. This was brought about by a unique situation. I forgot to mention my thanks to the Packer group because in approaches to representatives of the Packer group some weeks ago they indicated to me that they were prepared to insert the film of the running of the Melbourne Cup into the ABC line for the outback. So through discussions with the Packer group and  Mr Duckmanton  of the ABC, and with the assistance of the Minister a unique occasion was brought about. I rang some people in the outback tonight, and they are still talking about having seen the Melbourne Cup on television, something which everyone along the seaboard takes for granted, but something which in the outback is an important milestone. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) What is the situation in regard to applications under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 by Aboriginal organisations for land on a needs basis, within Northern Territory town boundaries. 
What funds have been expended in providing these leases with facilities such as electricity and water in each town centre; and 
What housing has been provided under this particular scheme within the various Northern Territory town boundaries. 

 Senator Chaney The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act does not provide for applications for land for Aboriginal organisations within town boundaries. The grant of leases to meet the needs of Aboriginal groups in towns is negotiated between the Northern Territory Government, the groups concerned and my Department. Special Purpose Leases over 14 areas have been issued to Aboriginal organisations to date: 9 in Alice Springs, 2 inKatherine and 3 in Darwin. Applications in relation to eleven other areas, including an extension to one of the areas in Darwin, are under consideration- 6 in Alice Springs, 2 in Tennant Creek, 1 in Elliott and 2 in Darwin. 
Expenditure on essential services within these leases in 1977-78 was: Alice Springs-$34,530, Katherine- $14,470, Darwin-$30,500. Expenditure in 1978-79 was: 
Katherine-$3 1,250, Darwin-$36,000. The Northern Territory Government has developed a program totalling $854,000 for essential services within Alice Springs town leases. Estimated expenditure in 1979-80 is $350,000. 
In Alice Springs 47 houses have been provided or are under construction on Aboriginal special purpose leases, and in Katherine 6 houses are under construction. My Department has also provided funds to various groups for camp improvements since 1976-77, and further funds ($92,000) are available in the 1979-80 program on a needs basis. 
-I present the following petition from 25 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That in order to: facilitate the development of the North of Australia; provide an all-weather rapid land transport system from north to south and vice versa; facilitate better defence of Northern Australia; provide improved transport for primary and mining products to southern markets; boost tourism; 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should: 
Urge that the Federal Government give favourable consideration to proceeding forthwith with the completion of the construction of the North-South railway from Alice Springs to Darwin as a matter of priority. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. I claim to have been misrepresented by  Senator Keeffe  from Townsville, who stated that my bosses were the mining companies and that, following demonstrations in Alice Springs, I made a statement on behalf of the mining companies and then hid from sight. That statement was of course absolute rot. The truth of the situation is that on the day on which a demonstration took place in Alice Springs I was present and spoke to the Aboriginal people and was with them for much of the time. I know many of them. They are my friends. I made no statement on behalf of the mining companies. There was no reason for me to do so, as they exert no pressure on me, nor are they my bosses, lt was most ridiculous to say that I was hiding but, in view of where the statement came from, I can understand it being made. 

 Senator KEEFFE (Queensland )-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that there was a resumption of hearings yesterday in Darwin before  Mr Justice  Toohey on the Kenbi Aboriginal land claim? Is he also aware that the Australian Fishing Industry Council, Northern Territory Branch, has made application to his Department for legal aid to obtain legal advice in lodging objections to this claim? Can he inform the Senate whether the application of the Fishing Industry Council has been approved? If not, in view of the currency of the hearings before  Mr Justice  Toohey, will he expedite consideration of the application. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the concern of commercial fishermen on Australia 's northern coast at Darwin and elsewhere, is it the intention of the Australian Government to bring about a 12-mile buffer zone as a protection for Australian fishermen now that the 200-mile fishing limit has been commenced? 
I present the following petition from 55 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Northern Territory of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That it is acknowledged that it is reasonable for major sporting organisations to conclude agreements with individual commercial television networks for sole telecasting rights. 
However, one of the functions which the ABC should be expected to perform on behalf of the Government is a service to enable all areas of Australia to receive telecasts of major events, irrespective of whether some parts of the country are serviced on that particular event by a commercial network. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members should: 
Direct that the ABC should: 
Give priority to its role as a community service organisation in preference to its commercial interests. 
On behalf of the Government, provide a community service to those areas not serviced by a commercial network so that direct telecasts of major events are transmitted to all Australians. 
Petition received and read. 
I refer to the statement by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs of 13 November 1979 referring to the examination of the land rights legislation. I ask the Minister: What time does he consider is necessary to examine aspects of the legislation as outlined in his statement? Will consideration be given also to representations not yet lodged with him or his Department? 
I present the following petition from 28 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That in order to: facilitate the development of the North of Australia provide an all-weather rapid land transport system from north to south and vice versa facilitate better defence of Northern Australia provide improved transport for primary and mining products to southern markets boost tourism 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Urge that the Federal Government give favourable consideration to proceeding forthwith with the completion of the construction of the North/South railway from Alice Springs to Darwin as a matter of priority. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The honourable senator from Queensland has a most odd mind. The point that I am making is one that I have made before. I wish to refer to a debate that took place in the Senate on 4 April 1 979 when consultation between the Aboriginal people and mining companies was being discussed. 
I said then and I say again that the land rights Bill introduced by the Labor Government contained absolutely no provision for negotiation and consultation between the Aboriginal people and Ranger uranium mines. This Government has provided for that consultation in law and that consultation has taken place. Yet the Labor Party has the hide or the audacity to criticise that, but in its original Bill it left the Aboriginal people for dead in relation to this particular aspect. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer the Minister to the reports and the considerable discussion which has taken place in the past week in regard to the plight of the Timorese people and to the fact that representations are being made to the Indonesian Government regarding offers of food supplies, transport, et cetera, and arrangements for contributions to alleviate the appalling conditions in Timor. Can the Minister advise the Senate what the present situation is in that regard? What now is the Indonesian Government's attitude to Australia's participating in assisting the Timorese people in their plight? Will the Government request the Indonesian Government to receive a delegation of Australian parliamentarians whose aim would be to bring further relief to the people of East Timor by way of supplying urgently required food and materials to rehabilitate the island? 
The Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill is the fourth Bill dealing with Aboriginal land rights in the Northern Territory, and is part of a continuing stream of such legislation as adjustments to the principal Act are required. One does not buy an expensive piece of equipment costing many thousands of dollars and then just let it run and run. As it is running in it needs adjustment. I suggest that the legislation relating to Aboriginal land rights in the Northern Territory is an apt analogy because as time goes by adjustments to it are required. We are seeing adjustments now, and in the future we will see more of them. I said that this Bill is part of a stream of legislation. I did not want to indicate that there will be a vast amount, but of necessity there will be adjustments to the legislation purely for the administration and good welfare of the people of the Northern Territory. 
I think that  Senator Gietzelt  has either misunderstood or distorted what this legislation is all about. Perhaps too he is not prepared to recognise what this Government and the Northern Territory Government are doing for the Aboriginal people. He tends to draw a picture of this Government 's being browbeaten by big corporations. He has suggested that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  would listen to outside organisations and that he is not doing justice to his job, which I took as a criticism of the Minister. That is far from being the case. I think that the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is doing a tremendous job and I have said so previously. It is a most difficult job and I think that of all the Ministers who have worked in this sphere he has no peer.  Senator Gietzelt  talked about Aboriginal people being browbeaten and driven off their land. I do not think he was particularly clear about where he was referring to. Was he referring to Australia generally or to the Northern Territory in particular? If he was referring to the Northern Territory, I can assure him that he was way off track. 
Before land rights became the issue that they are now- and we have what we might call very forward legislation which is emotive and the subject of much discussion- Aboriginal land rights legislation was introduced in the Northern Territory by that much criticised legislature the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, which in those days was the Legislative Council. When I was a member of it in the early 1960s, for the first time legislation was brought in that recognised the right of Aboriginal people to own land. I think that that piece of legislation introduced in the Northern Territory Legislative Council, as it then was, was the first such piece of legislation in Australia. Admittedly when we look at it now it appears to be a rather small piece of legislation. Perhaps it was a bit crude, but at least it was a beginning, and many applications were made under it. Those applications were halted by an administrative action of the previous Government when  Mr Whitlam  was Prime Minister. Then the inquiry into Aboriginal land came about and we saw the Federal Act. I emphasise that the people of the Northern Territory fully support Aboriginal land rights, but they believe that there needs to be some adjustment. There are some problems, but the actual principle of Aboriginal people owning land goes way back and is well supported. 
One must also look at the present Northern Territory Government which is apt to be criticised in the Senate. I would say it is criticised without reason. The criticisms are one-eyed, distorted and unfair. Only a few days ago the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory was tangling with the Premier of Queensland over a statement that had been made regarding Aboriginal land rights in the Northern Territory. Regardless of what the tangle was about, part of a statement by the Chief Minister,  Mr Paul  Everingham, stated that 'despite the utterances of the Queensland Premier, northern development and Aboriginal land rights are not incompatible'. He was talking of the Northern Territory. He continued and said that 'the Nabarlek and Ranger uranium mines are being developed on Aboriginal land. The bauxite mine at Gove and the rich manganese deposits on Groote Eylandt are both on Aboriginal land and they have been in production for years'. He is saying that there is the ability for Aboriginal land rights in the Northern Territory to go alongside development. Of course, he is indicating quite clearly that he, his party and his Government in the Northern Territory support that. I draw  Senator Gietzelt  's attention to that. He did not criticise that aspect, but he did mention Western Australia and possible legislation there in regard to elections and the right to vote. That principle was introduced by the Federal Government seven years ago, when Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory were given the right to vote. They had to apply to have their names placed on the electoral roll, but once their name was on the roll it was on the roll for keeps- it was there permanently- and they had to vote in elections. But they had to volunteer to have their names placed on the roll. 
This week legislation is before the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly which, if it is passed in its present form, will place Aboriginal people on a par with other people in the Northern Territory. All of the Aboriginal people will be expected to vote, as are other people. Perhaps that is a contentious issue, but at least the move is progressive and it will indicate to all that the people of the Northern Territory are on a par. I say that because many people who look in on the Territory are too prone to criticise what they see; they are not prepared to stop and listen to see just what is likely to happen. But, under those circumstances, they must admit that all people are on a par in the Northern Territory. 
There is nothing sinister about this legislation.  Senator Gietzelt  looks upon it as instituting more control by government, more control by the Minister; as taking independence away from Aboriginal people; as a retreat; and so on. That is not the case. People who look at the legislation must appreciate what it is all about. Firstly, it is about financial assistance. This legislation in its present form seeks to provide financial assistance to people, but they must pass a type of means test before they are able to get financial assistance to pay for legal assistance. One could hardly imagine a large mining corporation or a large company going through a means test to see whether it can get financial assistance. I will speak on that matter a little later because I disagree with some aspects of it. 
The legislation also allows, I take it, the land councils to borrow from the Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account. I understand that that Trust Account will repay to the Government moneys which have been expended in the administration of the land council system. That is quite in order. But, at the same time, I am a little wary of a situation which might arise. As we well know, the federal Act allows 30 per cent of royalties to go to the traditional land owners, 40 per cent to the land council and 30 per cent, I think it is, to the Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account. It is my hope that the royalties, which will be absolutely immense, eventually will come down through the system and be of benefit to Aboriginal people. I do not see the taxpayer of Australia supporting the Aboriginal people in the future to the degree that he supports them now, provided that the royalties are sufficient for that to be the case. I see more royalties going to the benefit of Aboriginal people, for their health, schooling, housing and so on. I see a situation similar to that of the Fijian land foundation. In Fiji, all the moneys derived from the lease of land by the Fijians to large companies for tourism goes into that foundation, where it is spent on the people. 
I think that at present there is a danger of too much money being spent within the land council system. I think that the land councils have to be careful about that. I am not saying that they should not do the things they are doing; all I am saying is that I think that they should husband their money wisely to ensure that not too much money is spent in the administration of the land council system. I often wonder whether it is necessary to hire professional people who charge extremely large sums of money for their services. One remembers the case of a person who came from a State and took a large amount of money away with him. I wonder whether that was completely warranted. Nevertheless, as I said before, I am not against the proposed amendment; I am just saying that I expect the moneys which are spent within the land council system to be spent wisely. We know full well that a lot of money has been spent in the land council system, with the result that the land councils have run short of money and money has had to be found elsewhere to put into the system to keep the land councils going. Well and good; they have to be kept going. 
I note that the land councils will be required to produce annual reports. I support that principle. I do not see that as standing over or controlling land councils; I see it as a measure to protect the Aboriginal people. I would like to see that principle of protecting the Aboriginal people applied on a much wider basis and not just to the land council system. I have mentioned to many people, including the Minister, my concern about what is happening today in many of the Aboriginal co-operatives and businesses in the Territory. Thousands of dollars-not just $1,000, $2,000 or $3,000, but running into tens of thousands of dollars- are being knocked off and taken out of those Aboriginal businesses. The people doing that are getting away scot-free. But that is another matter which I will deal with on a later date. I will seek to bring about the provision of assistance for those Aboriginal businesses, to bring about more safeguards, to ensure that they are not robbed, as they are being robbed today and have been robbed before. I look upon the measure requiring land councils to produce annual reports with audited financial statements to the Federal Minister as just a safety precaution. It is right, too, that those annual reports and financial statements should go to the Minister because, after all, the Minister is the person reponsible in law for the welfare of Aboriginal people. 
I return to the subject of the provision of financial assistance. I do not believe that the Government has gone far enough in this regard. I say that as one of the two senators from the Northern Territory. I believe that it is our role to ensure, as much as we can, that the actions and policies of the Federal Government are fair to all people. I believe- I think it is the Government's policy, too- that people must be treated as equals, no matter where they are in Australia. Let us briefly go over the history of what has happened in the few years since the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act was brought in. Previously the small people- I am talking now about the other people who have an interest in the land- faced great difficulties in land rights hearings. They had great difficulty because they are not big people. They are not very financial and do not have many resources behind them. Because of this they were unable to get a Queen's Counsel or such a person who requires huge fees to represent them in the hearings. 
We have had many representations over the years. I refer in particular to the Borroloola land claim and to the Northern Territory fishing inquiry. The commercial fishermen in the Territory by and large are small battlers trying to make their way. At the same time they are endeavouring to get their word in too. I think that they have every right to do so. As the Government has recognised,  Mr Justice  Toohey pointed out in connection with the Borroloola land claim that non-Aboriginal groups which had financial hardship were unable to retain adequate legal counsel to present their case. This occurred also in the Ayers Rock hearing. A large number of land claims still has to be dealt with. A lot of these will involve regions much closer to areas which have been developed for various reasons. There may be claims concerning unalienated land. Various matters will have to be cleared up. That is why I am gratified that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has appointed a person to look into the various problems. Nevertheless, people will want to have their say more and more. 
One must admit that the battlers, the people working for themselves or those who are part of a small concern, have very few financial resources and representation at land claims involves an unusual business expense when compared with the position of their brothers on the eastern coastline and in the cities who do not have to suffer such an expense. The small business people in the Northern Territory have to battle along for their own survival. At the same time these people are subject to a means test. I am against the means test. I believe that if more and more hearings are to occur a means test should not be imposed. These battlers should be able to get legal assistance for this unusual business expense without being subject to a means test. I have had much correspondence from people at Ayers Rock. They bitterly resent the thought of some government bureaucrat going through their books and judging whether they should be given financial asistance to allow them to be represented at land claims. I support the Bill. I certainly support the principle of giving financial assistance for legal aid, but I do not support the thought of a means test for the reasons I have just given. 
Many matters need looking at. I wish to look a little further at the land rights system. It is important that non-Aboriginal people who put a different viewpoint at a land rights hearing will be heard by the land commissioner. It seems from section 50 of the principal legislation that the land commissioner notes these submissionsperhaps I am wrong but I think I am right- but does not take them into account in his recommendations. This puts the person who wishes to get over his point of view in a very peculiar situation. I refer to the transcript of proceedings concerning Borroloola taken before  His  Honour,  Mr Justice  Toohey, at Darwin on Tuesday 22 August. The hearing ran for quite a few weeks. It is very interesting to look at the summing up and the remarks that have been made by the various legal people who appeared before  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Toohey. It is not my intention to dwell on those remarks but one wonders whether the legislation needs some tightening up to ensure that everybody is on an equal footing at these hearings. 
Much has been said in the last few weeks about pastoral leases in the Northern Territory. Very many charges have been made regarding the situation. Quite a few Aboriginal people feel that some of the moves represent an attack on them and that their pastoral leases are to be taken from them. Of course, this is completely refuted by the Northern Territory Government. Statements by the Honourable Marshall Perron, who is the Treasurer and Minister for Lands in the Northern Territory, show that the notice given to the Wattie Creek people was also given to probably some 50 or 60 cattle stations in the Northern Territory. The notice indicated that certain things were required under the terms of cattle leases. Anyway, the whole thing was a storm in a teacup. The difficulties have been overcome, and the Wattie Creek people now know that they are in no danger of losing their lease. In fact, there has to be quite a procedure before a person loses a pastoral lease in the Northern Territory. It is certainly not done by a mere inspection or a piece of paper stating that this or that has to be done or the person will lose his lease. The situation is far from that. One of the most controversial situations in the Territory- it is unusual when one looks at the principle of land rights- is the fact that if an Aboriginal organisation purchases a pastoral lease, that land, through a process, can be claimed as Aboriginal land. 
As I have indicated previously, I support strongly the principle of Aboriginal people owning land and the operation of the freehold system as it now exists under the Act. But I wonder why it is necessary that land purchased as a pastoral lease should ultimately become subject to freehold title. I think that, having become freehold land under the Federal Act, the covenants to the lease would no longer exist. In turn, since the covenants would not exist, all of the safeguards and other requirements attaching to pastoral leases perhaps may not be met. 
The other matter that concerns me, as one who is from the Northern Territory looking at the matter overall to see where the Northern Territory is going and what the future of its Government will be, is that if there is no restriction, especially if royalties become large, a lot of money will be available to Aboriginals. This could well lead to the purchase of more and more cattle stations which then could be converted to Aboriginal freehold land. I repeat that that land would come under the operation of the Federal legislation, not that of the Northern Territory Government. Therefore, I ask: Where is the Northern Territory and its Government going? Since pastoral leases are purchased as business enterprises- I support fully the purchase by Aboriginal people of pastoral leases- they should be run as cattle stations and pastoral leases and not converted to Aboriginal freehold land. There is much opposition to that happening in the Northern Territory and it is the subject of a great deal of emotion. There could even be a clash between traditional owners claiming land under the Art and Aboriginal people who have purchased cattle stations. Of necessity, they may not be the same people. 
The Government Whip will be pleased to hear that I have almost concluded my remarks. Unfortunately, even among the Aboriginal people there now seems to be a difference of opinion regarding this matter. I would have liked to incorporate a petition which was sent down to me in the last two days.  (Quorum formed).  It is a pity that the Vocadex copy of the petition sent to me is not clear enough to permit its incorporation in Hansard. The first petition, which was addressed to  Mr Paul  Everingham, Chief Minister of the Northern Territory, is from Utopia Station. It was not sent to me by him. It came to me from the Aboriginal people, and will be very interesting to quite a few people because Utopia Station has been in the news. Many people have cried wolf about the situation there. The petition was signed by Jimmy Kunoth and has some 24 signatures affixed. It reads: 
Dear  Mr Everingham, 
We, the Aboriginal People, of Utopia Station in Central Australia, would like to be the same as the white people of Central Australia in the way we run our Station. 
We want to keep our Station as a Pastoral Lease, and would like any assistance your Government people can give us to do this. 
We want our people to be free of trouble. 
The insinuation there, I think, is once again that, as I am always complaining, too many people are speaking on behalf of the Aborigines. I would add that a large Aboriginal gathering took place a few days ago. I doubt if any advisors were present. The next petition has 142 signatures and is from Ti Tree Station. Once again, it reads: 
Dear  Mr Everingham, 
We, the people of Ti Tree Cattle Station would like to tell you that we think that this place should be kept and run as a Cattle Station for only us Aboriginal people. 
That is why the Government bought it for us. 
We now have a good manager, and this is helping us to sell our cattle and get good prices for them. 
Now that Liquor Laws have been changed stopping a lot of  take-aways  from  Roadhouses  we won't have as much trouble as before and now we don't want anybody causing worry with our people about taking this country away from us. 
The signatures follow. The suggestion is that at least that group believes that its land should remain within the cattle station system and not, of necessity, be changed so as to become Aboriginal land. There has been criticism of this Government and of the Government of the Northern Territory concerning land not being given to the Aboriginal people. I point out that the four cattle stations purchased in central Australia were purchased not by the previous Labor Government but by the coalition Government as follows: Willowra was purchased in 1972, Utopia in March 1976, Mt Allan in June 1976 and Ti Tree in July 1 976. Those four cattle stations have been purchased by this Government and I would say that the people on them have done a very good job. 
Once again, I wish to answer the criticisms made by the Australian Labor Party, which is always saying how good it is and what an interest it takes in the Aboriginal people. Last week  Senator Keeffe  tabled all sorts of papers relating to consultations at Ranger and endeavoured to show that this Government and the Government of the Northern Territory have done nothing. 
The Minister representing the Minister for Transport will recall that last year a delegation from the Northern Territory inquired of the Minister for Transport and later the General Manager of the Australian National Line about the future of the  Darwin Trader.  Discussions between the Federal Government and the Northern Territory Government concerning the future of this vessel, which plays an important role in the supply of goods from the eastern States to the Port of Darwin, followed the delegation's representations. A report in the media now suggests that because of a breakdown in the arrangements for the supply of Australian cement as cargo, problems exist once again in regard to the future of this supply vessel servicing Darwin. Is the Minister in a position to advise on the matter? What is the Government's attitude to the continuity of operation of the  Darwin Trader  in its present role? 
I present the following  petition from 28 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of the Northern Territory of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That it is acknowledged that it is reasonable for major sporting organisations to conclude agreements with individual commercial television networks for sole telecasting rights. 
However, one of the functions which the ABC should be expected to perform on behalf of the Government is a service to enable all areas of Australia to receive telecasts of major events, irrespective of whether some parts of the country are serviced on that particular event by a commercial network. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members should: 
Direct that the ABC should: 
Give priority to its role as a community service organisation in preference to its commercial interests. 
On behalf of the Government, provide a community service to those areas not serviced by a commercial network so that direct telecasts of major events are transmitted to all Australians. 
Petition received and read. 
I wish to speak to Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1979-80.  (Quorum formed).  The proposed amendments which have been circulated by the Opposition cannot be justified or supported. It is not my intention to speak about them, as they do not face up to reality. One must remember that when this Government came to power the inflation rate was running at nearly 18 per cent per annum. Under this Government it was reduced to some eight per cent per annum and now it is running at about nine per cent per annum. Not so long ago Australia's inflation rate was one of the highest of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries; now it is one of the lowest. We can think ourselves fortunate when we look at the financial troubles which the United States of America and Great Britain are in today. We could easily have been in a similar situation had we still been in the hands of the previous Labor Government. The rapidly increasing interest rates, going hand in hand with the high inflation rates, of America and Great Britain must be causing absolute turmoil in those countries. We are a very lucky country. 
The Treasurer,  Mr John  Howard, has indicated that on 1 December people's takehome pay will be increased. We realise that that follows a promise made in the last Budget. From that date, for instance, a taxpayer with a dependent spouse and receiving average weekly earnings will receive an extra $4.45 a week. Taxpayers right through the income scale will receive an increase. The abolition of the income tax surcharge will mean that the Government will have restored to all wage and salary earners the standard rate of tax introduced in the 1977-78 Budget. The standard rate of tax will apply to some 90 per cent of personal income taxpayers. I believe that the Government has done the right thing by everyone. As I have said before, on 1 December the Australian wage earner will feel the full effect of the changes I have mentioned. 
This evening I wish to speak on two subjectsthe Northern Territory and Timor. The subject of Timor has been raised in the Senate on numerous occasions, but particularly in the last fortnight. I have been concerned- that is to say the least- at the situation that has developed there, particularly in the last week. I wonder whether more can be done for the unfortunate people of Timor. As I indicated in the Senate last week, I have asked the Government to take certain measures to bring relief to the Timorese.  Senator Carrick,  representing the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  has indicated the various things that Australia is doing. He referred to taxation concessions, an allocation of $2m to the Red Cross, assistance to the Australian Development Assistance Bureau and so on. This will alleviate the problem to some degree, but the Timorese need immediate attention. I will read a telex which I have received from a barge operator in Darwin. He refers to food aid to the East Timorese and states: 
Press statement Thursday 15th stated that maize was available for shipment out of the east coast but no ship was available. 
As a result there will be no shipment until January when Timor wet season will make internal transport difficult. 
He goes on to say: 
We understand Red Cross have requested deliveries to south coast of Timor where no port facilities are available. Therefore a foreign coasting vessel would be completely unsuitable and could only deliver to Dili. 
The telex goes on to advise: 
There are 4 landing craft working out of Darwin all Australian owned and manned and very short of work. 
That means that the vessels are available immediately. The telex continues: 
These vessels are ideally suited for working onto beaches or into Dili, and can carry 4 wheel drive trucks for distribution purposes. 
Also, as I have indicated before, 600 tonnes of rice from Kununurra is available in Darwin at present but it is likely to be shifted to the southern pan of Australia in the next 10 days. This barge operator has suggested a very good way of getting immediate aid to East Timor. These barges can go from Darwin to Dili, or to the beaches along the island, and deliver much needed food in the form of rice within 36 hours. By using the equipment that the barges could carry, rice could be delivered within two or three days to the very isolated people who are suffering from famine. 
We must realise that the wet weather is coming. If we dilly dally around for too long we will not be able to get support into Timor. The roads will be out. They are in poor condition. We have only a few weeks in which to deliver the much needed food. We know full well, from reports that we have received, that the people who are in the most desperate situation, those who are starving, are in the mountains. I do not have to repeat myself, but if we do not move quickly and get supplies into Timor the wet weather will arrive and these people will continue to be in poor circumstances without food during the mon.soonal months. Goodness knows how many more will die. No one knows how many have died. The guess is that the figure is from 100,000 to 200,000. I urge that everyone who has some say in the matter should move quickly and ensure that the barges are used as an emergency means of getting this rice in. The rice can be in the mouths of the people in Timor within 72 hours. 
Timorese on the mainland of Australia are greatly concerned because of the fragmentation of families. Many Timorese have been able to get into Australia. I forget the exact number. It is probably some 2,000; perhaps not as many. The Timorese wish to be re-united. We are not treating the Timorese as refugees although I think we should. We are treating them as migrants. They have to go through the system laid down by Indonesia. So, they are brought in through that scheme.  (Quorum formed).  I did say I would be brief tonight. I am trying to be brief but two quorums have been called on me already and that means the loss of eight minutes or so. As I was saying, there is concern amongst the Timorese people because families have been fragmented. I and other members of the Senate have indicated in the last week or two that under the Indonesian-Australian scheme only some 280 people have come to Australia instead of 600. For many reasons we will never reach that figure. People have disappeared. People have died. A re-organisation is required now. I would only hope that Indonesia, now that it is showing a change of heart, will allow more people to come to Australia. 
-I understand from the arrangements that 600 people would come to Australia in the first group. Now, only 280 have come out. I have a letter from  Mr J.  Costa-Alves of Darwin which gives an indication of how the Timorese people feel. In the letter to me he discusses the problems of getting his brother Jose out.  His  brother Roberto, who is a resident of Darwin, is endeavouring to obtain permission for Jose and one other sister, Zelia, to come to Australia. The letter is well worth listening to. He wrote: 
As you will be aware, the Indonesian Government has decided that residents of East Timor not opting for the Indonesian nationality would no longer be eligible to maintain or gain employment or carry out any sort of commercial activity. This policy came into force on the 1 st August ultimo, according to my sources, and as many others, Jose Aravjo was affected by it. Until then he had been employed by the Indonesian Civil Aviation authority as airport manager in Dili. Another one affected by this decision was Henrique Simoes who lost his job with the Department of Finance and whose application to immigrate to Australia also did not meet the requirements laid down by the so called 'family reunion 'policy. 
The reference is to Australia's policy. The letter continues: 
Indeed that is a designation that is causing a certain amount of confusion. The Timorese wonder whether, when the Government decided on the present criterion, they based it on an Anglo-Saxon concept of 'family ' whereby family ties do not appear to be as binding and complex as they are in the more traditional ways of these people. 
The reference there is to the Timorese. The letter continues: 
Time and time again I have the question put to me as to whether, in accordance to Australian custom, once married a person is expected to consider as family the spouse and children solely, forsaking all other relatives. They find it extremely difficult to relate the 'family reunion' bit to the Government's attitude of consistently refusing to allow precisely that. 
That is a reference to Australia's immigration policy, which applies to all peoples of the world other than refugees. I read further: 
And knowing that some of these parents, brothers and sisters they want to bring over are actually starving to death only tends to augment their perplexity and compound the feeling that the plight of their relatives appears to have been forgotten. A great emphasis is currently being placed on the tragic circumstances of refugees in other areas to the detriment, it would appear, of the ones at our doorstep. If consideration is to be given to the fact that the Timorese have always regarded the Australian people in high esteem, as friends to be trusted and protected, as vastly demonstrated during W.W.2 when many were tortured and killed by the Japanese because of their loyalty to the Australian commandos, one can not help but sympathise with the resentment that is beginning to surface. The feeling is that if people who may have shot at Australian soldiers or were at one stage or another considered the enemy, are now being allowed into the country by merely knocking on the door, others who actually sacrificed their own to protect Australian lives should be entitled to at least the same amount of courtesy. 
All I can do is once again ask: Can we please do something for the Timorese to whom we owe so much and who are our very close neighbours? 
I wish now to refer briefly to matters which relate to the Northern Territory.  (Quorum formed).  I wish to refer specifically to what has happened in the Territory since the transfer of powers occurred. We are not seeing in the Territory an upsurge in development and in all matters relating to finance. I believe that the arrangements made between the Federal Government and the Northern Territory Government in respect of its first Budget have been very good. The sum of $442m has been handed over as a one-line Budget appropriation. This has given the emphasis to development in the Northern Territory. It was very interesting a fortnight ago to take part at Broome in the Northern Australian Seminar. Those who attended included  Sir Charles  Court,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Treasurer of the Northern Territory, and some 200 other people who gathered there to discuss the development of the North. The Treasurer of the Northern Territory, the  Hon.  Marshall Perron, a very able young person, delivered a very interesting paper. He informed one and all of certain very interesting facts, including the fact that the Northern Territory's mineral production has earned $249m, tourism some $85m and its cattle industry $70m and that fisheries production has continued to grow. He went on to say that the capital commitment in the Northern Territory for major projects is today running at around $600m, double that of South Australia and six times that of Tasmania. I suggest that any State or Territory which can produce such figures must have an economy that is running very strongly. Also, it should be noted that the Territory's population is increasing at a faster rate than that of any other part of Australia. I seek leave to have that statement incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 

Perhaps the keynote of the statement is to be found in its final sentence, which reads: 
Scope for regional economic growth is limited only by the imagination of those involved. 
The Northern Territory Government has that degree of imagination and in the Territory things are booming. When one talks of things booming one thinks of the uranium industry. Some 1,250 people employed in the Jabiru area are directly involved in the building of that town and the development of mining. That does not include the people who are servicing that group. When one considers the matter carefully and recalls the servicing that is required to support 1,250 people in the front line- mining, building towns and so on- one can multiply that figure by six. That is similar to the scale that was used in speaking of the army- for every man at the front there were six behind him. The result is that there is now considerable employment in the Northern Territory. Industries are booming. There is no room for depression. The Northern Territory Government, for instance, has brought in a home sales scheme which is very interesting. The lowest interest rate under it is some 4 per cent. In this way the Northern Territory Government is encouraging movement to the Northern Territory and is encouraging home building. Also of note are the road works that are proceeding. The Darwin port development is to be on such a scale that by 1 990 Darwin is expected to be a major port. Private enterprise is moving also. The Peko organisation is spending $35m at Tennant Creek in rehabilitating the smelter and the mine at Warrego. One could go on and on. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  also is creating employment for Aborigines through the Community Development Employment Project. The Aboriginal people certainly applaud this Project. It is their wish that they be given work rather than receive, as they call it, 'sit down money'. This community development in the Aboriginal settlements will provide additional employment there. The Northern Territory is booming. It is boom time now and there is no reason whatsoever for anyone to feel that the Territory is in a depression. 
As a member of the Senate Estimates Committee C, I wish to refer briefly to the  Hansard  report of proceedings of 24 September.  Mr Searle,  First Assistant Director-General, Quarantine Division, Department of Health, appeared before the Committee. He is a dedicated person and has done much for the security and surveillance of the North. During the discussion regarding the work that was carried on, he indicated that he could not say at that stage that his men, in an emergency, could go on to Aboriginal land at a moment's notice. That is not what land rights is all about. This situation is extremely dangerous for the welfare of Australia. The matter has been referred to  Senator Chaney  who is sure that the lack of legislation was a mistake. It has recently been found that the legislation does not cover officials of the Commonwealth. Action will be taken to ensure that the matter is corrected so that  Mr Searle  and all those other men who protect Australia through our quarantine laws, in the case of an emergency, can go to any part of Australia whether or not it be Aboriginal land.  (Quorum formed). 
On the same day, 24 September,  Dr Travers,  First Assistant Director-General, Medical Services Division, Department of Health, also appeared before the Committee. He is another person who has a lot of knowledge and experience in the North. When discussing uranium mining in Rum Jungle some 25 years ago, information was given that the Department of Health had checked many miners in those days to see whether the mining of uranium had had any effect on them. The check indicated that information relating to this situation possibly existed in archives. Despite the fact that four quorums have been called in the 30 minutes that I have been speaking, I will not hold the Senate. I have a letter dated 2 November from the Minister for Health,  Mr Ralph  Hunt, who described the search of the archives for results of examinations of people who worked in the uranium field and how he sees the situation at present. It is a very heartening letter because it shows that if proper safeguards are implemented in the mining of uranium, there is no doubt in my mind, having considered the information that is available, that uranium mining can take place without ill effects on those employed in the industry. I seek leave to have this letter incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

Minister for Health Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T. 2600  2 November 1979 
My dear  Senator, 
I refer to the question you asked in the Senate on 26 September  191 9- (Hansard,  page 9SS), a similar question asked by you at the Senate Estimates Committee and your letter of 5 October 1979 concerning the examination of uranium miners who worked at Rum Jungle some 25 years ago. 
You will recall that officers of my Department undertook to search archives for results of examinations of uranium in urine of these miners and this has now been done. Samples of urine from the miners were sent on a monthly basis to the School of Public Heath and Tropical Medicine, University of Sydney for estimation of the uranium and the archival records of the School have been examined. 
From 1956 until 1968 there were examinations of urine of 103 different individuals and the total number of examinations ran, as you would expect, into many hundreds. A careful scrutiny of all examinations done has shown that on no occasion the School expressed any concern on the uranium found in the urine specimen although, on some occasions because of what appeared to be contamination of the containers and wide variations in readings in a particular individual from month to month, some queries were raised. These appear to have been satisfactorily resolved when the next specimen was submitted for that individual. 
No addresses for any of these individuals were given as the samples were submitted by the employing authority, Territory Enterprises Pty Ltd, to the then Department of Health in Darwin and, as previously stated, forwarded by them to the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine. Oversight of the results was undertaken by the Occupational Health Section of the School and some copies of their reports back to the employing authority were also forwarded to Central Office. It has not been possible to locate these in the Canberra archives. 
As mentioned in the Depanment's reply to the Secretary, Senate Estimates Committee C, the Department of Health in the Northern Territory has some further results of tests conducted up until January 1971 but again these do not show any abnormalities. Because of the absence of the original addresses of the miners it would be almost impossible at this time to undertake further health checks of them. To do so would involve going back through the records of the employing authority and then to search the electoral roll and registration of deaths in all States in Australia. This epidemiological research would probably take at least six months and occupy the full time of an officer in the duties. The information likely to be achieved from such research would not now prove of any significance as in the 23 years since uranium mining began in 1 956 a great deal more scientific knowledge has accumulated on the ways of measuring exposure of miners to radiation hazards. 
The Australian Radiation Laboratory of my Department has developed a personal dose meter which is now being worn by all uranium miners in the Northern Territory and the results of these are read each month. This gives a more accurate determination of the exposure and will prove to be a greater safeguard in protecting the health of all those employed in the industry. The Laboratory is also developing a further type of device which will be worn by the miners and which will give a more accurate result of exposure to radon gas which is the main concern in determining whether an individual has had over exposure. It is hoped that these devices will be available early in 1 980. 
All the results obtained up to September from the miners working in the Alligator Rivers Region of the Northern Territory have been within normal limits and I can assure you that if any further tests show that the limits set out in the Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores are being approached, urgent advice will be provided to the employing authority and to the Department of Health in the Northern Territory. 
Kind regards, 
Yours sincerely, RALPH J. HUNT 

 Senator B. F. Kilgariff, Parliament House, CANBERRA, A.C.T. 2600 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Last week a report indicated that maize was available from the east coast of Australia for Timor but that no ships were available until January. Having in mind that the monsoonal season is rapidly approaching and that soon it will be well nigh impossible to get into the Timor mountains where famine is reported to be at its worst, will the Government press for the immediate consignment of rice in the DarwinKununurra area from which four barges now in Darwin can deliver food in the space of 36 hours along the coast of Timor and distribute it by using the barges' own four-wheel-drive vehicles and forklifts, et cetera? 
A few moments ago  Senator Cavanagh  of South Australia commented on a speech I made in this chamber last night. From the way in which he represented my speech, I think there is some misunderstanding. Uranium mining in the Northern Territory is not new; uranium was mined in the Northern Territory back in the 1950s. For very many years it was mined by the open cut and the deep mining methods. It was reported in the hearings of Senate Estimates Committee C that reports on that mining were in the archives. Those reports have now been released. They indicate very conclusively that the people who mined uranium by the open cut and tunnelling method some 25 to 30 years ago in the Northern Territory have suffered no ill effects and the people are still working in their various trades in the Northern Territory. 

 Senator Cavanagh said that honourable senators on this side of the chamber are heartless. It is not a case of the Government parties looking for dollars; what uranium mining in the Northern Territory means is jobs. At the moment, employment opportunities are building up. Some 1,250 people are employed and that number will go up to 5,000 plus. I point out to the honourable senator opposite that the minimum wage for people working in the field is some $480 a week. I suggest that uranium mining is part of the future for the Northern Territory and for Australia. It will bring about employment and it will provide energy supplies. The safeguards which are being observed now by the authorities and which honourable senators opposite seem to decry are such that the Department of Health will continue to oversee the standards of health of the workers in those mines. 
In closing I mention this: I believe I heard in the media in the past few days that the unions have conducted an inquiry into the safeguards and the feasibility of workers mining in the uranium industry. My recollection is that the person who has carried out that inquiry on behalf of the unions has said: 'Yes, there is every reason for workers to work in the uranium industry. It has been proved safe for them to do so'. All that was asked was that certain safeguards be observed, which naturally they will, and that there will be consultation between the workers and the authorities who are working the uranium mines. The criticisms which have been made this evening do not wash. 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  I think it is reasonable that the debate should go from one side of the chamber to the other. Very briefly, I congratulate the Federal Government and the Australian National Railways for the work they are doing on the standard gauge line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. The line is well under way and will be in Alice Springs by next October, a year earlier than planned. The accelerated funding from the Federal Government will make it possible to bring about the completion of the project. I support  Senator Don  Jessop in his bid to get the standard gauge line from Crystal Brook to Adelaide because this will be the completion of the overall project which, without a change of gauge from Alice Springs to Adelaide, will bring about the movement of stock and freight without a break; and I think that is a very good thing. As far as the road from Port Augusta to Alice Springs and now to the Northern Territory border is concerned, I congratulate the Federal Government and the South Australian Government for having made a very firm commitment to the completion of this project; and there is no doubt that we will see the completion of it over the next few years. In the next few weeks we will see the result of a survey being done by the Federal Government and the Northern Territory Government of the extension of the standard gauge line from Alice Springs to Darwin. I hope that the feasibility study will recommend that the corridor be protected and that a survey take place so that in the next few years, under this Federal Government, we will see the line completed from Port Augusta to Darwin. 
It has been said that honourable senators this side of the chamber have been responsible for the debate going on until almost 3 a.m. The only remark I have to make about that is that the Estimates committees sat some weeks ago when all the questions relating to the various departments were asked. It now seems that  Senator McLaren  wishes to put his own questions. I can only suggest, if he wants to put these individual questions, that he should have joined other honourable senators on the Estimates committees rather than traipsing overseas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) What is the present situation in relation to the upgrading of the airport terminals at Darwin and Alice Springs to provide a reasonable standard of service, in view of reports that tourism in the Northern Territory has increased by some 30 per cent in the last two years and that the two main airport terminals are hard pressed to handle the movement of travellers. 
What is the timetable for any planned upgrading of the terminals. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 November 1 979: 
What action is proposed to initiate financial grants, as isolation subsidies, to small outback airlines, particularly in the north, comparable to the assistance granted to Tasmania because of its isolation from the Australian mainland, to reduce costs of freight and air fares. 
I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Northern Territory of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That it is acknowledged that it is reasonable for major sporting organisations to conclude agreements with individual commercial television networks for sole telecasting rights. 
However, one of the functions which the ABC should be expected to perform on behalf of the Government is a service to enable all areas of Australia to receive telecasts of major events, irrespective of whether some parts of the country are serviced on that particular event by a commercial network. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members should: 
Direct that the ABC should: 
Give priority to its role as a community service organisation in preference to its commercial interests. On behalf of the Government, provide a community service to those areas not serviced by a commercial network so that direct telecasts of major events are transmitted to all Australians. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Northern Territory of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the natural resources of Australia and in particular the uranium deposits of the Northern Territory should be exploited by companies which have substantial Australian interests so that the benefits accrue to all Australians. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members should: 
In the event of a decision to sell the interest of the Australian Government in the Ranger Uranium Mining project, ensure that the sale of such interest be only to Australian buyers. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in a position to indicate the present situation in regard to the Mereenie oil negotiations which have been taking place between the Magellan oil company, the Central Land Council and traditional owners? 
As a member of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I support  Senator Bishop  in commending the report to honourable senators. Defence procurement is a complex and highly technical subject, but it is also very important. In this report the Committee has attempted to show shortcomings in the present arrangements and to suggest improvements. 
The 1 976 White Paper on defence identified the need for a five-year program of $2.3 billion, at January 1976 prices, for ships, aircraft, armour and other equipments and plant 'to strengthen defence and correct existing shortcomings and imbalances'. The subsequent reductions in actual allocations to defence have meant that the shortcomings and imbalances perceived in 1 976 have been perpetuated. Meanwhile, other equipments have aged and the time when the capabilities that they represent will require replacement has come closer. Unless a dynamic, continuing and sustained long-term program of re-equipment is authorised the total capacity of the Defence Force and its capacity to expand will be eroded. The Committee considers that it is necessary to spend in the region of $650m a year at December 1978 prices on new equipment as opposed to the $43 7m allocated in the 1979-80 Budget to provide the equipments identified as necessary in the 1 976 White Paper. 
Australia is separated from its oversea suppliers of defence equipment by long lines of communication. Those lines of communication are vulnerable and potentially capable of interdiction. In a deteriorating world situation overseas suppliers would be likely to accord higher priority to their own needs than Australia's. In a conflict with a regional country, overseas suppliers may be unwilling to provide Australia with its defence requirements. For these cogent strategic reasons the Committee recommends that Australia should become increasingly self-reliant for its production of defence equipment. Because of Australia's relatively high technology, resource and economic potential and its potential to maintain sizable, modern defence forces, there is an important role for it to play in providing stability within its area of strategic environment- the South Pacific, the southern and eastern Indian Ocean, and the island chain to our north. This is an area of potential international conflict, perhaps even involving an area of relatively low indigenous military power in which Australia 's potential influence could be a determining factor in the maintenance of stability. 
The absence of any perceived major threat or identifiable potential enemy has been interpreted in many quarters to mean that no threat could arise to Australia in the foreseeable future and has resulted in a no-threat syndrome and a lack of clearly defined military capability objectives. This has promoted complacency, allowing successive governments to defer equipment acquisition decisions and leading to a marked reduction in defence preparedness. 
The limited deterrent capability of the present Defence Force could encourage a potential enemy to chance its arm and to cause Australia to engage in a massive rearmament program at a time not of its own choice. Because of the uncertain assurances of long-term security provided by the Department of Defence core-force approach for determining the Defence Force requirements, the Committee has considered five optional approaches. We describe these as the major deterrent approach, the high cost of entry or disproportionate response approach, the major hypothetical contingency approach, the low-level approach and the regional security approach. 
For reasons which we have discussed we have discarded all but the high cost of entry and major hypothetical contingency approaches. We recommend that the Government subject these to detailed assessment to determine which would be the most effective for defining the Defence Force requirements.  Mr President,  I hope that what I have said gives some indication of the range and depth of this report. There is much more that could be said concerning the report, and it is unfortunate that at this late stage of the Parliamentary session we have so little time to discuss it. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 14 November 1979: 
What action is proposed to make available a helicopter service in the Northern Territory to assist in road accidents, search and rescue operations, detection of drug smuggling and coastal surveillance, etc in view of representations from the Northern Territory Country Liberal Party. 
I present the following petition from 54 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable thePresident and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Northern Territory of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That it is acknowledged that it is reasonable for major sporting organisations to conclude agreements with individual commercial television networks for sole telecasting rights. 
However, one of the functions which the ABC should be expected to perform on behalf of the Government is a service to enable all areas of Australia to receive telecasts of major events, irrespective of whether some parts of the country are serviced on that particular event by a commercial network. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members should: 
Direct that the ABC should: 
Give priority to its role as a community service organisation in preferance to its commercial interests. 
On behalf of the Government, provide a community service to those areas not serviced by a commercial network so that direct telecasts of major events are transmitted to all Australians. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the feasibility study that is taking place between the Federal Government and the Northern Territory Government in regard to the construction of a standard gauge railway from Alice Springs to Darwin. I ask: When is the report expected to be completed? Is it the intention of the two governments to make known the contents of the report? 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 13 November 1979: 
1 ) What action is being taken to return control of the Uluru and Kakadu National Parks to the Northern Territory Government, in view of demands by that Government, the resolution expressed by the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers, and the changed circumstances resulting from self government for the Territory. 
Does the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service adhere to the role laid down for it by the Commonwealth Government, as detailed in the Minister's Press release of 12 August 1976; if not, why not. 
What is the total amount spent annually by officers of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service in travel and accommodation between their Canberra headquarters and Kakadu and Uluru National Parks. 
Why does the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service not exercise all of its powers of delegation, as permitted by section 36 of the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975, by providing appropriate Northern Territory authorities with full powers to operate Kakadu and Uluru National Parks on behalf of the Commonwealth. 
When will plans of management be provided for the Kakadu and Uluru National Parks, as required by section 1 1 of the Act, in view of the fact that the control of Kakadu and Uluru National Parks currently rests with the Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 8 November 1979: 
What action is proposed to review taxation charges on people in the outback and the north of Australia, with a view to improving their lot generally, and bringing them nearer to the economic and social conditions of people living in the more highly populated areas, in the light of the Government's endeavour to achieve equality for people in the Australian community. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
1 ) How much has been paid, or is due to be paid, by the Commonwealth, or authorities and agencies funded by the Commonwealth, for legal services for and on behalf of Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory for the 12 months ending 31 October 1979. 
Which legal practitioners, or firms of legal practitioners, have received these payments, and how much have they received in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 8 November 1979: 
What action is proposed to initiate taxation concessions to the mining industry to encourage on-shore exploration of minerals in northern and outback areas where costs are extremely high and living conditions difficult, in view of the considerable boost the Government has given by similar means to on-shore oil exploration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 20 November 1 979: 
1 ) Is the Government satisfied with the progress in its program for the eradication of bovine brucellosis in Australia, and is it anticipated that this program will be completed by 1 984 as planned. 
What areas of Australia are still infected, and, if brucellosis has not been eradicated by 1 984, what effect, if any, will it make on the export of beef to the United States market, in respect of: (a) individual States of Australia, and (b) Australia as a whole. 
What restrictions are there on stock movements from areas presently affected to market or to other areas for agistment. 
What nations are still affected by bovine brucellosis, and when is it expected that these countries will be declared brucellosis free. 
