I direct my question to the Minister for Science as Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory in this chamber. Can the Minister confirm that dismissal notices issued to staff yesterday by the National Capital Development Commission are not part of the Government's action to limit growth of the Public Service and, in fact, are not in accordance with the Government's intentions or announcements in this respect? 

 - Mr President, I am honoured to move: 
That the following Address-in-Reply be agreed to: 
To His Excellency the Governor-General 
May it please Your  Excellency-  We, the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament assembled, desire to express our loyalty to our Most Gracious Sovereign, and to thank Your  Excellency  for the Speech which you have been pleased to address to Parliament. 

 Mr President, may I begin by congratulating you on your election as  President.  I know that the confidence expressed in you will be fully justified and that you will enhance the dignity of this chamber during your tenure of office. We have seen already the tact and dignity with which you will handle proceedings in the chamber. I extend those good wishes also to the  Chairman  of Committees. 
I regard it as a great and somewhat daunting honour to enter the national Parliament, particularly the Senate, at this important time in Australia's history. I congratulate other honourable senators on their election, particularly those who, like myself, are taking their places here for the first time. I trust that I will be able to contribute, along with others, to facing up to and solving the critical problems which Australia now faces. Many of the decisions to be made will not be easy ones for any of us. It will be our responsibility to enact legislation which serves Australia 's interests in the broadest sense. 
Although my Party-the Liberal Party of Australia expressed reservations about the constitutionality of the election of senators for the Territories it has accepted the ruling of the High Court of Australia on this matter. I take this opportunity to suggest that, since the constitutionality of the election of Territorial senators has now been established, one further matter in this respect might be considered. The only distinction between my colleagues and me from the Territories and other senators is that our term of office coincides with that of the House of Representatives. I believe that, following the High Court's judgment, that provision might now be reconsidered. I hope that consideration can be given to Territorial senators having full status in this chamber through a full period of tenure of office as for other honourable senators. 
I want to contribute to national policy and to debates on issues which go beyond my own electorate. However, my first responsibility is and must be to the electors of the Australian Capital Territory and their families, lt is to them that I will give my attention first. 
The Australian Capital Territory is the base of the Commonwealth Public Service. I was a public servant for 1 1 years before entering the Senate. I believe that the Public Service is a highly efficient and capable organisation which serves the needs of the Australian people with great integrity. Members of the Public Service are as keen as anybody else to see the implementation of reforms to improve the Public Service and to make it a more efficient vehicle for providing essential services to the Australian community. I am pleased to say that one of the first measures to be introduced into this Parliament will be a new superannuation scheme for Commonwealth public servants. No doubt there will be ways of improving this scheme once it has been introduced. But I particularly welcome it and the special provisions that are now to be included which will enhance the position of women in the Commonwealth Public Service. I will be especially interested in the conditions of service of public servants, particularly women, with respect, for example, to employment availability and the provision of child care facilities for those wishing to work. 
I am pleased that after discussions I had yesterday with the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  issued a statement making it clear that action taken by the National Capital Development Commission to dismiss staff is not in accord with Government policy. Revised staff ceilings are to be reached by normal wastage, such as retirements and resignations. The Prime Minister has rightly called for a report on the actions taken by the National Capital Development Commission. 
I believe that there is a greater role for handicapped people to play in the Commonwealth Public Service and in the community as a whole, so that they might take a greater part in national administration and at the same time be provided with the dignity in our society which such employment provides. 
It is my view that the Public Service ought to have an ombudsman to whom public servants can take particular problems and complaints. A departmental ombudsman, welfare officers or 
Public Service Board officers cannot provide such a service. It can be effectively provided only by someone standing beyond the strict boundaries of the Public Service itself. 
The private sector has also played an enormous part in the growth of the Australian Capital Territory. From its beginnings early in this century the construction industry has in many respects been the backbone of the private sector in Canberra. In this rapidly developing city, this remains the case. Measures are needed to stimulate the construction industry and the private sector as a whole to ensure balance in the Australian Capital Territory and to provide employment and housing. With the rapid growth of the population in the Australian Capital Territory and the problems of dislocation for people transferred to it- 1 might add that it is Australia's finest example of a growth centre- housing availability and rental accommodation are often critical. Those are matters to which I, as a member of the Senate, will be paying particular attention. 
The Australian Capital Territory enjoys high standards in the field of education. It has its own university, college of advanced education, technical college and many schools. Its student/ teacher ratio is the most favourable in Australia and its standards of education are amongst the highest. I will be working to see that those standards are maintained. 
Following the enactment of the Child Care Act in 1972 the provision of child care facilities throughout Australia has expanded rapidly. I will also be working to see that this continues in the Australian Capital Territory. I believe that there is a greater need for the integration of child care and pre-school facilities as this will permit the provision of such services to many more children. This is equally important, of course, to parents, particularly women, who wish to work or who require such facilities for their children so that they can participate more fully in community affairs. 
I especially welcome the Governor-General's announcement that the relevant Government commissions will be asked to give close attention to measures designed to achieve greater equality in education facilities and particularly to provide better educational opportunities for the disadvantaged, handicapped, Aboriginal, isolated and migrant children. 
Such policies reflect, I believe, the spirit of liberalism and of our times; an awareness of the obligation of each person to others and of government to the community as a whole. Our policies aim to provide all Australians with equality of opportunity and equality before the law. They are designed to ensure that each person has the dignity of employment. 
The public sector provides vital services and has an essential role in the complex modern state such as Australia is. Today that role is more important than ever. But it is the private sector which creates the wealth to permit government and the public sector to provide these services and to assist those in need. It is the private sector which, for most people, will ensure the dignity of employment. It is only in these circumstances that the freedom to which we all aspire, for each individual, can be attained. It is to this dignity, this equality and this freedom that the LiberalNational Party Government is dedicated. 
We will also pursue a balanced and realistic foreign policy. In accordance with our philosophy of liberalism we believe in the equality of peoples and of nations. We will seek closer regional ties based on a recognition of the practical bases of these relationships. I believe, for example, that the possibility of consultation between the Association of South-East Asian Nations and the South Pacific Forum ought to be explored further. This would link more closely the South-East Asian and South Pacific regions. We are a member of the Forum and I believe this is an initiative which we might usefully pursue at meetings soon to be held in Wellington. These 2 organisations and the countries which participate in them face similar problems. They may be able to co-operate effectively in a search for solutions. 
The Government has taken initiatives in the United Nations and elsewhere to end the bloodshed in East Timor. We have made it clear to Indonesia that we do not accept incorporation of East Timor in Indonesia as inevitable. Our relations with Indonesia are of great importance but not to the point where we will cast aside our commitment to fundamental rights and freedom. 
In the Middle East we will pursue a consistent policy aimed at maximising the contribution we might make to achieve peace. We will stand by Israel 's right to exist and we will also work for the alleviation of the great suffering of the Palestinian Arab people. 
We have a close and long standing relationship with the United States of America. It is an interdependent relationship in which we generally pursue similar values and freedoms. We share a growing concern over developments in the Indian Ocean. We will have our differences and we will express them forcefully, but privately. In many ways our relationship with the United States is fundamental. But our views and our interests are not to be taken for granted by anybody just as we do not take others for granted. That must be the basis of our relationship with every nation. 

 Mr President, I look forward to working with you and with all my colleagues in the Senate so that we might each, and as a whole, contribute to Australia's future. Despite present difficult circumstances I believe, as the Governor-General said yesterday, that we have a unique opportunity to establish in Australia a truly liberal and humane society where freedom, equality and dignity prevail and where the disadvantaged have first call on our resources. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
-Can the Minister for Social Security say whether it is correct, as publicly alleged by the Leader of the Opposition in another place, that there are to be reductions in funding for assistance and services for the handicapped? If that is not the case, can the Minister indicate what action is being taken to assist the handicapped and to enhance their role in the community, particularly in the Australian Capital Territory? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Child Care Matters. It relates to the question just asked. Is the Minister aware of other such ill-informed claims that the Government has no specific commitment to funding full day care services for children? Could she perhaps comment further on claims that most of the $65m for this year will be spent on salaries for pre-school teachers? Can the Minister say whether such allegations are accurate? 
I wish to refer to the provision of services for children in the community for which $65 m is to be spent this year. I do so particularly because of statements made recently by some honourable senators opposite. I want to begin by emphasing that no capital projects will be stopped by the essential economies now being undertaken by the Government and that there will be provision for new projects. Priorities in this respect are now under consideration. I believe that honourable senators opposite who have suggested that the present Government has placed too much emphasis on pre-school funding to the exclusion of other facilities and the integration of childhood services in general have apparently not read or understood the statements by the Munster for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  or do not understand the previous Government's policies in this respect. 
The Minister for Social Security has given an assurance on several occasions that existing commitments for the provision of childhood services will be met this financial year. The Minister has also confirmed that the previous Government's policy of providing 75 per cent of the cost of salaries of agreed staff in pre-schools will continue on the provision- I emphasise this pointthat they integrate their activities to cover other areas of family need such as occasional and day care facilities. This will ensure the fullest use of resources and facilities in the interests of both children and parents. It will ensure that the maximum number of children in the community are cared for in the most appropriate way and that their parents are thus free to participate in community affairs. 
Statements made recently by some honourable senators opposite suggesting that the Government is placing too much emphasis on pre-school funding are, I believe, misguided and inaccurate. In 1974-75, for example, of $45m provided, 80 per cent was allocated to preschools in both recurrent and capital expenditure. Because of that policy pursued by the previous Government, in the present year 75 per cent of funding must go to pre-schools, as a result of provisions made by the previous Government. It has to be conceded that in 1 975 even the Labor Government began to appreciate that there had been an over-emphasis on the funding provided for pre-schools. It then announced a new system of funding for pre-school salaries. The arrangement had been that the Commonwealth paid 100 per cent of teachers' salaries in new preschools built with Commonwealth funds. In addition, the Commonwealth funded existing preschools by paying the difference between the amounts allocated under State grants and the costs of increases in award salary rates. The new arrangement which the previous Government entered into to start from 1 January this year was to pay 75 per cent of salaries of agreed preschool staff in existing and in new pre-schools on condition- I emphasise this-that pre-schools extended and integrated their services to make provision for full day care needs, occasional care and emergency care. 
The present Government, because it is anxious to place more emphasis on funding for a wider range of child care programs, announced its decision to continue this funding commitment. The long term aim of the present Government is to shift the balance of funding for children's services from an emphasis on the single pre-school and kindergarten function to a balance between the full range of services, including full day care, occasional and emergency care, toy libraries and parent education programs. These arrangements will necessarily take time to implement, particularly given the previous Government's emphasis on pre-school funding often to the exclusion of other services and the integration of facilities for children. Thus a significant percentage of funds to be allocated for child care services will go to pre-schools in the current year because of commitments that have been entered into by the previous Government. Contrary to some statements made recently by honourable senators opposite, it is our policy to ensure the integration of childhood services. 
We thus want to ensure that there is an integration of facilities for children in the community- not just pre-school, but occasional, day care and other facilities- so that both children and parents in the community gain maximum benefit from such facilities. I shall refer to some projects approved already by the interim committee of the Schools Commission for the Australian Capital Territory. Under the Child Care Act there are a number of programs including grants for 2 centres at the Australian National University and one at the Canberra 
College of Advanced Education. There is provision also for assistance for the Women's Child Care Collective in Canberra. Under the childhood services program in the Australian Capital Territory provision is made also for assistance for the Canberra Technical College creche, for the. Marymead family day care scheme, for the Woden Community Association family day care scheme and for assistance to the Young Men's Christian Association 'children in need' program. 
-Could the Minister for Social Security explain the situation which exists with respect to benefits and pensions received by widows and supporting mothers when they undertake training under the National Employment and Training scheme? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Will the Minister indicate what arrangements have been made to have social security benefits paid into bank savings accounts? In particular, I ask whether that service can be arranged through the Commonwealth Bank? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory say whether it is correct, as has been alleged, that the present Government has drastically reduced funds available for Commissioner for Housing loans in the Australian Capital Territory? If this is not true, can the Minister indicate what the position in fact is? 
In supporting this Bill which amends the National Health Act, I want to make 3 points briefly. I begin my remarks by making the general point that the Bill must be seen as part of the Government's overall economic program on which it has a clear commitment to the Australian community and to the voters who put the Government into power last December. The Government is undertaking essential economies, of which this Bill represents part, to ensure that we set the basis for subsequent real economic growth from which might be provided greater benefits for all in the community. This is our ultimate aim. I believe that  Senator Melzer  made some telling points towards the end of her speech. I assure her we on this side of the Senate recognise that those problems exist and that any measures taken by any government, of course, must be under continuing scrutiny. So where the disadvantaged are affected and further disadvantaged, measures should be taken to alleviate that position. The action taken in introducing this Bill is part of the Government's overall program to re-establish real economic growth in Australia and ultimately to provide greater benefits, particularly for those in the community who need them most. 
In some respects perhaps it is regrettable that some of the measures that have to be taken are essential at this stage. Perhaps it is difficult in the social welfare or health areas that such measures have to be considered and taken. But, as I have already said, I believe that the impact must be carefully scrutinised at all times by all of us in the Parliament. I might add that the fact that such measures are necessary is a mark of the extent of the crisis which Australia faces as a result of policies pursued in recent years and which we are charged to overcome. If we as a community are to continue to provide a high standard of health care delivery, the resources that we have- and we must recognise that these resources are limitedmust be managed as efficiently as possible in the interests of the community as a whole. For example, in the Australian Capital Territory we have what I believe to be a very effective system of health care. But I also believe that it is recognised here that the resources that we have and that we will marshal for use in the Australian Capital Territory must be managed in the most effective way in the interests of the community. It is a well known fact that inefficient government has its most adverse impact on those who can do least about it and who can do least to help themselves. The aged, the handicapped and the poor are amongst those people. It is ultimately those people whom we wish to assist most and whom we believe measures such as those included in this Bill will assist ultimately. 
The second point, which deals with a more specific aspect of the Bill, relates to increases in the general patient contribution for pharmaceutical benefits. I do not want to traverse again the ground that I believe was covered very ably by  Senator Baume  earlier. I believe that he made the points that it was necessary to make in that respect and that the proposed increase in the pharmaceutical benefits prescription rate is appropriate. I emphasise, as the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  pointed out, that, as in the past, eligible pensioners will not be charged for their pharmaceutical benefits. Also, other speakers have made the point that the problem in this respect frequently lies in over prescribing. But I submit that that is not a matter that can be dealt with in a Bill such as this. 
I would like to deal, thirdly, with the provisions in the Bill relating to Commonwealth hospital benefits. Again as the Minister pointed out, most savings in this respect will be made under section 46 of the Act relating to patients who contribute to registered hospital benefits organisations. The Minister said in her second reading speech: 
Registered hospital benefits organisations will be requested to provide additional hospital insurance benefits to cover the increased cost of hospital treatment arising from the termination of these benefits. At this time it is estimated that the extra cost to contributors of these organisations will be small- in the region of 10c to 12c per week family contribution. 
In conclusion, I emphasise that the measures proposed in this Bill to amend the National Health Act must be kept under scrutiny to ensure that hardship does not ensue for the disadvantaged in the community such as pensioners. In this respect I refer particularly to measures in the Bill which provide for the removal of the pharmaceutical benefits concession for beneficiaries under the subsidised health benefits plan. However, I believe that the Bill indicates the Government's determination to overcome the economic crisis so that ultimately we as a Government will be in a better position to provide more extensive health and social security benefits for the community as a whole and particularly for the disadvantaged. I support the Bill. 
Is the Minister for Education aware of some staffing difficulties at the Canberra Technical College? In particular, will he examine the proposal for the appointment of seventeen technical and library support staff which is currently with the Public Service Board and ensure that the matter is handled with utmost urgency as an additional staff of seventeen is regarded as the minimum required to maintain teaching and class standards at the College? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) How many requests were made to the Commissioner for Housing for emergency housing in the Australian Capital Territory last year. 
How many of these requests were approved by the Department of the Capital Territory. 
How many additional requests were subsequently approved by the Emergency Housing Committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What stage has been reached with the consideration by the Canberra Commercial Development Authority of the Belconnen Shopping Mall. 
Has a feasibility study on this project been produced. 
Can an assurance be given that proper child care facilities will be available from the time shopping facilities open in the proposed Mall. 
-I  present the following petition from 73 citizens of Wreck Bay: 
We the undersigned citizens of Australia humbly petition the Australian Senate that whereas: 
the Queensland Government has passed legislation to allow mining on the Aurukun Aboriginal Reserve and 
whereas the Aurukun Aboriginal Community have declared that they want no mining on their land and 
whereas the Liberal-Country Partys' policy is to allow mining of Aboriginal land only "in a manner which reflects the views and needs of the traditional aboriginal owners." The petitioners pray that the Australian Government will: 
initiate a Commission of enquiry into the mining proposed on the Aboriginal Land at Aurukun 
refuse categorically to grant an export licence to the proposed mining consortium until there are negotiations with the Aurukun Community which results in an agreement on any mining terms. 
In the event of no agreement being reached with the Aboriginal Community that the Australian Government will persist with its refusal to grant an export licence and 
insist on a50 per cent Australian equity in the proposed mining venture. 
Your petitioners humbly pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. I do so with some reservations in view of the Minister's earlier statement. Nevertheless, I proceed because I think this is a matter of some urgency. I refer to the Australian War Memorial in Canberra. I draw the attention of the Minister to the annual report of the Board of Trustees of the War Memorial and to some of the difficulties which they have highlighted in that report, in particular that the collection is rapidly deteriorating, that important parts of the collection may soon be beyond restoration and that remedial action will be difficult unless this deterioration is halted immediately. Will the 
Minister consider taking action urgently to overcome those problems and to ensure the preservation of the material in the War Memorial, which is amongst the finest collections of its kind in the world and which I believe is an important part of our national heritage? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Approximately how many handicapped persons are expected to receive vocational training this year under the Australian Government Rehabilitation Scheme. 
Approximately how many of these will receive training in the Australian Capital Territory. 
What were the equivalent national and Australian Capital Territory figures for each year from 1970-71 to the present year. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory indicate what provisions exist in the Australian Capital Territory with respect to the disposal of waste materials? In particular, can he say whether there are special provisions dealing with toxic waste materials which could in any way endanger the community? Finally, will the Minister undertake to ensure that this matter is kept under careful review in the interests of the people of the Australian Capital Territory and perhaps some people who live beyond the borders of the Territory? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the student-teacher ratio at schools in the Australian Capital Territory at; (a) primary level and (b) secondary level. 
What has been suggested as the desirable ratio by the Schools Commission. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What plans are currently under consideration for the provision of housing for aged persons in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I address a question to  Senator Webster  as Minister for Science and as Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. It follows a reply that he gave to a question last week relating to European carp. Can the Minister at this stage indicate the extent to which European carp are present in the rivers and lakes of the Australian Capital Territory and give some indication of the sort of impact those fish might have on the ecological systems of those waters? Can the Minister also indicate what research is being undertaken on this question which might assist in preventing the spread of the European carp in the A.C.T. and elsewhere in eastern Australia? In particular, can the Minister indicate whether it is true that European carp can have an adverse effect on the efficiency of water supply systems? If so, will he undertake to see that measures are taken to try to prevent any adverse effects on the A.CT.'s water supply, including that which will be provided by the new Googong Dam? 
I want to take this opportunity to speak briefly about a subject that is very important to the Australian Capital Territory and that is education. Education is important in any community. In the Australian Capital Territory, because of the structure of the population and the number of young families here, it is a matter of particular importance and one which has faced some problems recently. I think it is well known that Canberra and its surrounding 'new towns' constitute Australia's most significant growth centre. In the last couple of years that very growth has given rise to some problems in planning and these have affected education especially. The new Government has had to face up to some unusual and very complex problems in this area. 
I would like to refer particularly to the announcement made yesterday by the National Capital Development Commission that projects amounting in value to $50m will be commenced between now and the end of June this year. Despite the very serious economic problems which the present Government faces, this decision has been made particularly because of the need to build a number of new schools in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The statement by the Government yesterday announcing works to be carried out by the National Capital Development Commission includes several important projects relating to education in the Australian Capital Territory. Let me mention just a few of them. The Belconnen Technical College will proceed, the Melba College will proceed, the Holt Primary School extensions which are very urgently needed will proceed, the Kaleen High School will be built and the Spence Primary School and the Spence Pre-School will be proceeded with. All of these will be commenced before the end of June. 
On this matter I would like to take the opportunity to commend the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  for the energy that he has shown, his decisiveness in approaching this problem in the Australian Capital Territory and his understanding of it. 
-That is where the problems came from. I would like especially to acknowledge the sympathy with which the Minister has approached this critical problem of education in the Australian Capital Territory. But I know that he is very well aware that as these buildings go ahead there are still other problems in front of us in the field of education. These range from such matters as outdoor recreation facilities at Telopea Park High School to the Interim Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority. I am confident that his decisions in these areas will be as significant to the Australian Capital Territory as are the decisions announced yesterday with respect to the work of the National Capital Development Commission. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, concerns the new superannuation scheme for Commonwealth public servants. I refer particularly to those people who presently contribute to the Provident Account and are not pan of the general pension scheme. Can the Minister say what effect the new scheme will have on Provident Account contributors? Can the Minister indicate in general terms whether the new scheme includes special provisions to cover the interests of people who currently contribute to the Provident Account? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to suggestions in some quarters that the badly needed centre for the intellectually handicapped at Bruce in the Australian Capital Territory may not open as scheduled on 1 June. Can the Minister say whether the centre, which is urgently required, will be opened on schedule. If there are problems with its opening, will the Minister indicate whether some action can be taken to ensure that the centre is opened on schedule? 
I wish to raise this evening the subject of a meeting which I attended earlier today at the National Library of Australia in Canberra. It was a seminar arranged by the Australian Capital Territory Branch of the Library Association of Australia and it dealt with library services for the handicapped. I believe that this is a matter which is worthy of the attention of this chamber and of this Parliament. It is a matter to which I hope greater attention will be given by the Government. I think it is recognised that all governments must give first priority to assistance to the disadvantaged in the community. It is also generally recognised, or I hope it is, that the handicapped in our community are among the most disadvantaged. Often in an affluent society such as ours the handicapped feel their disadvantage much more than they should. For that reason alone this subject ought to be given greater consideration. 
Too often the difficulties which the handicapped face in our society tend to be overlooked. I do not suggest that on anyone's part this is a matter of deliberate disregard. However, that does not make it any less distressing for those who suffer as a result. The seminar today at the National Library of Australia dealt with a number of issues relating to means by which the handicapped in the community might be assisted by better library facilities both here and throughout Australia. Some consideration was given particularly to the system operating in the United States of America as there was a guest speaker from the Library of Congress. 
There are 200 000 blind or visually handicapped people in Australia and I suggest that there is a case for better services for them and a co-ordinated national examination of this problem. This matter arose at the seminar and 3 resolutions were passed by the members of the Australian Capital Territory branch of the Library Association of Australia in relation to it. Rather than read them I ask that the text of the 3 short resolutions be incorporated in  Hansard. 
That this Seminar or the Library Association of Australia, A.C.T. Branch, and other interested persons, recommends that the National Library of Australia investigates the establishment of a national service for the visually and physically handicapped modelled on the service provided by the Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. 
That this Seminar of the Library Association of Australia, A.C.T. Branch, recommends that the National Library of Australia or some other body nominated by the Library Association of Australia surveys existing braille and talking materials available throughout Australia for the visually and physically handicapped and publicises the material and resources available, perhaps through the State Libraries or other appropriate authorities, as well as investigating the possibility of development of national co-operation in this field. 
That this Seminar recommends that the National Library of Australia or a body recommended by the Library Association of Australia as a matter of urgency compiles a simplified union catalogue of braille and talking books held in Australia. 
If I could summarise them briefly, the first resolution deals with the need to establish a library service for the visually and physically handicapped, to provide reading and other library services for them. The second resolution calls for a survey to be undertaken to ascertain what material is already available in this country and to discover what gaps there are in that material and how it might be improved. The third resolution is a call for a catalogue of the material that is available. 
I commend these resolutions to the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  as he is responsible for the National Library. These resolutions suggest that the National Library might take a major role in all 3 areas covered by the resolutions. I ask that the Minister undertake to examine the proposals and particularly the role that might be played by the National Library in examining services and facilities. By doing so I believe that the Minister and this Government will play an important role in assisting the handicapped in an area which to date has been sadly neglected in Australia. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, by saying that I know the Minister is aware of concern that has been expressed in the Australian Capital Territory about the provision of remedial teaching staff, particularly for remedial reading, at schools in the Territory. On that basis, I ask: Can he say whether there has been any reduction of remedial teaching staff compared, for example, with levels under the previous Government in 1975? Is he able to give an assurance that the availability of remedial teachers as provided in 1975 will be maintained? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. In doing so I draw her attention to a report in the  Canberra Times  this morning which deals with a proposal by the Liberal Party leader in the Legislative Assembly in the Australia Capital Territory,  Dr Peter  Hughes. He asks that consideration be given to increasing child endowment benefits. I should like to quote briefly from that article to give the Minister the background. The article reports  Dr Hughes  as saying: 
Many working wives, mothers of young children, were reluctant members or the work force, because of economic pressures. Their income was often small, after paying child care fees, tax and the cost of fares or a second car. 
I leave aside several important issues dealt with in the statement, such as child care facilities and taxation. I ask: Can the Minister say whether this proposal might be considered, particularly as it would expand the degree of choice for womenand in some cases for men- as to whether they work in employment outside the family and home? I ask also whether special consideration might be given to low income families in this context, as I understand  Dr Hughes  has also suggested. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What plans are presently under consideration for the provision of nursing home facilities for the aged in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I support this Bill. I believe that it is an important measure to give a broader perspective and thus greater strength to the relationship between Australia and Japan. There are many facets to that relationship other than the economic and commercial ones. There has been very substantial development in recent years, as my colleague  Senator Baume  has just said. But I believe that our relationship with Japan must be more broadly based. We would be deluding ourselves if we believed that the relationship has the base which it ought to have. This AustraliaJapan Foundation, I believe, will be a first step and by no means the final one in providing a broader base on which a more substantive and stronger relationship between Australia and Japan can be built. There are few nations with which our relationship is more important. At the same time, there are few nations with which our relationship is so narrowly based, particularly when that relationship is founded on trade and commerce- areas in which we know difficulties can occur suddenly and often with devastating effects to the relationship between two countries. 
Australia and Japan are nations whose histories, culture and development, I believe, until recently have rarely had much in common, although we have ideals in common expressed through the institution of parliamentary democracy and through the industry of our respective peoples. In recent decades, our histories and our outlooks have increasingly converged. This is partly because we share a common part of the globe. In that time, the relationship that we have built up has been based predominantly on trade and resources. But there are other important factors as I have mentioned already. Other honourable senators have referred to many of those, particularly  Senator Baume  in his speech preceding mine. 
I would like to refer to some other matters, particularly our shared concern for the Western Pacific and the island nations of that region. Both Australia and Japan have considerable interests in the new nations of the South Pacific ranging from Nauru to Fiji. We are both concerned with the role of the United States of America in the Pacific and particularly the nature of its continuing role in the Western Pacific. We are both conscious of and concerned at the possible impact of the Guam doctrine on the area and on each of us. We equally share, though for different reasons, concern at the developments in China and the Soviet Union, their impact on each of us and their impact on the region in which Australia and Japan are. We share an interest and concern in developments in Indo-China and the Subcontinent, areas which both of us see as ones of potential instability. However, in each of those areas, as there is in Australia and Japan, there is a great interest in continuing stability, and that is a fundamental interest we share with Japan and one which we hope others increasingly will share. 
I would like to focus attention briefly on the role that Australia and Japan play and may play in the future in South East Asia and the South Pacific. There are many areas of common interest there, areas such as trade, international transport and communication, the growth of developing countries in South East Asia and the Pacific, which encourage the prospect of closer consultations on a regular basis. Australia is a member of the South Pacific Forum and we have close relations with the Association of South East Asian Nations, while Japan has considerable interests in the South Pacific area and in South East Asia. I believe that the strengthening of ties between Australia and Japan will lead to closer relations and a stronger structure of relationships throughout that region. In fact, there have been proposals from various people, including  Sir John  Crawford and  Dr Drysdale  from the Australian National University, for some form of organisation for Pacific trade, aid and development. While it is a concept fraught with difficulties and complexities, it is one worth considering and perhaps worth considering now more than ever before. 
In any such organisation Australia and Japan would have a substantial interest as in this area we are both considerable economic powers, relatively speaking. 
Japan is a secondary producer; Australia is a major agricultural and resource producer. This relationship based on economic and commercial factors had its origins largely in the 1957 JapanAustralia Trade Agreement. When that Trade Agreement was signed the nature of the trade between the 2 countries was markedly different from the nature of that trade now. I shall refer quickly to a couple of statistics. In 1958, 75 per cent of our exports to Japan were agricultural products and 10 per cent were minerals. However, even by 1 970 more than half of our exports to Japan were minerals and during the decade from 1960 to 1970 our exports to Japan increased tenfold from $200m to $2 billion. There is no gainsaying the significance of minerals in the relationship which exists now, minerals such as iron ore, copper, bauxite, lead, zinc and, of course, coking coal. But even now we should not forget the importance of agricultural products such as mutton, beef, wheat, sugar, wool, cheese and butter. 
As I mentioned earlier, the relationship has been too heavily dependent on economic factors. 
It has lacked depth because of this and this Foundation will make a considerable contribution if it can remedy this and provide the basis for a much broader relationship between the 2 nations. There has been an awareness for many years of the need to do this. As early as 1967 it was agreed that there should be regular consultations between the 2 countries and these have been held. In March of that year the Foreign Minister, then  Mr Hasluck,  visited Japan and an agreement was reached that both governments should make a greater effort to promote active co-operation in the Asia-Pacific region, and this has been progressing. Since 1967 there have been annual high level consultations between the Japanese and Australia Foreign Ministries at the official level. In 1970 an Australian interdepartmental committee was established to review completely Australia's relationship with Japan. It concluded its work in 1971. A standing inter-departmental committee presided over by the Department of Foreign Affairs, was then established and was charged with the task of keeping under review all aspects of the relationship between Australia and Japan. In 1971 there was an important development in the establishment of a ministerial committee to review each year all aspects of the bilateral relationship between the 2 countries, Equally importantly in 1 97 1 the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence of this Senate was established and its first reference was one word- Japan. Its  Chairman  was my distinguished colleague,  Senator Sim,  and it made recommendations for the development of relations between the 2 countries which bear close scrutiny now as they did then. I shall quote from one part of that Committee's report which bears significantly on this BDI and contains views with respect to the relationship between Australia and Japan which I consider are of great value. The report said: 
The relationships between Australia and Japan have been almost exclusively in the area of trade in recent years. While these developments have been mutually advantageous and contributed to the prosperity of both countries, what has emerged most strongly from the Committee's inquiry is the need to foster greater understanding- A broad and difficult term to define- between people at all levels in both countries. Commercial relations alone will not achieve this objective although it has been from commercial associations that the first moves have emerged. . . . 
On the scale needed to achieve lasting and personal relationships between the peoples of two countries, it is difficult to see how more can be achieved without substantial participation by governments, and this area is one in which the Australian Government should take the initiative. 
In such initiatives Australia must be able to explain clearly to the Japanese the role it sees for itself in relation with Japan, with Asia and with the rest of the world. . . . 
There is evidence to show that a great deal of mutual goodwill exists at the present time arising largely from satisfactory trading, but goodwill alone is no substitute for understanding and if not nurtured by deeper understanding could wither- particularly if economic circumstances were to change. 
That statement is as relevant today as it was then, and this Bill and the Foundation which it creates will mark an important step towards meeting the objectives which were set out by that Senate Committee. 
My colleague  Senator Baume  already has referred to clause 5 of the Bill which sets out the purposes of the Foundation. Like  Senator Baume,  I applaud the nature of those objectives because if they are implemented they will mean a stronger and more effective relationship between Australia and Japan. I also endorse his view that there must be a broad cross-section of people involved. It must not only be the elite who benefit from this Foundation. The work of the Foundation must penetrate as far as possible into our society so that the understanding which the Foundation is aimed at establishing can be achieved on the broadest possible base in our community and, likewise, in the Japanese community. I think it is worth mentioning in this context the contribution that has been made by the Australia-Japan Business Co-operation Committee in recent years. I mention also the Australia-Japan symposiums which have been held. The fourth symposium was recently held at the Australian National University in Canberra  and was attended by 2 14 participants. It was the largest ever held. It was opened by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and was attended by the distinguished Professor Kosako of Kyoto. The symposium was successful in promoting some of the aims which this Foundation is intended to achieve. 
The Foundation will, I believe, add substantially to the many agreements and treaties which already exist between Australia and Japan. Let me name a few of these. There is the Air Services Agreement, the Commerce Agreement of 1957, the Agreement for the Exchange of International Money Orders, the Fisheries Agreement, the Taxation Agreement, the Agreement for Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy, the Agreement for the Protection of Migratory Birds and the Cultural Exchange Agreement. I believe the Foundation takes those agreements and the relationship between the 2 countries a vital step further, as it must, if our relationship is to be sustained on a substantive and effective basis. 
I recognise, as I believe we all must, that fundamental to any relationship between Australia and Japan in the foreseeable future will be our commercial and trading relationship. I hope that the Foundation will be seen to mark a new and effective step, in the relationship between Australia and Japan, towards providing the broader foundation for the more substantive relationship to which I have referred. I would like to take up one point made by  Senator Button.  He referred to the Foundation and the Bill as essentially a gloss to a trading arrangement. 
-I think in this case he just said a trading arrangement. It was elsewhere that he referred to it as sordid. To refer to the Bill as essentially a gloss to a trading arrangement is to underestimate the potential of the Foundation. I make the point that I believe it is up to all of us and to the Government to ensure that the Foundation does not become just that. It must be more than that if the relationship between Australia and Japan is to grow in an effective fashion. I would like to conclude by drawing attention to the final words of the second reading speech of the Minister for Administrative Services. He said: 
The Foundation is a first and necessary step in the creation of the bridge which we hope to build between our 2 peoples. 
It is just that. It is only a first step towards that more substantial relationship. We must see it as that and must treat it as that. I believe it is a worthy first step. I support the Bill. 
-I present the following petition from 36 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
There is a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man-made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission, which was approved by both sides of this Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independent staff, resources and funds. 
That Technical Assistance Grants and Administrative Support Grants to community organisations are needed to partially redress the gross imbalance in technical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the Governments program of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the budget allocations in these areas over that of 1 975-76. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen a report of a statement by a prominent scholar and writer on Soviet affairs from the London School of Economics,  Mr Peter  Reddaway, in the  Canberra Times  of 30 March, in which  Mr Reddaway  is reported to have referred to the  de jure  recognition by the previous Australian Government of Soviet control over the Baltic States as an extraordinarily grotesque act of appeasement? Has the Minister noted that  Mr Reddaway  is reported to have said also: 'You can't repair all the damage done by that sort of thing'? What action has been taken to reverse the decision of the previous Labor Government by which Soviet control of the three Baltic States was given international legal sanction? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister list the pre-schools which currently operate in the Australian Capital Territory. 
) What is the average daily capacity of each pre-school. 
What has been the average daily usage, based on the days that the pre-school operated, over the past year, or period of operation if less than a year, of each pre-school. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Which programs are the Technical and Further Education Commission conducting or supporting with respect to disadvantaged persons wishing to participate in technical and further education with particular reference to Aborigines, the physically handicapped and those with problems relating to literacy. 
Which of these programs are, or will be carried out, in the Australian Capital Territory and what will each entail. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What parking facilities are available for students at the Canberra Technical College. 
Are plans under consideration to extend and improve parking facilities; if so, what are they; if not, will the Minister undertake to look into this matter urgently. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many physically handicapped persons are currently enrolled at the Canberra Technical College. 
What special provision is made to assist the handicapped who attend the College. 
Are there regulations which deal with the provision of special facilities for the handicapped in any new construction at the College. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Social Security concerning the Koomarri school in Canberra for the intellectually handicapped. Is the Minister aware that many facilities at the school for both teachers and students are most inadequate and that plans for improvements have been approved for some years but no action has been taken to implement them? Will the Minister investigate this situation and the hardship it is causing many already disadvantaged young people, their families and their teachers? Will the Minister ensure that the situation at Koomarri school and action on improvements there are given high priority in considering the 1976-77 Budget? 
I move: 
That there be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence the following matter: The implications for Australia's foreign policy and national security of proposals for a new international economic order. 
I understand that the Opposition will move an amendment proposing that this matter be referred to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I should like to indicate that the Government will oppose that amendment. It would seem that such an amendment might suggest that it is inappropriate that such a subject be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. We believe that that is not so. The subject- the implications for Australia's foreign policy and national security of proposals for a new international economic order- is one of great significance. The consideration of it, I believe, is fully in accord with the status of the Senate and of its standing committees. 
I should like to refer to the resolution of the Senate by which this and other Senate standing committees were established earlier this year, lt states that the committees will be 'empowered to inquire into and report upon such matters as are referred to them by the Senate'. In 1970 when the Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees of the Senate were established their specific purpose was to assist and supplement the other work of the Senate by inquiring into and reporting on matters referred to them by the Senate. I suggest that such committees are competent to deal with any subject which the Senate sees fit to refer to them. I believe that this important reference is one which a standing committee of this chamber ought to consider. 
I should like briefly to refer to an eminent authority who has written: 
The Senate's standing committee system has significantly strengthened the parliamentary system of government by providing opportunities and facilities for the more thorough consideration of public affairs and, by establishing formal channels of communication between the Senate and the electorate, has stimulated more public interest and participation in decision making. 
I believe that a Senate committee, in considering such a reference as that proposed could effectively serve the purposes referred to in that statement. The Senate can thereby play its part in increasing public awareness of the importance of the subject about which, I believe, there is perhaps too little awareness at the moment. 
The proposals for a new international economic order, which have been current now for some three or four years, deal with many subjects of great importance to our foreign policy and to our national security, ranging from the question of development assistance through to trade and the transfer of technology. It is a vitally important subject to which I think the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence ought to direct its attention. I should like to refer to some of the other subjects with which this Committee has dealt. It has dealt with subjects such as Japan, the Australian Army, Australia and the United Nations involvement in Australian territories, Vietnamese refugees and, shortly, it will deal with the subject of the Indian Ocean. 
I believe that this reference is in keeping with the tradition which has been set for this Committee of dealing with matters of great public significance which cover a wide range of issues of importance to the community. I simply say that I believe the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is competent to deal with this subject. The Senate is competent to refer the subject to it. I consider that the subject is consistent with the standing and status of the Senate itself and of the standing committees of the Senate. Therefore, we will oppose the amendment foreshadowed by the Opposition and support the motion as it stands. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  Is the motion seconded? 
I support this Bill because I believe it implements a very important election promise of the Government to adjust pensions in accordance with movements of the consumer price index twice yearly. Since it implements that principle it is a very important piece of legislation. Its introduction at this early stage in the life of the Thirtieth Parliament is an indication of the priority given to this legislation by the Government.  Senator Colston  addressed himself at considerable length to one aspect of the Bill. I feel it might be worth mentioning some other aspects which I believe are of great significance. In particular, I refer to the fact that the main provisions of the Bill give substantial increases in various rates of pensions and other benefits, namely, the standard rate of pension for aged persons, invalids, widows and supporting mothers; the married rate of pension; unemployment and sickness benefits payable to unmarried persons aged 18 years or more; unemployment and sickness benefits payable to maimed persons; and additional unemployment and sickness benefits payable in respect of dependent spouses. The proposed pension increases will also flow on to the recipients of sheltered employment allowances. These increases flow from increases in November 1975 introduced by the former Labor Government and therefore follow at a 6-month interval those increases. 
The Bill will make available very significant pension increases to pensioners throughout Australia. The cost this financial year will be $35. 3m, and next year $232. 7m. It is important that this legislation proceed quickly and that these additional benefits be made available quickly to the people who need this support. An important principle of the legislation is that it will ensure that the value of pensions is maintained, and it establishes the principle of twice yearly increases, which will ensure that this is a continuing commitment and it is one to which the Government is dedicated. 
The point has to be made that pensioners are among those disadvantaged groups in the community who cannot defend themselves against such insidious problems as inflation. I was particularly interested in some of the statistics provided by  Senator Grimes.  He referred to increases in pensions during the 3 years of the Labor Government, but the increases had to be as large as they were because of the inflation created by the policies of the Labor Government. One has to subtract from these increases the impact of inflation in assessing the real rate of increase of pensions. I think he referred to a figure beyond 90 per cent, but we could probably halve that figure once inflation is taken into account. I reiterate that it is the people on fixed incomes, and pensioners in particular, who are most vulnerable to the impact of inflation. This Bill provides a guard against inflation for people on fixed incomes, and I believe that is an important principle which ought to be supported by those on the opposite side of this chamber. I would therefore expect them to support the legislation. I quote from the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  a passage which I think says a great deal about the legislation and about the principles on which it is based. It reads: 
Unless inflation is brought under control there can be no genuine return to prosperity and no sound base for the Government to provide better and more effective assistance to the disadvantaged. 
This Bill then takes into account the 6.4 per cent increase in the consumer price index over the September and December quarters. It provides for increases over the range of pensions to accord with that. 
Another significant feature of the Bill is that it provides for more flexible means tests to bring more aged persons under the pension scheme, but that was dealt with at some length by  Senator Baume  and I do not propose to reiterate the points made by him. I emphasise that this Bill, in establishing in legislative form important principles on which this Government stands, is the beginning of reform with respect to pensions. It represents the beginning of a better deal for pensioners and a better deal for many other disadvantaged groups because it expresses principles to which this Government is dedicated. These principles were expressed in the Speech of the Governor-General when he referred to the fact that this Government is dedicated to establishing a truly liberal and humane society. That is what this Bill is all about. I therefore support it. 
I would like to refer to one particular aspect which gives me some concern. The benefits to which I have referred are very substantial. They are the most important element of the Bill. But the question of funeral benefits is one which concerns me to the extent that I have written to the Minister for Social Security raising with hertherefore, I also do it now- the question whether this decision might be reviewed. The amount involved is $1.7m. Whilst I think  Senator Colston  canvassed with a relative degree of success the fact that $40, the maximum amount of that benefit, is not a great deal to provide in the way of a funeral benefit in 1976, I believe it is not necessarily the amount in absolute terms which is important. The abolition of the benefit has had a substantial impact on many people who have made representations to me. For many, it is a matter of considerable emotional impact. I think it has to be recognised that many aged pensioners are almost entirely dependent on their pensions and that their sense of security comes from that. From the representations that I have received it would seem that many people place great weight on the availability to them of the funeral benefit, however small it may be in absolute terms. It is for these reasons that I have asked the Minister for Social Security whether this matter might be reconsidered and whether the decision might be reviewed. 
It is my understanding that of the $1.7m involved, a very large proportion was absorbed in administrative costs- in the administration of the benefit. I wonder whether there might be some means of cutting down on that aspect or whether consideration might be given to some other measures which would provide this element of assurance to many aged pensioners, particularly those who face conditions of poverty. There are 1 .7 million people who benefit from this Bill. The funeral benefit would apply to some 55 000 people only. I think the matter is worthy of the Minister's reconsideration. Having said that, I state that I support the Bill because I believe it establishes important new principles in respect of pensioners and the disadvantaged in the community. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Has the feasibility study completed by the Canberra Commercial Development Authority indicated that the Belconnen Shopping Mall project is economically and commercially viable; if so, is there now any problem in this respect preventing the Authority proceeding with this project; if not, what action is being taken to overcome the problems involved so that urgently needed shopping facilities can be provided in the Belconnen area as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What construction or other developmental projects are scheduled to commence in the older Canberra area of the Australian Capital Territory in the remainder of the financial year 1975-76. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What construction or other developmental projects are scheduled to commence in the Belconnen area of the Australian Capital Territory in the remainder of 1 975-76. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What construction or other developmental projects are scheduled to commence in the Woden Valley/Weston Creek areas of the Australian Capital Territory in the remainder of the financial year 1975-76. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What construction or other developmental projects are scheduled to commence in the Tuggeranong area of the Australian Capital Territory in the remainder of the financial year 1975-76. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What construction or other developmental projects are scheduled to commence in the Gungahlin area of the Australian Capital Territory in the remainder of the financial year 1975-76. 
I present the following petition from 208 residents of Turner, Australian Capital Territory: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned residents of Forbes Street, Turner, A.C.T. and their neighbours respectfully showeth that they object most strongly to the proposed development of between one hundred and one hundred and fifty family flats on the site between Condamine Court flats and Construction House. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should note that their main objections are: 
1 ) the resultant traffic congestion and noise and the inadequate off-street parking which would be exacerbated by this action; 
the air pollution already existing in the area would be greatly increased; 
the crowding of approximately 400 to 500 persons on the small amount of land available would create an overcrowded situation in what has until now been a reasonable residential area; and would suggest that up to fifty townhouse units be constructed after the existing traffic and air pollution problems have been examined and solutions devised. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 279 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the natural environment of Fraser Island is so outstanding that it should be identified as part of the World Natural Heritage, and whereas the Island should be conserved for the enjoyment of this and future generations, 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the members, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
1 ) that the Australian Government uses its constitutional powers to prohibit the export of any mineral sands from Fraser Island, and 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional authority to assist the Queensland Government and any other properly constituted body to develop and conserve the recreational, educational and scientific potentials of the natural environment of Fraser Island for the long term benefit of the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it correct that there is a very large number of unutilised places at commercially operated child care centres in Australia? Does this situation apply also in the Australian Capital Territory? Can the Minister indicate approximately how many such places are not used? Is it possible to consider some steps to ensure that these unused places are filled to avoid the need for more expensive capital works and to ensure that the funds available provide for the maximum number of children to obtain care in areas where there may already be existing child care facilities which are commercially operated but not fully utilised? Is it a fact that a special subsidy is paid in respect of children in special need at government centres? If so, can a similar subsidy be provided, on a similar basis, for children who attend or who would thus be able to attend, commercially operated child care centres so that these valuable existing facilities are fully utilised? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the number of (a) full-time and (b) pan-time teachers at the Canberra Technical College. 
What is the number of (a) part-time and (b) full-time students at the Canberra Technical College. 
3 ) What is the support staff at the College. 
Into what categories are support staff divided. 
5 ) How many are there in each category. 
In each of the above cases what were the equivalent figures at the same time in 1972, 1973, 1974and 1975. 
-I  present the following petition from 27 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that many Australians are concerned at the announced decision by the Australian Government to reduce the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote by $21 million, and by the abolition of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
We your petitioners do therefore humbly pray that the Australian Government: 
as a matter of urgency, reverse the decision to cut the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote, so as to ensure that the full amount appropriated by Parliament for Overseas Development Assistance is spent this financial year to meet the pressing needs of those in developing countries; 
reaffirm Australia's commitment of Overseas Development Assistance being a minimum of 0.7 per cent of GNP, and 
establish a fully independent statutory authority to administer Australia's official Overseas Development Assistance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition from 37 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that 
There is a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man-made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission, which was approved by both sides of this Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independent staff, resources and funds. 
That Technical Assistance Grants and Administrative Support Grants to community organisations are needed to  partially redress the gross imbalance in technical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the Government's program of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the budget allocations in these areas over that of 1 975-76. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister for Education whether it is a fact that ancillary staff in Australian Capital Territory schools will take strike action next Monday. If that is the case, can the Minister indicate why such action is proposed and whether some means can be found or considered to avert that industrial action which will adversely affect students at Australian Capital Territory schools? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Are tertiary allowances under the tertiary education assistance scheme available to Cambodian and Vietnamese refugees now living in Australia as settlers? If so, can the Minister indicate the conditions under which these allowances are paid to such refugees? Is the Minister able to say whether some refugees from Vietnam and Cambodia have been unable to obtain such allowances because they cannot be means tested as it is impossible to trace or assess their parents' means in their country of origin? What action can be taken if these people are refused assistance on such grounds? Have appeals been heard concerning people in such circumstances and can the Minister say whether some special consideration might be given to them in view of their situation as refugees? 
I rise to support this Bill because I believe it represents a major modification and improvement of the existing superannuation provisions for Commonwealth public servants. Clearly, the existing scheme is unnecessarily complicated, having been pieced together over the past 50 years. It is enormously costly to administer and includes provisions that lead to considerable hardship or concern on the part of contributors. In saying that, I should refer to the telegram from  Mr Turbett  read by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  which referred to the wish of Public Service organisations that this Bill be given speedy passage because it will overcome hardships arising from the existing scheme. I believe that the Bill represents an important reform measure, and indeed one of the most important reforms that will be introduced in this thirtieth Parliament. It represents the result of extensive negotiations and discussions with Public Service organisations and representatives. I would therefore question the statement of the Leader of the Opposition that this scheme has been 'imposed', to use his word, on Commonwealth public servants. In fact, it is the result of very extensive discussions and negotiations. An undertaking was given during the recent election campaign that this would be one of the first pieces of legislation introduced by the new Government, and this Bill represents the honouring of that undertaking. 
The Bill includes several important new features which make it in fact a better scheme than we had undertaken to provide originally, and I shall deal with some of those features in the course of my speech. There may be some areas in which further improvements can be made, and I shall deal also with some ideas on that matter subsequently. I want to make the point emphatically that the Bill not only represents a much improved, more rational and more readily administered scheme than the existing one but also offers a sensible and reasonable scheme, given the resources at our command and taking into consideration the interests of the community as a whole. I think public servants, because they are dedicated to the service of the nation and the people of Australia, appreciate that point perhaps better than most people. I believe they are to be congratulated for taking that point of view. 
Clearly there may be some problems associated with legislation as complex and as extensive as that before us. The Minister Assisting the Treasurer,  Mr Eric  Robinson, who was in charge of the legislation in the other place, has given an undertaking that should problems emerge they will be considered and, where necessary, dealt with. In his second reading speech he said: 
Should any shortcomings emerge as the new scheme gets into operation, the Government will, if it is appropriate, take action to remedy them. 
I have had discussions over recent months with representatives of Public Service unions on some of the possible problems that may emerge. I believe that we will solve those problems through co-operation and discussion. I take this opportunity to commend the forceful but constructive way in which public servants and their organisations and representatives have approached discussion and debate on this vital question affecting 300 000 people who are in the Public Service and who are employees of the Commonwealth Government. I reiterate here the assurances I have given them that I will work to ensure that the interests of all public servants and their families are fully guarded by this Parliament and the Party I represent. I believe this Bill does just that. 
Before going on to deal with some of the features of the legislation I take the opportunity to congratulate those public servants from the Treasury who have played an important role in preparing this legislation. The efforts of such dedicated and able public servants, I believe, too often go unnoticed or unnoted and I therefore record my congratulations and, indeed, my gratitude to them for the work that they have done. 
My colleague from the Australian Capital Territory has already referred to some of the innovative features of this legislation, and I believe it appropriate to list some of those. First of all, there is the uniform 5 per cent contribution provision, with an option to contribute up to 10 per cent. There is a wider range of benefits and coverage available to a greater number of full time Commonwealth employees. There is provision for the scheme to be extended to part time employees. There are improved benefits for the spouse of a deceased contributor and the children and orphans of contributors. There is the provision for the refund of contributions, plus interest, on resignation from the Commonwealth 
Public Service. There is provision for the preservation of benefits available after 5 years, rather than 20 years, of service. Clause 16 of the Bill, which deals with handicapped persons, is in fact a major innovation. Under the provisions of that clause handicapped persons can now go straight into the pension scheme as eligible employees. Membership of the scheme of Provident Account contributors and eligibility for full pension benefits after 20 years service are also provided. I emphasise that those people in the Provident Account at the moment will retain the right to opt to take the entire amount of their pension as a lump sum, as is now provided. It should also be pointed out, I think, that from 1 July there will be no Provident Account under the new scheme and that in fact all pensioners will be part of the overall scheme. 
I refer also to the innovations relating to women public servants, particularly the introduction of equality of benefits and the preservation of benefits while the career of a public servant is interrupted for such reasons as the rearing of a family. Of course, the provision relating to part time employees is likely to have special relevance to women public servants. 
Given these factors, I find it difficult to understand the reasons for the amendment proposed by the Opposition. The Opposition makes the point in its amendment that this legislation removes some important benefits now applying under the current Superannuation Act, thereby reducing the overall value of benefits for existing pensioners and contributors. That is not the case. In fact, it does not reduce benefits. It does introduce a number of important innovations. It does provide for improved benefits. Neither of the speakers from the Opposition side has given us one example of any benefit under the existing Superannuation Act which has been removed by this legislation. It is surprising that the honourable member for Fraser in another place,  Mr Fry,  should describe this new scheme, as he did in his speech in another place, as 'a tragedy'. I think it is also to be regretted that he should suggest that the new scheme might lead to a less efficient Commonwealth Public Service. He said: 
I have no doubt that the scheme will lead to a more expensive and less efficient Public Service for the people of Australia. 
I believe a statement like that suggests a lack of confidence in the integrity and capacity of the Commonwealth Public Service and casts an aspersion on public servants from which I totally dissociate myself. It also misrepresents the impact and effect of the scheme which we are introducing.  Mr Fry  seems to forget that this Bill provides a very substantially improved scheme which has been accepted by Public Service organisations as such. 
I would like to deal with some cases, including the question of retirement at 60 in particular, to illustrate the effect of this Bill and the new superannuation scheme. The Opposition has used every means, including an amendment which defies understanding, in an attempt to denigrate this legislation. Yet in a detailed table submitted by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  in another place setting out relevant benefits under superannuation schemes in the States as compared with this new superannuation scheme for the Commonwealth it is made clear that only contributors to the New South Wales scheme will be any better off than those contributing to the new Commonwealth scheme. It is especially significant, I believe, that of the examples of benefits for retirement at age 60 given in that table, only the lower income example for the State of New South Wales alone is better than that applying under the Commonwealth scheme. In all other cases, in all other States, the Commonwealth benefit is greater. I think we are indebted to the honourable member for Gellibrand for confirming the value of the scheme to which this Bill will give effect. I add one further point which is relevant to the table. It refers to the maximum contribution under the Commonwealth scheme as being 10 per cent, without any reference to the fact that that degree of contribution is optional and that only 5 per cent contribution is compulsory under the new scheme. He apparently makes no adjustment in the table for some of the contributor's share being paid as a lump sum payment plus interest as could have occurred in the examples which are given. He thus probably understates the benefit under this new scheme which would be based on a 10 per cent contribution. This serves only to emphasise again the value of the new scheme to participants. To illustrate this point, I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the relevant figures to which I have referred in the form of a table setting out the benefits under various State schemes compared with the new Commonwealth scheme. 

<graphic href="068232197605040_42_2.jpg"></graphic>

I have referred already to some of the disparaging comments about the Commonwealth Public Service made in another place by the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  in his speech on this Bill. I wish now to deal with 2 specific cases to which he referred, on which he gave misleading information, reaching as a result totally erroneous conclusions. I believe that this is unfortunate as it leads to great concern and anxiety in the community particularly the community which I represent in which there are 35 000 Commonwealth public servants. I believe that such misinformation should be cleared up as quickly as possible. The Minister responsible for this Bill in another place when responding to  Mr Fry's  statement said that  Mr Fry  was apparently 'misled by correspondence which he has received and from which he has drawn his examples'. But the honourable member for Fraser apparently did not even bother to check that information. I therefore sought more detailed advice from the Minister on these cases. This information is of great importance to many people who have expressed concern about retirement at age 60 under the existing scheme compared with the proposals introduced by this Bill. To clarify the situation, I quote from a letter  on the matter that I received from the Minister. It reads: 
You would be aware that on 6 April 1976 I responded in the House to  Mr Fry's  comments on the disadvantages involved for the individuals in the two cases he mentioned. As I stated then, it is a gross distortion to compare the total pension with no right to a lump sum, as is available under the present scheme, with only the Government-financed pension under the new scheme without taking into account the additional pension or the substantial lump sum that is also available. 
In both the cases mentioned by  Mr Fry,  he has stated that additional standard Government-financed pension would be available on retirement at age 60. However, for a member to Qualify for additional standard Government-financed pension he would need to have completed more than 30 years contributory service and not, as stated by  Mr Fry,  less than 20 years contributory service. Further, it would seem apparent from the percentages quoted in  Mr Fry's  examples, that both individuals would have completed about 40 or more years service. The amount of contributions paid over a period of 40 years, and accumulated with interest over this period, would be in relative terms a substantial sum that will be available to purchase a significant contributor-financed pension. This additional pension has been omitted by  Mr Fry  in his comparisons. 
Also,  Mr Fry  has omitted any reference to the supplement to the Government-financed pension that was designed to protect existing contributors in respect of any age 60 units they hold at 30 June 1976. I understand that a copy of a Treasury Paper on this pension supplement has been forwarded to you. 
In summary, an existing age 60 contributor who retired at age 60 with more than 20 years contributory service will, under the provisions of the new scheme, receive: 
Forty-five per cent of final salary as a standard age retirement Government-financed pension; 
a Government-financed supplement of pension in respect of any age 60 units held at 30 June 1976 according to the formula outlined in the abovementioned Treasury Paper; and 
additional age retirement pension: (A member may elect to receive in lieu of this additional age retirement pension a refund of his contributions plus interest.) 
Where such a member has contributed for more than 30 years he will receive additional standard Governmentpension up to a maximum of 214 per cent for 40 years contributory service. 
Because of its relevance to that letter, I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the Treasury paper referred to. It is a document referring to the impact of age 60 retirement. 
NEW SUPERANNUATION SCHEME PENSION SUPPLEMENT IN RESPECT OF AGE 60 UNITS 
The Minister Assisting the Treasurer,  Mr Eric  L. Robinson, said in his announcement about the new superannuation scheme on 12 February 1976 that:  Present pension scheme contributors will be protected in respect of any age 60 retirement units that they hold under a formula that will have regard to present salary, unit entitlement, age 60 units held, length of contributory service to date and prospective contributory service to age 59V4 years when, on average, age 60 unit contributions could be expected to cease.' 
The formula will establish Government-financed supplements of pension for retirement between ages 60 to 65 in respect of all age 60 units held at 30 June 1976; these supplements will be payable in addition to the Governmentfinanced pension available under the new scheme. 
The formula gives results that reflect the difference between: the level of Government-financed pension, expressed as a percentage of salary, for each age 60 unit under the present scheme; and the percentage of salary Government-financed pension under the new scheme on retirement between ages 60 and 65. 
The difference is multiplied by the number of age 60 units held and the proportion (not exceeding 1 ) that actual contributory service at 30 June 1976 bears to prospective contributory service to age 59!6. 
In any individual case the supplement will be larger for retirement at age 60 and will be less for retirement after that age as the new scheme pension percentage comes closer to the present pension scheme level. In most cases the breakeven point, i.e. when the supplement is nil, will be reached not later than age  65  although in cases where there has been long contributory service and/or salary is high it will be earlier; in a few cases it will be as early as age 60. 
The formula will mean that persons who have completed their age 60 contributions or have reached age 59Vi by 30 June 1976 while still contributing for age 60 units, will receive on retirement full value for the Governmentfinanced element of age 60 units. 
The supplement relates to the Government-financed element of pension only. The higher contributions that have been paid for age 60 units will provide a larger stake in the Fund at 1 July 1976 than if age 65 contributions had been paid. This larger stake will accumulate at interest until retirement and will be available as additional pension or, alternatively, as a lump sum. 
Advantages of the formula are: 
Age 60 contributors now paying high levels of contributions will not need to continue to pay those contributions to qualify for the supplement. 
It will enable the early determination, after commencement of the new scheme, of the age 60 unit pension supplements that will be payable on retirement at or after age 60. 
Administratively, the formula is relatively simple to apply and will not require the maintenance of age 60 contribution records until retirement. 
The Formula 
The pension supplement additional to the Governmentfinanced pension benefit will be an amount per annum ascertained in accordance with the formula- 

<graphic href="068232197605040_44_3.jpg"></graphic>

As this analysis shows, the situation for those wishing to retire at age 60 under the new scheme is somewhat different from the position as represented by some people. The basic position was stated by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  in the House of Representatives on 25 March in these words: 
It is true that in the new scheme the full government financed pension is not available until retirement at age 65, but for persons with long service that pension is higher than the maximum government financed element of the pension available under the present scheme. Most age 60 contributors to varying extents would have attained higher government financed pension at age 60 under the present scheme if they maintained their age 60 unit contributions until their retirement. This, however, would leave them with a greatly diminished take-home salary in the years immediately preceding their retirement. The special age 60 unit pension supplement in the new scheme gives value for age 60 contributions to date. If age 60 contributions have been completed or the person has reached 5916 years it will give full value for age 60 units. The supplement will not require members to continue to pay high age 60 contributions until retirement. Finally, the Australian Government Employees Combined Superannuation Co-ordinating Committee accepts the supplement formula as a reasonable basis for dealing with age 60 units. 
Because of the importance of this question of age 60 retirement and of the costs to contributors, I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard, papers prepared by the Treasury setting out a number of cases and the amounts that would be required to be contributed at various levels. 
Contributions to attain full Government-financed benefits at age 60. 
To maintain their full entitlement to a full Governmentfinanced pension on retirement at age 60 under the present scheme, contributors are required to contribute for additional units as they become due. 
Broadly for contributors, other than those on higher salaries an increase of $130 pa in salary requires contributors to contribute for another unit. Contributions in respect of each unit depend on the age at which the entitlement arises. 
The following table illustrates the proportions of salary increases which an age 60 contributor to the present scheme would have to pay to maintain his entitlement to a full Government-financed pension on retirement at age 60. 

<graphic href="068232197605040_44_4.jpg"></graphic>

In summary, the additional superannuation contributions required at ages 57 and above exceed the gross amount of salary increase. increasing rates of superannuation contribution in respect of salary increases, increase the overall percentage of total gross salary required to pay superannuation contributions to maintain full unit entitlement. 
When the incidence of taxation is taken into account take home pay could be expected to reduce as a result of increasing superannuation contributions between ages 53 and 55. 
The following are examples of the higher rates of contribution being made by persons approaching retirement to attain full benefits at age 60. 
Examples 
. Second Division Officer ( Level 1 )- Male- Aged 58. Salary at 4 February 1976, $21,338 pa. Contributions: 41.7 per cent of gross salary. 
Third Division Officer (Class 1 1 )-Male-Aged 55. Salary at 4 February 1976, $18, 136 pa. Contributions: 24.6 per cent of gross salary. 
Third Division Officer (Class 9)-Male-Aged 57. Salary at 4 February 1976, $15,757 per annum. Contributions: 39.3 per cent of gross salary. 
Fourth Division Officer (CA6)-Female-Aged 59. Salary at 4 February 1976, $8,932 per annum. Contributions: 67.6 per cent of gross salary. 

<graphic href="068232197605040_45_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="068232197605040_45_6.jpg"></graphic>

There are 3 other general matters on which I wish to comment. The first is the question of age 65 retirement. Needless to say, the new scheme will mean much better benefits for those retiring from the Commonwealth Public Service at 65 years of age. I have dealt at length with the position of those retiring at age 60 simply because of the many representations that I have received on that aspect and because so many people were concerned as to the impact of the legislation with respect to age 60 retirement and, in some cases, were apparently misled about it. I simply make the point that under the existing scheme on age 65 retirement, the best possible result for a contributor is to receive 70 per cent of his final salary as pension. Under the new scheme, the best possible result will be for a contributor to receive 72.5 per cent of final salary with the possibility of an additional lump sum payment. This, of course, requires a substantial period of service but well illustrates the improved benefits of the new scheme. 
Secondly, there, have been many comments suggesting that the formula for updating pensions is inadequate. However, it is in conformity with the criteria now used for the updating of pensions. The calculations that one frequently sees on this question do not include the provision of a lump sum plus interest on retirement which obviously will become either a source of direct or indirect income to the recipient and thus should be included as a benefit when discussing the pension. Thirdly, I comment briefly on the question of contract or election to retire at age 60 under this scheme. My understanding is that under the existing scheme a public servant agrees to contribute at a certain level and to purchase units accordingly. No contract as to retirement age is entered into. In other words, the elections under the present Superannuation Act are elections to contribute on a specific basis, not elections to retire at specific ages. In response to my colleague from the Australian Capital Territory who spoke earlier in this debate, I say that the new scheme, as the tables which I have incorporated indicate, will encourage people in many cases, I believe, to retire at age 60 as she has suggested. 
I think that one point must be made concerning this scheme, if only as a forewarning, as it is a matter which has rarely been raised in any public or parliamentary debate on this Bill. I refer to the fact that more than half of Australia's Commonwealth public servants will find after 1 July that they will be paying higher contributions to the superannuation fund. This will apply particularly to younger members of the Public Service. These people at present may be paying considerably less than 5 per cent of their salary into the Superannuation Fund. They will be paying an increased contribution after 1 July. I raise this matter because it may cause some doubts later if people have not considered fully or have not been fully aware of the impact of the new scheme in this respect. 
But this point has to be emphasised: The slightly increased payment at this stage will mean very substantially smaller payments later on in the careers of the public servants so affected. What may suddenly seem a disadvantage under the new scheme is a long term advantage for all contributors, as was indicated in the table to which I have referred already and which has now been incorporated in  Hansard.  I should make the point also that these increased payments or contributions by those who are currently paying less than 3 per cent of their salary in superannuation will be introduced progressively under the legislation over about a 2-year period. 
I would like to refer to a couple of specific cases which I believe are of significance. The first relates to the Australian Capital Territory Police Force, the Northern Territory Police Force and the Commonwealth police. I received recently special representations concerning the impact of the new scheme on members of these police forces from the Secretary of the Police Association of the Australian Capital Territory,  Mr Oldroyd,  who is also the Assistant Secretary of the Police Federation of Australia. He raised a number of issues which concern particularly the level of contributions and the benefits available on retirement, particularly for those officers retiring at age 60 years.  Mr Oldroyd  said in his letter, and I would endorse his sentiments: 
In no other industry is there a greater need to have a satisfactory pension scheme. My members are trained and orientated to police work and they are very restricted in taking other employment after retirement. We would claim that our members are called upon more than any other group to devote themselves to the needs of government and people. 
I therefore took up this matter with the Minister who provided a reply which I believe answers the reservations expressed by the Secretary of the Police Association of the Australian Capital Territory.  Mr President,  I seek leave of the Senate to incorporate in  Hansard  the text of the Minister's reply on those issues. 
Treasurer 
Parliament House Canberra 2600 

 Senator J. W. Knight 6th Floor 
City Mutual Building Hobart Place Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 
Dear  Senator Knight 
I refer to your letter of 5 Apr 1 976 in which you enclosed a copy of a letter from the Secretary of the Police Association of the A.C.T.,  Mr A.  J. Oldroyd, concerning the new superannuation scheme for Commonwealth employees. 
The new scheme is designed to be flexible enough to provide adequate benefits for the various categories of Commonwealth employees some of whom will have earlier maximum retirement ages than age 65, such as the A.C.T. Police Force. In the design of the scheme careful consideration was given as to the appropriate levels of Government-financed pension where retirement precedes attainment of age 65. One consideration was the level of benefits payable in other superannuation schemes in both the public and private sectors and in this respect the new scheme provides Government-financed benefits on retirement at age 60 that compare very favourably with the employer-financed share of benefits in most schemes in the private sector. Another consideration was that the younger the age at which a pension commences, on average, the longer it is payable. This of course means that it is more costly to finance pensions of a particular level commencing at younger ages than it is to finance the same level of pensions commencing at age 65. 
It is true that under the present superannuation scheme most age 60 contributors, other than those on higher salaries, would attain higher Government-financed pensions on retirement at age 60 than under the new scheme, provided they maintained their age 60 contributions until their retirement. This however would leave them with little or no take-home' salary in the years preceding their retirement. Recent experience has shown that relatively few contributors who could attain a Government-financed pension of 50 per cent of salary on retirement at age 60 have in fact done so. The new scheme Government-financed pension levels of 45 per cent of salary on retirement at age 60 after 30 years contributory service (20 years for most existing contributors) and 47'A after 40 years, will be higher in most cases than the actual levels of Government-financed pension that have been realised by contributors who have retired at age 60 in recent years under the present scheme. 

 Mr Oldroyd has mentioned the high incidence of invalidity retirement in the Police Force and in this situation benefits under the new scheme are no less beneficial than under the present scheme. It is true that invalidity pensions will be higher in most cases than the level of pension payable on retirement at age 60. However the younger the age a person is required to retire on invalidity grounds the less time he has had for advancement in the Police Force. Also, as pension is related to final salary at retirement, where a person retires before attaining age 60, his Government-financed pension will usually be lower than if he had retired at age 60 when he would have had the benefit of further salary increases. 
On the question of contributions under the new scheme contributors will not be required to pay the high rates of contribution necessary under the present scheme in the years preceding retirement to attain full Government-financed benefits. One of the features of the new scheme is that contributors will only be obliged to pay 5 per cent of salary as compulsory basic contributions with the option to pay supplementary contributions. 
Younger contributors presently paying less than 5 per cent of salary as contributions under the present scheme will be required to pay a higher rate under the new scheme. However under the transitional arrangements this increase to 5 per cent will be gradual. These contributors will, however, not have to pay heavy rates of contribution in later life as is presently the case to attain full Government-financed benefits. 
In summary, I consider that the new scheme will provide members of the Police Force with attractive benefits on retirement and require reasonable levels of contributions. 
Yours sincerely 
ERIC L. ROBINSON 
Minister Assisting the Treasurer 
Finally, I would like to deal with the question dealt with by my colleague,  Senator Walters,  and also by my colleague from the Australian Capital Territory,  Senator Ryan,  namely, that of divorcees and the relevance of this Bill to them. The Bill, as it stands, makes special provision for distribution between a  de facto  and a separated legal spouse in the case of death of the contributor. In clause 1 10 of the Bill, the Commissioner for Superannuation is empowered, as  Senator Walters  pointed out, to apportion a benefit according to dependency. I believe that this is a very important principle which the Bill introduces. But it is one which does not carry through to provide for definition of a basis of dependency between a second legal spouse or a  de facto  spouse on the one hand and a divorced spouse on the other hand. But a divorced spouse during the time of marriage to a contributor in fact would have contributed to the scheme to allow for benefits to be provided later. In particular, it is recognised, as it always has been, that the pension for which contributions are made may well be a widow's pension and special provision is made for this. Given these factors, it would seem somewhat inconsistent that no provision whatever is made for some portion of a pension to go to a divorced spouse on the death of a contributor. Under the present scheme and under the scheme proposed by this Bill, all benefits go to the legal wife or a  de facto  wife and none whatever to a divorced spouse. I therefore urge that consideration be given to amending the Bill to provide for some proportion of the benefits from a pension of a deceased contributor to go to a divorced spouse as well as to the legal or  de facto  spouse at the time of the contributor's death. 
I recognise, as my colleague from the Australian Capital Territory has mentioned, that there are other dependants who may be considered when looking at this aspect of the Bill or at possible amendments to it. But those issues have to be faced because I believe not to provide, as a minimum, for a divorced spouse may well be inconsistent with principles expressed elsewhere in the Bill. I have written to the Minister,  Mr Eric  Robinson, on this matter and I have received a reply from him in the following terms: 
As you are aware, a divorced spouse has no entitlement to a spouse's pension under either the present Superannuation Scheme or that proposed in the Superannuation Bill 1976. The new scheme provides benefits for  de jure  and  de facto  spouses and children living with the scheme member at the time of death or, if not living with the member, if they were substantially dependent on the member at the time of death. Where there is a member who has both a  de jure  and  de facto  spouse at the time of death and both were substantially dependent on him, the Superannuation Bill makes provision for the spouse's pension to be apportioned between the two eligible spouse pensioners. In making a determination as to the relative shares, the Commissioner for Superannuation would have regard to the respective needs of those persons and to such other matters as he considers relevant. 
No other persons, whether related to or dependent on the deceased member, are provided for by way of pension under the new scheme. Divorced wives are only one category of persons who might be wholly or in part dependent upon a member on his death but who do not qualify for pension benefits. 
The question of extending spouses' pensions in whole or in part to divorced wives raised a number of issues and implications which the Government would have to take into consideration. Any such extension would require amendment of the Superannuation Bill 1976 presently before the Parliament. 
The Government has said that should any shortcomings emerge as the new scheme gets into operation, it will, if it is appropriate, take action to remedy them. 
The last 2 paragraphs of the Minister's response are of considerable significance. The second-last paragraph indicates a willingness, that the Minister has confirmed in discussions that I have had with him, to consider amendments; though it is recognised as I have mentioned already that considerable and substantial implications are involved in any such consideration. The final paragraph accepts that any shortcomings in the scheme will be remedied. I believe that this aspect of the Bill should be reconsidered with a view to amendment not only in accordance with  what would seem to me to be the legitimate claims of those concerned but also in accordance with the principles expressed in the Bill. 
I believe that this is a major piece of reform legislation. I support it wholeheartedly. I accept the fact that there may be defects and that these should be considered subsequently for possible amendment if necessary. Others may emerge as this new and very important scheme comes into operation. In supporting the Bill, I oppose and remain puzzled, to say the least, by the nature of the amendment moved by the Opposition. I believe that the amendment as it stands is irrelevant to this legislation. It is inaccurate in its reference to existing legislation. I therefore oppose it as firmly as I support this important legislation relating to superannuation for Commonwealth public servants. 
-I present the following petition from 227 residents of Forbes Street, Turner, Australian Capital Territory: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned residents of Forbes Street, Turner. Australian Capital Territory and their neighbours respectfully showeth that they object most strongly to the proposed development of between one hundred and one hundred and fifty family flats on the site between Condamine Court flats and Construction House. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should note that their main objections are: 
the resultant traffic congestion and noise and the inadequate off-street parking which would be exacerbated by this action; 
the air pollution already existing in the area would be greatly increased; 
the crowding of approximately 400 to 500 persons on the small amount of land available would create an overcrowded situation in what has until now been a reasonable residential area; and would suggest that up to fifty townhouse units be constructed after the existing traffic and air pollution problems have been examined and solutions devised. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That as of the 29th March 1976 opening hours of the Australian National Library have been reduced to the following times: Wednesday and Thursday, 9.30 a.m. to 10.00 p.m.; Monday, Tuesday, Friday, Saturday and Public Holidays, 9.30 a.m. to 4.45 p.m.; Sunday, 1 .30 p.m. to 4.45 p.m. 
That the expenditure cutbacks and consequent reduction in the hours of opening of the Australian National Library have seriously disadvantaged part-time students who are able to devote only evening hours to study. 
That because of the reduced hours of operation, students, particularly those in the Arts Faculties, have a very limited time available in which to consult primary source material held at the Australian National Library. 
That the suspension of purchasing of books on an individual basis, and of university theses on micro-film will seriously disadvantage research students. 
That the Australian National University Library and the Canberra College of Advanced Education have only limited collections, both requiring to be complemented by the Australian National Library collections. 
That the lowering of educational standards as a consequence of the restrictions on educational facilities, would result in immeasurable non-economic cost to the community. 
That the Senate be notified that a similar petition has been handed to the House of Representatives with 2140 signatures. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that the Australian National Library be accessible to readers 9.30 a.m. to 10.00 p.m. daily. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask a question of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development which in some respects is related to the question just asked. My question concerns reports that Commonwealth Hostels Ltd proposes to close Lawley House, one of its hostels in the Australian Capital Territory. I ask the question because of the concern that has been expressed by many residents of Lawley House about this possibility. If consideration is being given to this matter, will he indicate the reasons for which closure of Lawley House is being considered? I further ask: Will the Minister ensure that careful consideration is given not only to the economic or financial aspects of the question but also to the interests of the residents of Lawley House, particularly long-term residents, and to the employees currently working at Lawley House? 
I have to express my puzzlement at the nature of the urgency motion moved by the Opposition. It would seem in some respects to be an attempt to adopt a bi-partisan approach in respect to the tragic situation in East Timor and, in a sense, no doubt to assist members of the Opposition in salving their consciences because of the inaction of the government of which they were a part. I do not think that anyone would decry an effort to establish a bi-partisan approach to be expressed by this Parliament, that the fighting and conflict in East Timor should end, that the bloodshed suffered by the people of East Timor should end and that the undeserved, unwarranted and extreme suffering of the people of East Timor should end. But I am puzzled even more by the fact that  Senator Gietzelt  should suggest that the present Government has remained passive. If that were the case, one could only ask how he would describe the attitude taken by the previous Government. 
When  Senator Wheeldon  says that there are avenues open and that there is action that can be taken even beyond the action that has been taken through the United Nations and in blunt talking to Indonesian officials and leaders privately and publicly by this Government- this was not done by the former Government- I ask-. What other action can be taken? What does he propose? He says that he is not in favour of armed intervention. Of course, he is not. No one here would be. But we have taken action through the United Nations. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  visited Indonesia. The statements, in private and public, as  Senator Button  conceded, have been forthright and, as I have said already, blunt as to our attitude about what the Indonesians ought to do. We have said that they should withdraw, let the International Red Cross teams enter the country, let more humanitarian aid into the country and bring an end to the suffering of the Timorese people. We have stated that Indonesia should allow a proper act of free self-determination to take place. We have done all this. What more does  Senator Wheeldon  suggest? What more does  Senator Gietzelt  suggest? What more does  Senator Button  suggest? We are open to suggestions. At least we have spoken up publicly and privately. 
I am puzzled also by the approach taken by  Senator Button  when he says that the Parliament has not discussed this issue sufficiently. Even during the period of this Government it has been raised dozens of times. It has been raised in the form of questions. It has been referred to at length in a statement on foreign policy issued by the Foreign Minister. I might add also that it was first raised formally in the Parliament by the present Foreign Minister when he was the shadow Foreign Minister, on 25 February 1975, at a time when the then Labor Government had failed to take any action to prevent what was clearly a chance of invasion by Indonesian forces. I remind honourable senators of the terms of the matter of public importance raised by the then Opposition in another place. It was raised on the basis of the then Labor Government's equivocal attitude towards the future of East Timor and its failure to take urgent action to ensure a solution in accordance with the wishes of the East Timorese people and in the interests of the region'. So honourable senators can see that this issue was first raised in the Parliament by the Parties which are now the Government. We raised it because of the failure of the then Labor Government to take any action not to end but to prevent suffering of the East Timorese people. I well remember in - 
I will deal with that later. I remember in 1974 when Ramos Horta first visited Australia and the Labor Government's Foreign Minister refused to see him. I saw him on that occasion as did the shadow Foreign Minister. But the Labor Foreign Minister of Australia did not see him. On that occasion Ramos Horta represented Fretilin. We saw him because we wanted to hear his views and at least find out what was happening in East Timor. He warned then- in July 1974-1 think I have that date correctthat an Indonesian invasion of East Timor was likely. Indeed, he feared at that time- even in 1974- that it was imminent. 
I understand he spoke to the Committee and on a subsequent visit to the Foreign Minister, I think. But he did not speak to him on the first occasion. I refer also to a letter by  Mr Jim  Dunn, a man who knows East Timor and who represented Australia there. It was published in December 1975.  Mr Dunn  refers to the invasion of East Timor and says: 
It should be noted, however, that the invasion of East Timor did not begin with Saturday's attack. 
That is in the first week of December 1975. 
For more than 2 months the so-called civil war in East Timor has been largely a conflict between Indonesian troops engaged in a covert limited operation and the forces of Fretilin. 
If we are to refer to intelligence information available to governments, one must surely suspect that the Labor Government in the 2 months before that time was well aware of what was happening in East Timor. But nothing was done about it. Nothing was said about it. On that basis, let us look at the origins of the Indonesian invasion. In 1974, the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  held talks with  President  Suharto- as I recall, on 2 occasions. Out of those talks have come stories, never denied, that  Mr Whitlam  indicated to  President  Suharto that East Timor could properly form a pan of Indonesia. I refer to an article by  Mr Peter  Hastings which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 1 3 December 1975. The author referred to talks held on 30 September 1974 in which he says  Mr Whitlam  told  President  Suharto at a meeting in central Java: 
. that an independent Timor would be an unviable State and a potential threat to the area. 
I understand that statement was made in a briefing by an official to journalists.  Senator Button  refers to the  realpolitik  approach of governments- that is, the attitude that small states are not viable and that they create difficulties for larger states. One can only ask whether the attitude that East Timor would be unviable and that therefore it ought properly to be part of Indonesia is not the ultimate  realpolitik  approach. I will read on from this article: 
The Press briefing officer added that: *. . . the Prime Minister is, nevertheless, thought to have made it clear that the people of the colony should have the ultimate decision on their future'. 
It would be cynical to assert that  Mr Whitlam  gave mere lip-service to the notion of self-determination, but it came close to it. How could he have believed in self-determination processes as being viable for Portuguese Timor when he had already given the game away as revealed in a Foreign Affairs background press paper for September 11, 1974 (25 days before he addressed the General Assembly) which read in pan:  . . accordingly Australia appreciates Indonesia's concern over the future of the territory and shares its belief that voluntary union of Portuguese Timor (with Indonesia) on the basis of an internationally accepted act of selfdetermination would seem to serve the objective of decolonisation and at the same time the interest of stability in the region?' 
I will quote also from a statement in the  Nation Review  journal which cannot be accused of being an outspoken supporter of the Government. The  Nation Review  of 1 9 September 1 974 stated: 
Portuguese Timor may well be part of Indonesia within a few years, if not sooner. Last week's amicable talks between  Mr Whitlam  and  President  Suharto in Jogjakarta set the stage for the merger of the Portuguese colony with its huge Indonesian neighbour. 
1974. 1 applaud many of the sentiments expressed today by honourable senators opposite but one can only ask where they were in 1974 and 1975. Where was  Mr Fry  and where was  Mr Hawke  when all of this began and when the tragedy occurred? Where were they then? We well know that they are prepared to give lip service to democratic institutions, to freedom and to self-determination.  Senator Gietzelt  this afternoon asserted that aggression should be condemned wherever it occurs. What attitude did members of the previous Government take to the Baltic States- an end to freedom; an end to democracy; an end to selfdetermination. They accepted that. It would seem that the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was prepared to accept that attitude in relation also to East Timor. 
I would like to refer to some of the actions taken by the present Government since coming to power. Shortly after coming to power and when the major invasion by Indonesian troops occurred, on 1 1 December, Australia supported a United Nations Trusteeship Committee resolution which called on Indonesia to withdraw from Portuguese Timor immediately. If one is to question the independence of this Government in foreign policy, one might point out that on that occasion Australia was not on the same side as the United States of America and New Zealand. We knew where we stood and we were prepared to make it clear to everybody, including the Indonesians. On the following day, the General Assembly- in a resolution passed by 72 votes to 10 votes, with Australia voting for the resolution -called on Indonesia to withdraw from East Timor to enable the people to decide their own future. That resolution condemned Indonesian intervention. What could be clearer than that as to the stand of this Government? I understand that the Indonesians were surprised. After the attitude of the previous Government, it is possible to understand why they were surprised that a government in Australia should take that action because previously their actions had effectively been condoned. 
This Government has called repeatedly in the United Nations, in talks with the Indonesians and publicly here in Australia for the readmission of the International Red Cross to East Timor. We know that the Indonesian Red Cross is working there. We applaud their efforts. But the International Red Cross must be permitted to go back into East Timor with a full-scale operation. Humanitarian aid, which we stand ready to provide, also must be permitted into East Timor. We have taken action to assist the representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations to visit East Timor. 
The question has been raised about the Government's action concerning a transmitter in Darwin.  Senator Wheeldon  pointed out that it was an illegal transmitter. The question was raised whether the information being passed by it was in fact entirely civilian and whether, if it were not, Australia might be involved indirectly in the conflict. In those circumstances the Government felt, rightly, that that transmitter ought to be closed. At the same time we were prepared to provide facilities to assist the United Nations Secretary-General's representative to visit Timor. We undertook negotiations with the Portuguese and with the Indonesians to that end. We assisted in the use of Telecom Australia through Darwin. 
I point out that the question of communications played no part in the problems which occurred with that visit by the envoy of the United Nations Secretary-General to East Timor. It was a fact that the Fretilin forces did not control areas which he wished to visit and were unable to arrange for him to visit areas which he had hoped to visit. It was not a matter of communications. In fact, as I understand it, Telecom Australia is still receiving messages from East Timor and is passing them on to addressees. 
I believe that this Government's action is bearing fruit. There are signs of movement on the part of the Indonesians. There is some suggestion that they may begin to withdraw troops. There is a suggestion also that they may allow the International Red Cross back into East Timor to conduct effective operations. Questions are raised, as I mentioned earlier, by people who claim that more must be done. I believe that everything that can effectively be done has been done. As circumstances change, further action will be possible. This Government will take the necessary action.  Senator Gietzelt  accused the Government of a 'hands off' attitude. I think the evidence refutes that. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Has the Minister seen a report in today's  Canberra Times  that 69 per cent of residents in the Tuggeranong area of the Australian Capital Territory favour the construction of a television translator tower on Mount Taylor to improve poor television reception in Tuggeranong? Will the Minister have the needs of Tuggeranong residents in this respect examined urgently to discover whether such a translator tower might appropriately be contructed? Will the Minister ensure that in examining this matter, careful consideration is given to the possible impact on the environment of Mount Taylor and that before any action is taken to construct the tower, a detailed environmental impact study is prepared? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory's (a) retail, (b) restaurant, (c) cinema, (d) indoor sporting/recreation, (e) outdoor sporting/recreation, (f) primary schools, (g) secondary schools, (h) pre-schools, (i) childcare, (j) playgrounds, and (k) park land facilities has been established in the Canberra area of the Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What action is currently being taken to provide indoor recreation facilities at Belconnen in the Australian Capital Territory. 
When will such facilities be completed and where will they be located. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What action is currently being taken to provide indoor recreation facilities at Tuggeranong in the Australian Capital Territory. 
When will such facilities be completed and where will they be located. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory's (a) retail, (b) restaurant, (c) cinema, (d) indoor sporting/recreation, (e) outdoor sporting/recreation, (f) primary schools, (g) secondary schools, (h) pre-schools, (i) childcare, (j) playgrounds, and (k) park land facilities has been established in the Tuggeranong area of the Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory's (a) retail, (b) restaurant, (c) cinema, (d) indoor sporting/recreation, (e) outdoor sporting/recreation, (f) primary schools, (g) secondary schools, (h) pre-schools, (i) childcare, (j) playground, and (k) park land facilities has been established in the Woden Valley-Weston Creek areas of the Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory's (a) retail, (b) restaurant, (c) cinema, (d) indoor sporting/recreation, (e) outdoor sporting/recreation, (f) primary schools, (g) secondary schools, (h) pre-schools, (i) childcare, (j) playground, and (k) park land facilities has been established in the Belconnen area of the Territory. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health noted reports to the effect that nurses in the Australian Capital Territory are anxious that a full-time commissioner with a nursing background be appointed to the Australian Capital Territory Health Commission. Is the Minister able to say whether such a commissioner will be appointed and, if so, when that might be done? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What action is currently being taken to provide indoor recreation facilities in the Woden Valley- Weston areas of the Australian Capital Territory. 
When will such facilities be completed and where will they be located. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) On what thoroughfares in the Australian Capital Territory and for what distances are there special express bus lanes. 
What vehicles, other than buses, are permitted to use these lanes and in what circumstances. 
In the case of each such express bus lane, what is the frequency of use by specified vehicles. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Was consideration given to utilising the MoombaSydney Gas Pipeline to provide gas supplies to the Australian Capital Territory. 
What form has this consideration taken and what has been the outcome. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Are plans under consideration for the establishment of a National Park in the southern part of the Australian Capital Territory. 
What stage has this planning reached arid what area is it proposed should be covered by a National Park. 
-As the Minister to whom I wished to address my question is not present, I direct it to  Senator Cotton.  I refer to the recent report of the Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections which recommended measures to preserve Australia's cultural and historical materials, both as a means of preserving our natural heritage and of protecting some hundreds of millions of dollars worth of materials in Australia's major collections, including material valued at over $100m in the National War Memorial. Does the Government propose to take measures, legislative or educational, to preserve such materials in galleries, libraries and museums throughout Australia? In particular, can the Minister say whether a course to train conservators will be established, as recommended in the report of the Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections? 
-I present the following petition from 4 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
There is a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man-made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission which was approved by both sides of this Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independant staff resources and funds. 
That Technical Assistance Grants and Administrative Support Grants to community organisations are needed to partially redress the gross imbalance in technical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community 's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the Governments program of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the budget allocations in these areas over that of 1 975-76. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to reports, which I understand are accurate, that of the 61 Vietnamese refugees who came from Thailand to Australia in March this year, only three were related to Vietnamese people already living in Australia. Does this indicate that family reunion was not a major consideration in deciding which Vietnamese refugees were permitted to come to Australia on that occasion? I also ask whether the Government is planning at this stage to bring to Australia further Vietnamese refugees, for example from Thailand? If so, will special emphasis be given to family reunion, and what other major criteria will be applied in assessing such applicants for entry into Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What regulations or other provisions exist in the Australian Capital Territory for the provision of aids for the handicapped in (a) community facilities and (b) other buildings, such as shops and public transport. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. I refer to a meeting of Commonwealth and State Housing Ministers held in Canberra yesterday. The State Ministers are reported to have expressed some optimism about the future of the home building industry in the States but serious concern about the outlook in the construction industry generally. In view of decisions relating to the Australian Capital Territory announced last Thursday, can the Minister indicate firstly the outlook for the home building industry in the Australian Capital Territory, and secondly the prospects for the construction industry generally in the Australian Capital Territory? 
I listened earlier this evening with interest to  Senator Ryan's  speech in the debate. I will respond to the points raised when I speak in the debate tomorrow. But by way of preface - 
Yes. 
By way of preface I think it appropriate before I do that tomorrow and as the first sessional period of the 30th Parliament draws towards its close to refer to some of the undertakings made by the present Government during the election campaign last NovemberDecember, and to the implementation of those undertakings, particularly the most important of them. 
I think perhaps the most important is the undertaking that we have given to proceed with constitutional change in the Australian Capital Territory. We undertook that, on coming to government, we would appoint a task force to examine the steps by which that change could be made. The task force was appointed shortly after the Government was elected in December. Members of the current Legislative Assembly of the Australian Capital Territory were invited to participate on it. But because of the time available to those part-time members, they have been unable to do so. Nevertheless, the task force has now prepared the report and it is to be considered by Ministers. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  has indicated that the Legislative Assembly will be consulted on this matter before any final decision is taken. So, we have taken the first steps towards implementing our undertaking to ensure that the Legislative Assembly of the Australian Capital Territory does reach the stage where it has greater control in local matters while, of course, national capital aspects' will remain the responsibility of the Commonwealth. 
A further undertaking was that if returned to Government we would not proceed with the creation of an Australia Police Force which would incorporate the Australian Capital Territory Police. We took this view particularly in the A.C.T. because we have the highest regard for the A.C.T. Police and because there is a very close and, I think, important relationship between that police force and the community in the A.C.T. For those reasons and because there was an element of disadvantage to the members of the A.C.T. Police in the proposal to create an Australia Police Force, we undertook to ensure that there would be no amalgamation and that the A.C.T. Police would maintain its autonomy. That undertaking has been honoured. The Australian Capital Territory Police remain autonomous. We also said that the A.C.T. Police would be under the charge of the Minister for the Capital Territory instead of the AttorneyGeneral, as had been the case. We felt that that was more appropriate because of the special relationship which existed between the community in the A.C.T. and the A.C.T. Police. That promise also has been honoured and the A.C.T. Police now comes within the administrative arrangements order relating to the Minister for the 
Capital Territory. I take the opportunity to compliment the members of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force for the effectiveness, efficiency and courtesy with which they carry out their duties in the Australian Capital Territory. 
A further undertaking related to land policy. It is an area in which there was great and increasing confusion under the Labor Government. During the election campaign we said that we would introduce a partial auction system for land and that undertaking has been honoured. Under the new scheme one-third of the available land is auctioned, one-third is allocated directly to builders on a quota basis and the remaining onethird is allocated to individuals who are registered on a waiting list. We also undertook during the election campaign to allocate land on a preferential basis to first home buyers. 
Government in relation to the Australian Capital Territory. 
I want to make it clear,  Mr President,  that I do not want to contravene any arrangement that has been reached. It is my understanding that I am not. 
-I think it is quite in accordance with Standing Orders for me to make a statement relevant to measures which have been taken in relation to my electorate. Is that denied to me in any way by Standing Orders? I say to  Senator Georges  that if I am acting in any way in contravention of any agreement entered into, I hope that he will make that point but I understand that I am not. I certainly do not want to act in contravention of any understanding that has been reached. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I was saying that during the election campaign we also undertook to allocate land on a preferential basis to first home buyers. First home buyers are now allocated land under the new system at reserve prices. During the election campaign an undertaking was given also that Commissioner for Housing loans would be continued. Some reference to this has been made in the Senate, and it is a matter on which the Minister might respond.  Senator Ryan  made the point - 
Because of reductions in the amount provided for Commissioner for Housing loans there was some concern in the community in the Australian Capital Territory that the loans might be cut out altogether. When this Government was elected to office the sum of $3m was added to those loan funds to ensure that they continued through this financial year. In accordance with the undertaking that we gave during the election campaign, Commissioner for Housing loans will be continued next year and an amount of $12m, together with funds flowing back from loans already outstanding, will be provided for that purpose. Because of limited resources available, these loans will now be means tested to ensure that people who need them most obtain them first. 
I refer also to the sale of government houses. During the election campaign it was promised that the sale of government houses to tenants would be recommenced. The Minister may be able to confirm that this undertaking will be honoured. I understand from the Minister for the Capital Territory in another place that it is his aim and objective that this pledge, as stated by the Government parties during the election campaign, will be honoured as soon as administrative details are settled and the matter is finalised. Reference has been made frequently both within and outside this Parliament to the planning difficulties which have occurred in the Australian Capital Territory. There can be little doubt that one of the reasons for this has been that under the previous Government the National Capital Development Commission was placed under the control of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. During the election campaign we undertook that if returned to government the National Capital Development Commission would be under the responsibility of the Minister for the Capital Territory so it would be, as it was always intended to be, a planning body for the national capital. 
Next year, as ought to be well known, the National Capital Development Commission will spend more money in the Capital Territory than it spent here this year. The NCDC, as the national capital planning body, is now solely responsible for the national capital and many of the planning difficulties, whether they be difficulties associated with schools, or health centres or simple landscaping problems in new suburbs, will be overcome with planning by the Commission. 
Finally, I refer to one major general point which is important to this electorate, that is, the superannuation scheme for Commonwealth public servants. The implementation of a new superannuation scheme was a major plank in our platform during the election campaign, and it was one of the first major reforms introduced in the Thirtieth Parliament. I have referred to some of the major undertakings made by the Government parties during the election campaign and to the fact that those undertakings have been implemented or are in the course of implementation. I think it is important that I refer to some of them during the adjournment debate as is appropriate because they relate to measures taken by this Government during the first session of the Thirtieth Parliament. As I have mentioned already, I will continue these remarks in debate tomorrow and refer to other measures taken to rationalise and stabilise development in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security and refer to recent Press reports suggesting that the Government might plan to reduce spending on child care services next year by $5.8m. I ask: Will the Government in fact reduce financial support for child care services in 1976-77 compared with the current financial year? Will action be taken, in accordance with the Government's intention to improve services to the most needy in the community, to meet this criterion with respect to child care services? Can the Minister indicate when the necessary administrative arrangements might be announced? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. I refer to the Governments policy, stated during the last election campaign, to seek ways to encourage private enterprisebased industries and business to locate in Canberra. I refer also to the recent expression of confidence by the Minister for the Capital Territory that work to be undertaken in the Australian Capital Territory by the Government in 1 976-77 will encourage private sector activity. In view of measures announced last Thursday and limitations on the growth of the public sector, which has special significance in the Australian Capital Territory, what measures is the Government taking or what measures are proposed to encourage the growth of the private sector in the Territory? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that of 61 Vietnamese refugees who came from Thailand to Australia in March this year, only three were related to Vietnamese people already living in Australia. 
Does this indicate that family reunion was not a major consideration in deciding which Vietnamese refugees were permitted to come to Australia. 
Is the Government planning to bring to Australia further Vietnamese refugees, for example from Thailand; if so, will special emphasis be given to family reunion. 
What other major criteria will be applied in assessing such applications for entry to Australia. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to a report in the  Canberra Times  yesterday that officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs have been accused by a member of the Opposition in another place of 'calculated deceit' over East Timor. Is this not an unwarranted slur on officers of the Public Service in the Department of Foreign Affairs? I ask whether it is in fact the case that the deceit referred to was the result of decisions made by the Labor Government last year. Is this not another example of calculated concern by supporters of a government which, as the evidence now shows, was well aware of direct Indonesian intervention in East Timor but refused to say so? Is it not therefore an attempt to avoid the responsibility which the former Labor Government must accept for its part in recent tragic events in East Timor and an ignominious effort instead to blame public servants? 
I  present the following petition from 62 residents of Lyneham, Australian Capital Territory: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned residents of De Burgh, Murdock, Goodwin and Oliver 
Streets, Lyneham, A.C.T. respectfully showeth thai they object most strongly to the proposed development of medium density housing of 150 flats and 50 town houses in four-storey blocks between Owen Flats. Northbourne Avenue, and the Barton Highway. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should note that their main objections are: 
1 ) the resultant traffic congestion and noise, and the inadequate off-street parking which would be exacerbated by this action. 
the air pollution already existing in the area would he greatly increased. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray 
Petition received and read. 
I address a question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to her recent announcement concerning the future of the Australian Assistance Plan. In a subsequent statement on 26 May she said that the AAP will be listed as an item at the forthcoming FederalState financial relations discussions as one of the programs for absorption by the States against which future financial arrangements will be discussed. With respect to the Territories, the Minister said that contact will be maintained with the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly and the Minister for the Capital Territory in relation to the operation of the AAP in the 
Territory. What action has been taken to initiate contact on this matter with the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly and the Minister for the Capital Territory? Can the Minister indicate how the announcement of 26 May, with respect to the AAP, will affect arrangements in the Australian Capital Territory? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I know that the Minister will be aware of some concern among chemists in relation to chemists' remunerations for the supply of pharmaceutical benefits. I leave aside the proceedings that are currently before the courts. Has the Pharmacy Guild of Australia put proposals to the Government as to how it would see the determination of chemists' rates of remuneration, including professional fees, being carried out in the future, including a suggestion that these matters be decided by a fees tribunal or some other form of arbitration? Will the Government give consideration to the Guild 's proposals? 
-Can the Minister for Education indicate when consideration of the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority Ordinance will be completed and when it might be introduced in the Australian Capital Territory? 
-Can the Minister for Social Security say when details of annual programs of assistance for the handicapped will be announced following the Budget announcements of the 3-year program? Can the Minister indicate also whether within these allocations assistance for the physically, visually and intellectually handicapped will be distinguished in separate programs? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development concerning the regulation of the sport of boxing. I refer to the recommendations contained in the report of the interdepartmental committee inquiring into boxing and other combat sports tabled in this Parliament in October 1974. Can the Minister say whether the Government has considered proposals to establish an Australian combat sports commission? In particular, will the Government consider introducing measures to control the sport of boxing on a national basis? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of reports that some concern has been expressed that radio station 2XX on the campus of the Australian National University might have its licence withdrawn? Can the Minister say whether any action is proposed to investigate 2XX? In particular, is there any proposal that its licence be withdrawn? If some action is proposed, will the Minister indicate the reasons for this action? 
I address a question to the Minister for Education. I refer to reports alleging possible retrenchments and other restrictions at the Australian National University following the Government's recent Budget. Can the Minister say whether these reports are accurate? Can he give some details of the likely impact of the decisions on the Australian National University? 
I present the following petition from SOO citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That the Ethnic Radio Hour in N.S.W. broadcast in Croatian is controlled and run by members of the Yugoslav community and that the Australian-Croatian ethnic community is given no say. 
That Australian passports have been denied to some Australian citizens of Croatian origin without explanation or possibility of appeal. 
That discrimination has been exercised in the granting of citizenship privileges to migrants of Croatian origin. 
That discrimination is being exercised by the Australian Parliament in the negation and non-recognition of Croatian nationality. 
That discrimination is being exercised by the Australian Government in Ethnic Schools and University courses when it permits only the teaching of Serbo-Croat and not of the Croatian language as an alternative. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government will consider these facts in the light of justice toward a people who came as strangers to this land, and that appropriate action will be taken to remedy the present situation. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 209 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the 1976-77 Budget allocation of $73.3 million for child care amounts to less than $23 per child per year which is totally inadequate. 
That in 39.4 per cent of married couple families, both parents work and of these 59 per cent have dependent children. 
That 38.6 per cent of female heads of families work and of these  64  per cent have dependent children. 
The present government child care programs are heavily biassed in favour or pre-school programs, 70 per cent of the funds being destined for pre-schools which only provide part-time services for children and do not cater for the needs of working parents. 
That existing government childcare facilities, schools and other government buildings which could be used for childcare programs are underutilised. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that urgent consideration will be given to: 
an increase in funds for childcare services throughout Australia; 
an equitable distribution of funds to cover all the childcare needs of the community: 
the cessation of the wasteful useage of sessional preschool buildings, instead these buildings to be used also to cover the full range of childcare needs; 
) the wider utilisation of government buildings or parts therof e.g. schools, hospitals and government offices for appropriate childcare facilities. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. I preface my question by saying that I know the Minister will be aware of proposals for the establishment of an 
Australian institute on mental retardation and that a special group of interested persons has been formed to look into this proposal following the first joint national conference in Canberra recently of the Australian Association for the Mentally Retarded and the Australian Group for the Scientific Study of Mental Deficiency. Can the Minister indicate whether the Government has considered such measures as a means of coordinating and integrating services for the intellectually handicapped currently provided by voluntary and professional groups and governments? Can the Minister say whether the Government considers there is a need for better co-ordination of these services and related research and how the Government might be able to contribute to achieving this? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory aware that a major developer has purchased a substantial lease for development in the Weston Creek area of the Australian Capital Territory? Can he provide any details of the extent and nature of the proposed development? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs concerning a proposed housing project for the Aboriginal people of Wreck Bay in the Jervis Bay area of the Australian Capital Territory. I know that the Minister is aware that existing housing conditions are inadequate for the 150 Aboriginal people, including 60 children, living in the Wreck Bay settlement. Can the Minister indicate whether funds will be made available during this financial year so that this new housing project can commence? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question concerning suggestions that Australia should be non-aligned and that our security cooperation with the United States is 'detrimental to Australia's safety'. I refer particularly to an advertisement in the most recent edition of the  National Times,  signed by a number of people including the  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Hawke.  I ask: Is it not true that nonalignment would mean that Australia must abrogate its mutual security treaty with the United 
States and New Zealand? Does the Minister recall references to 'our policy of alignment' and the statement that 'the maintenance of our alliance with the United States . . . remains most important for our security'? Does the Minister also recall the following statement with respect to United States installations in Australia: 
We have been convinced that they . . . 
The installations- 
. contribute specifically to the improvement and development of Australia 's defence system? 
Is the Minister aware that these statements were made by the present Leader of the Opposition when he was Prime Minister? Does the Minister see inconsistencies between the views expressed by the present Leader of the Opposition and many members of his Party as indicated by the signatures appearing in the advertisement in the  National Times?  Can the Minister indicate whether there can be any reconciliation between the foreign policy of the Leader of the Opposition - 
Are you feeling a bit sensitive? Can the Minister indicate whether there can be any reconciliation - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  I have noticed during the past week when I have been in the chair at question time that some questions are far too long. I ask honourable senators to shorten them. If they wish to ask supplementary questions on a particular point they may do so. 
I shall finish,  Mr Deputy President.  Will the Minister indicate whether there can be any reconciliation between the foreign policy of the Leader of the Opposition and that of the  President  of the Labor Party? Will he indicate the Government's position with respect to non-alignment and the ANZUS pact? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Social Security. I refer to a statement made by the Minister in the Senate on 25 August. In that statement the Minister referred to the establishment of a national consultative group on social welfare to advise the Minister on current issues in social welfare which come within the responsibility of the Commonwealth. The Minister also referred to the proposed establishment of a social welfare consultative committee in each State and Territory to keep the Government informed of problems or difficulties encountered in the administration of Commonwealth welfare programs. Can the Minister indicate whether the Australian Capital Territory will be represented on the proposed national consultative group? Can the Minister indicate what action has been taken to establish a social welfare consultative committee for the Australian Capital Territory? Can the Minister say whether all organisations involved in social security and welfare work in the Territory will be considered for participation? Finally, can the Minister say when an announcement on the establishment of the Australian Capital Territory committee and the other committees is likely to be made? 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Social Security concerning government co-operation with voluntary welfare organisations. I refer to the statement in the speech by the Governor-General on the opening of the Thirtieth Parliament that 'the Government will assist voluntary bodies by placing public service resources at their disposal through improving opportunities for transferability of staff between the government and the nongovernment sector'. Can the Minister indicate whether action has been taken towards implementing that undertaking? If so, what measures have been taken? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer to a seminar at the National Library of Australia in March this year at which resolutions ' were passed seeking improved library services for visually and physically handicapped persons. Can the Minister say what action has been taken to initiate a survey of braille and talking books available throughout Australia and to compile a national catalogue of this material? Can the Minister also say whether consideration might be given to the establishment of a National Library service for the visually and physically handicapped along the lines of services provided by the United States Library of Congress? 
I bring up the report of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on the Sixtieth and Sixty-first Series of Proposed Variations to the Plan of Layout of the City of Canberra and its Environs, and move: 
That the report be printed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Senator KNIGHT (Australian Capital Territory)- I seek leave to have a short statement relating to the report incorporated in  Hansard. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Can the Minister confirm that the Government adheres unequivocally to its commitment to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty? Can the Minister also confirm that the Government believes that Australia's efforts should be directed to supporting the limitation or reduction of nuclear armaments? Can the Minister say whether, in the circumstances, any consideration has been or will be given by the Government to any change in its stand on this matter? 
I wish to refer briefly to a report in the  Canberra Times  today relating to constitutional change in the Australian Capital Territory. The report states: 
The Depanment of the Capital Territory and sections of other departments servicing Canberra will make way for a new organisation serving the Assembly- 
That is the Legislative Assembly of the Territory- but  Mr Staley  's statement is not expected to either clarify or assure on matters like security of jobs, wages or conditions. 
That relates to the public servants involved. I know that that sort of statement gives rise to some concern among many public servants in the Territory who are associated with its administration or who may be associated with its administration following the constitutional change. I understand, although I have not heard these reports myself, that today some Public Service trade union officials have expressed concern at the proposed changes. My personal concern is that a report of that nature may be taken to mean that no such assurances have been given to public servants who may be involved in or affected by constitutional change in the Austraiian Capital Territory. I should like briefly to correct that position by quoting from the policy statement on the Capital Territory issued by the Government parties prior to the last election: 
Employment under the Assembly or within the ACT Administration will be under the terms and conditions of the Public Service Act- this will ensure that public servants moving freely between the Government and the ACT administration will be fully protected in all their rights. 
That assurance has been given publicly since then. Indeed, a report was carried in the  Canberra Times  on 5 August which quoted me as passing on an assurance from the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  at a meeting in the Albert Hall in Canberra on 4 August. The report in the  Canberra Times  stated: 

 Senator Knight said that he had been assured by  Mr Staley  that public servants who chose to serve in the ACT administration would retain the same rights as other public servants. 
As it turns out, the statement in the  Canberra Times  to which I referred earlier is correct as far as it goes. But in fact it does not go far enough and mention that those assurances have been given in the past. Once again I was not present, but I understand that the Minister for the Capital Territory reiterated those assurances at a Press conference following the release of his statement on this matter this afternoon. 
Tonight in this chamber I seek a clear assurance from the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory that the statement made by the Government parties during the election campaign and the assurance which I gave on 4 August still stand and that public servants who, because of constitutional change, may be involved in or transfer to the Capital Territory administration will have the same rights and terms and conditions as all other public servants under the Public Service Act. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the recent announcement of an additional $2 5 m for programs to assist the Aboriginal people. Can the Minister say whether funds will be available from this amount to commence the urgently needed construction of housing for the Aboriginal community of Wreck Bay? 
I refer to the increase in the recent Federal Budget in the exemption from payroll tax in the Australian Capital Territory from $20,800 to $41,600 designed specifically to bring the Australian Capital Territory into line with the States. Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that, in more recent State budgets, the basic level of exemption in New South Wales and Victoria has been raised to $48,000? Recognising the importance of this question, expecially to smaller businesses in the 
Territory, will the Minister give consideration to an increase in the level of exemption in the A.C.T. so that businesses in the Territory are not disadvantaged by a delay in the introduction of a similar exemption in the A.C.T.? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Education. I refer to a report in the Australian Capital Territory Teachers Federation bulletin on 8 October. Is the Minister aware that the Teachers Federation has claimed that technical and further education institutions in the Australian Capital Territory will not have sufficient ancillary staff to maintain current standards and services? The report refers to 'likely reductions and curtailments', including abandonment of many subjects, no evening library services, the abandonment of reports on students, including apprenticeship reports, and an inability to conduct annual examinations for some subjects. Can the Minister say whether these claims are correct? If they are inaccurate, will the Minister ensure that the Australian Capital Territory Teachers Federation is informed in detail of the actual situation? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the South African Government's proposal to make the area known as Transkei independent on 26 October, next week. Will the Government recognise the independence of the proposed state of Transkei? Will the Minister indicate the reasons for the Government's position on the matter? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to reports, particularly in the  Canberra Times  on 1 5 October, expressing concern that the Australian Capital Territory Ambulance service is inadequately staffed to serve the needs of the people of the Capital Territory. Can the Minister say whether staffing of the Australian Capital Territory Ambulance Service is inadequate in the light of the demands on the service? What action can be taken to ensure that services are in fact adequate at all times? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education and refer to the NeilHerd report on staffing at Australian Capital Territory schools. What action is now proposed with respect to the report including the question of staffing of the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority itself which the report states is in need of additional staff? Could the Minister also indicate whether particular attention will be given to the report's comments on the need for ancillary staff in Australian Capital Territory schools and the need for a review of this matter to ensure that adequate staff is provided? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Education. I refer to a report of a statement by an officer of the Department of Education concerning apprenticeship training in the Australian Capital Territory. I ask whether the Minister will have examined the proposals contained in the statement, particularly with respect to a possible shortage of skilled workers in the future and the need to expand opportunities for careers education? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What laws in the Australian Capital Territory control the possession of firearms. 
How many firearms are registered. 
What is the nature of the firearms for which registration is required. 
What firearms are exempt from registration. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the recently introduced special incentive scheme for youth employment training, offering 6 months on the job training for unemployed school leavers aged 1 5 years to 1 9 years and providing a $58 weekly subsidy to employers during the training period. In the context of this national program to assist unemployed young people, can the Minister say what progress has been made with the scheme in the Australian Capital Territory? Can he say whether significant numbers of young people in the Australian Capital Territory who qualify to do so have now sought assistance under the scheme? Have some been placed in job training? In what types of jobs have they been employed? 

 - Mr Chairman, I refer to 2 rather disparate aspects of the Department of Administrative Services' appropriations for 1976-77. I seek your indulgence to make one general comment, and that is to commend the officers of the departments who participated with the Estimates Committees in these inquiries because I believe these inquiries are an important link between the Public Service, the Executive and the Parliament. They play an important role for the Senate. I think the officers who participate deserve to be commended by this Committee, and I would like that recorded. The particular aspects of the appropriations of the Department of Administrative Services with which I deal refer firstly to a matter dealt with earlier by  Senator Douglas  McClelland and also referred to by  Senator Sim.  That is the conservation of cultural and historical materials and collections in Australia. I agree with  Senator Douglas  McClelland- I am pleased to be able to agree entirely with him on this issue- that it really is a matter of some urgency and a matter in which governments must make decisions and take action if vitally important cultural and historical collections in this country are to be preserved for the future. 
I refer to the report of Estimates Committee A in which reference is made to the lack of sufficient conservators in Australia. During the considerations of Estimates Committee A it became clear that there is an enormous amount of very valuable cultural and historical materials in Australia that needs to be better preserved, that requires fully trained conservators and more of them than we have at present. For example, the Director of the Australian War Memorial pointed out that his collection has one conservator for materials worth over $ 100m. It is a collection which, because of its very nature both as an artistic collection and as a collection of war materials, is increasing in value every day. The Acting Director of the National Gallery referred during the hearings of Estimates Committee A to the value of the National Gallery's current collection. He pointed out, quite rightly, that it is very difficult to estimate the current value of a collection of that nature, but he said that he thought it would be reasonable to suggest that Australia's national collection for the National Gallery, which is currently under construction, is probably worth in the vicinity of $30m to $40m. These are just 2 examples of the sorts of collections of materials throughout Australia, in libraries and museums, for which fully trained conservators are urgently needed. 
I follow up some comments made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland by indicating that some action has been taken on this matter, though obviously more is needed. On 1 9 May of this year I asked a question in the Senate in which I raised this issue. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate I put the question: 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 The Chairman  having reported accordingly- 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What measures have been taken to assist handicapped persons using public transport in the Australian Capital Territory. 
What special facilities are available on buses to assist handicapped persons wishing to use the public transport system in the Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What measures have been taken to assist children using public transport in the Australian Capital Territory. 
What special facilities are available on buses to assist children wishing to use the public transport system in the Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What measures have been taken to assist aged persons using public transport in the Australian Capital Territory. 
What special facilities are available on buses to assist aged persons wishing to use the public transport system in the Capital Territory. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to a research report concerning nursing services in the Australian Capital Territory, particularly the provision of such services outside hospitals. The report was mentioned in an article in the  Canberra Times  on 2 November which stated that the research report indicated that the organisation and administration of such nursing services in the Australian Capital Territory are unsatisfactory. Is the Minister aware of the research report mentioned in the article? Can the Minister indicate whether measures can be taken, or are proposed, to overcome any difficulties associated with these important nursing services? 
Last night I was referring to the importance of making provision for the preservation of important cultural and historical collections throughout Australia. I referred particularly to the $100m collection at the Australian War Memorial and to the fact that the Acting Director of the National Gallery had indicated that the collection which the Gallery holds on behalf of the Australian people is already valued at $30m to $40m. I said that there are in fact no training courses in Australia for conservators for these valuable collections and that there is a severe shortage of conservators even from overseas in Australia.  Senator Douglas  McClelland suggested that there is a need for action. I concurred with that suggestion. Last night I referred to the fact that on 19 May this year I raised this issue in the Senate by asking the Minister concerned about the report of the Committee of 
Inquiry on Museums and National Collections which was tabled earlier this year and which recommended measures to preserve Australia's cultural and historical materials both as a means of preserving our national heritage and as a means of protecting valuable collections. The Minister said in reply at that time that he felt that the idea was a very good one. 
On 26 May I received a reply from the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers).  He indicated his interest in the subject and said that he had taken it up with the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  He said that the matter would be considered by an interdepartmental committee. My understanding is that the idea of establishing a course for conservators is now being considered by the Minister for Education in consultation with the Minister for Administrative Services and also by an interdepartmental committee. I urge that that consideration be pursued expeditiously because I believe this is a matter on which, as I said last night, governments have to take the initiative and I believe ought to take action as quickly as possible to preserve the many important collections in this country. The report of Estimates Committee A stated: 
There is clearly a shortage of conservators throughout the world and little opportunity for specialist training. The Committee believes that there should be a degree of urgency in taking whatever action is possible to train people as conservators, who might then be employed, at appropriate levels of remuneration - 
I stress that point, 'at appropriate levels of remuneration'- in the task of preserving Australia's multi-million dollar collections. The action might properly include the establishment of a formal course within Australia for the training of conservators. 
I hope that the Minister will comment on this question to indicate what progress has been made and what progress might be expected towards establishing a course in Australia for the training of conservators to preserve our major national collections and other collections in museums and libraries throughout Australia. 
I move on to the question of overseas premises and rental payments as provided for in Division 148.3 under 'Overseas Property Services', item 01, 'Rent' which also falls under the appropriations for the Department of Administrative Services. I should simply like to draw the attention of the Committee of the Whole to the fact that Australia's 90 overseas posts require rental payments of almost $12m a year at this stage. The post in Paris, for example, costs well over Sim in annual rental payments. Premises at Tokyo cost more than $800,000. Many other premises cost in the vicinity of $250,000 or $500,000. Of course the premises vary with the size of the overseas mission and with the relative costs in particular parts of the world. I raise this matter because I think that Estimates Committees and the Parliament and all who are involved- both the departmental officers and the Ministers- must maintain a careful scrutiny of this item because the costs involved are substantial. One of the questions which I think it raises and which I want to put to the Committee of the Whole is that in some cases there may be benefits in building premises where we are at present renting. While the short term costs might be more substantial, the long term savings to Australia might also be much greater. I know that in posts like Paris, for example, we have substantial building programs. I raise this matter only to suggest that this is a substantial item amongst the appropriations. Overseas missions cost a lot of money to run and rental payments are amongst the highest costs involved in that area. I think we ought to be looking on a continuing basis at where, through construction, we might overcome the longer term costs involved in these rental payments. 
I want to refer in some respects to one or two of the matters raised by  Senator Georges  and I want to make a point similar to that just made by  Senator Withers.  I am speaking to subdivision 1 of division 510, Australia Council. Also I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  to the fact that there were some shortcomings in the explanatory notes provided by the Australia Council to Estimates Committee A. I hope and I am confident that that problem will be overcome in the future, because it is essential that the Australia Council presents those notes effectively and thereby can be represented effectively before the Estimates Committees. The Australia Council is an essential element, and one of the most vital elements in the promotion and development of Australian art and culture. It deserves strong support, but to evoke that support it is essential that its explanatory notes and the material presented to the Estimates committees are substantial and adequate. There were some problems which I will not go into concerned with the explanatory notes presented this year. I am sure that those people concerned are aware of the difficulty and that action will be taken to overcome it. 
In that regard I wish to refer to subdivision 1 which deals with travelling and subsistence and to which I think  Senator Georges  referred. There was a problem in relation to the explanation given on that expenditure. I sought further information in an attempt to get a more detailed explanation. That information has now been provided. I must say that after reading it I still found it difficult to pin down the answer to the question I had asked. My question concerned the fact that there had been a reduction of about 80 per cent in committees involved in that appropriation but a reduction in expenditure of only about 17 per cent. Having looked over the notes carefully, I think it is reasonably clear that these comprise only a relatively small part of the expenditure under that item. I raise that point simply to emphasise that it is important that when Estimates Committees are dealing with these subjects the explanatory notes and the material presented are sufficiently comprehensive so that honourable senators examining these matters can do so effectively, and that subsequent material, if it is requested, also is presented in a form which anwers adequately the questions raised. 
I go on from there to take up the point I mentioned earlier, and that is the importance of the Australian Council and therefore the importance of effective presentation to the Senate and to the Parliament of its work. I refer in particular to the Aboriginal Arts Board. During the hearing of Estimates Committee A I asked about the general approach of the Australia Council, and that Board in particular, to the promotion and development of Aboriginal arts. The result was that a note, longer than the earlier one, was provided. I think it is a very important note. I hope that it will be widely read amongst Australians, because I think it gives a clear picture of the significance of Aboriginal art and the promotion of it in this country. I note that the Australia Council or the Aboriginal Arts Board, whichever was responsible for preparing this note, suggests that the Board had brought about a renaissance in Aboriginal arts. I know that the Board has done a great deal of valuable work; work which I think needs to be continued and supported. The note makes this point: 
The continued exposure, both in Australia and overseas, of Aboriginal art in all its manifestations is dependent upon the continued support and development of traditional cultural activities in North and Central Australia. 
It also points out that the next five to ten years are critical for the survival of Aboriginal art in Australia. That point in particular again emphasises the importance of the activities of this Board and of the Council as a whole. It also makes the important point- again emphasising the role of the Council and of its boards, and of this Board in particular- that the budget of the Aboriginal Arts Board represents almost the entire patronage of Aboriginal arts by the Australian community. I am not sure what percentage of support to Aboriginal art comes from the Australia Council and through this Board, but obviously it is very substantial. Obviously it is a very high proportion of the total. That again emphasises the importance of the work of the Board and of the Council. 
I make that point because I think it is important to bring that work to the notice of the Committee of the Whole, the Parliament and the community. But I make it for another reason, and that is that when Senate Estimates Committees are examining the work of the Australia Council and the work of its boards, particularly very important boards such as the Aboriginal Arts Board, it is essential that the material be presented in a comprehensive form and that the explanatory notes be sufficient to give those examining them a full picture of what is happening and the reasons for it, and thereby enable the Estimates Committee to deal promptly with them. 
I want to raise a matter of some concern in the Australian Capital Territory. It has been the subject of discussion in the media today. It relates particularly to some misconceptions which exist concerning the question of subsidies for buses which, of course, are the basis of our public transport system in the Capital Territory. There have been suggestions that Canberra public transport services, which means bus service, are heavily subsidised compared with other areas and other cities of Australia. I submit to the Senate that the evidence indicates that in fact this is not the case. To support this argument, I seek leave of the Senate to incorporate in  Hansard  a single line table indicating the Government subsidies to public transport per head of population. The figures are for 1974-75 and cover the cities of Sydney, Melbourne and the Australian Capital Territory. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="069232197611043_100_11.jpg"></graphic>

-As the table shows, the per capita subsidy in the Australian Capital Territory in 1 974-75 for public transport was $20.50. In Melbourne, it was $2 1 .30 and in Sydney it was approximately $27. So, in fact, the public transport system in the Capital Territory is clearly not unduly heavily subsidised. 
-These are figures I have obtained from the Parliamentary Library. They cover general Government support for the public transport systems. They refer to operating losses. 
I would have to check that with the Library. I was told that this is a total subsidy figure. Of course, we do not have Statelike finances in the Capital Territory. The Library has assured me that these are the comparative figures and I would take the Library's word for that. Of course, they include for the cities of Sydney and Melbourne the subsidies for train services which do not exist here. 
I would also like to refer to evidence contained in  Hansard  which gives more recent figures comparing Canberra with Perth. They are figures for 1975-76. The Perth public transport system was subsidised to the extent of $24.69 per capita in 1975-76 compared with $26 for the Australian Capital Territory. Those figures were provided in evidence before Senate Estimates Committee E. Figures provided by the Parliamentary Legislative Research Service indicate that government subsidies per passenger journey for the 3 cities are 22c in Sydney, 23c in Melbourne and 30c in Canberra. But the figure for the Australian Capital Territory relates to the high level of route kilometres per capita in the Territory compared with the States. 
All too frequently unwarranted assumptions are made about such matters in relation to the Australian Capital Territory. It must be remembered that Australia is building a unique city, a national capital, which faces particular problems of rapid development and low density population which in turn present special problems for the public transport system. In addition, the Australian Capital Territory is only just beginning to develop an extensive public transport system and particularly rapid increases have been required over the last few years to get the system established. The Australian Capital Territory is only now about to begin the development of a rapid transit system of roads for the bus service. It is also beginning a process by which we hope this public transport system will be more widely utilised. At present about 18 per cent of commuters use the public transport system. The aim is to have about 40 per cent using it, and we are moving towards achieving that objective. I conclude by saying that I note that this subject is dealt with in the report of Estimates Committee E. I will say no more at this stage, because I will want to raise it in the Committee stage of the consideration of Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ). 
I ask the Minister for Social Security a question concerning the proposed arrangements for holiday care programs for school children to be assisted by the Office of Child Care. What arrangements have been made or are being made to provide such programs in the Australian Capital Territory? 
I present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas all people criminate, have the right to life, civil liberty and religious freedom; 
And whereas we Australian citizens of Ukrainian descent are dedicated to the Ukrainian Autocephalic Orthodox Church in Australia and New Zealand protest and condemn the constant harassment and violation by U.S.S.R. authorities particularly of our devotees and clergy of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. 
We demand instant release of all illegally imprisoned and exiled orthodox people and clergy and the return of their citizenship rights as stated in the U.S.S.R. Constitution including the right to follow and practice a religious belief and the freedom for leaving the U.S.S.R. travel overseas. 
We also demand the release of our Orthodox Priests W. Romaniuk, M. Fedorak A. Sokolan, B. Zalyvak and many others and restoration of their rights and dignity. 
We demand restoration of freedom of religion in the U.S.S.R. and return of Churches for worship also restoration of monasteries, seminaries and other religious institutions which have been convened into institutions of antireligious propaganda. 
Your petitioners humbly pray, that the Members in Parliament assembled, will take steps at diplomatic level with the Government of the U.S.S.R. to allow freedom of Religion in U.S.S.R. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Science a question on the development of alternative sources of energy in Australia, particularly in view of the fact that Australia is one of the best placed nations to undertake research in, and possibly to develop, solar energy. Can the Minister indicate why Australia, according to the information that I am able to obtain, is now spending some twenty times as much on research and development in the field of nuclear energy as it is on solar energy? Can the Minister say whether research on solar energy and other alternatives to nuclear energy are being or will be expanded in Australia? 
-This report deals with 32 proposals to vary the plan of layout of the city of Canberra. It is the sixty-second such series of proposals to be referred to the Committee by the Minister for the Capital Territory. The Committee has been asked to deal with a large number of proposed variations during this current period of sittings. For instance, we reported to the Parliament on the sixtieth and sixty-first series only on 5 October last. We were requested to deal as quickly as possible with the present series to enable construction work to proceed on some of the items early in the new year. This has meant that we have not been able to give the detailed consideration to some of these proposals that their importance seems to warrant. In particular, we were asked to approve a number of variations that would have the effect of converting sites previously designated for development for medium density housing to permit development of those areas by the construction of standard detached housing. The Committee takes the view that it should obtain more information from the National Capital Development Commission on the Commission's long-term policies for medium density housing in Canberra before it signifies approval to 3 proposals presented in the current series. The proposals in question involve a change in land use from medium to low density in areas close to shopping centres in Wanniassa in Tuggeranong, the Kippax Centre in Holt and at Latham in Belconnen. 
The Committee has adopted a similar approach to a proposal put forward in this series for a new road to link the Campbell Park office complex with the Russell offices. The Committee is not satisfied that the new road is necessary or that the new office blocks could not be served by modifications to existing roads. In our report we request that implementation of these 4 proposals not proceed until we have examined them further and reported on them to the Parliament again. We would expect to do this early in the autumn sittings of 1977. We have requested that the Minister postpone the action he would normally take on receiving our report, which is to table the instrument of variations in both the Houses of Parliament, until the Committee has had the opportunity to give further consideration to these particular matters. 
I should also mention two other proposals of importance contained in the series now before the Senate. We were asked to approve a proposal for an access road off Canberra Avenue to serve a site for a tannery and other as yet undetermined industrial uses in the Jerrabomberra district. This is near the existing abattoirs. In the long-term it is proposed to site other works in this area- of about 9 hectares- which like the tannery have the potential to cause some environmental problems. The Committee was satisfied that the selected site is sufficiently distant from land-users likely to be affected by the tannery. We were assured by officers of the Department of the Capital Territory that in the construction and operation of any plant to be developed in the area, laws for environmental protection would be rigidly enforced. We expressed some concern that the Clean Air Ordinance is still only in draft form and has not yet become law. We recommend in our report that development of the tannery not be approved until the ordinance has come into force. Other proposals contained in the current series which will be of interest to senators are those that will permit the development of the Belconnen Town Centre- in particular the proposed major shopping mall and the commencement of work to improve substantially parts of the Monaro Highway. 
Finally, I should add something about the procedures we adopt when considering variations. When notice is given by the Minister for the Capital Territory of his intention to vary the gazetted plan, members of the public have 12 days in which to lodge objections to any proposal. It has been our custom when examining the proposals to call before the Committee those persons who have made formal objections. By this means the Committee can inform itself on community attitudes to proposals. On this occasion we facilitated an exchange of views between objectors and officers of the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Capital Territory. This seemed to us preferable to the procedure adopted in the past of discussing the objections separately with the official witnesses and the objectors themselves. We will adopt this practice in future whenever the importance of a particular matter would appear to warrant such a procedure. We have also asked the Minister to consider a new procedure that would ensure that, in future, consideration of variations by the Committee can be regularised so that they would come before us twice a year- once in the autumn sittings and once in the Budget session. This would obviate some of the problems which have occasionally arisen in the past with the Committee being asked to hurry its consideration of variations to meet planned development schedules. I commend the report to the Senate. 
As a senator for the Australian Capital Territory I thought that the Committee stages of the consideration of this Bill would be an appropriate time to discuss in some detail the question of Australian Capital Territory bus services since it has been raised in debate and in the report of Senate Estimates Committee E. I would like to add something to what has been said by a number of other honourable senators, including the Minister for Science,  Senator Webster.  I think it has to be recognised as fundamental to any discussion of this question that Canberra and the 'new towns' of the Australian Capital Territory represent a new and relatively rapidly developing city. Only now are we beginning the development of a comprehensive public transport system in the Australian Capital Territory. Planning was first undertaken for this major development in the early 1970s. It was only in July 1974 that the Department of the Capital Territory and the National Capital Development Commission agreed on a transport policy and the objectives that ought to be pursued. This was published in summary form, and for completeness of the record I ask that that summary of objects of the transport policy for the Australian Capital Territory be incorporated in  Hansard. 
This afternoon  Senator Wright  referred to the difficulty of comparing operating deficits or subsidies for various cities. But I believe some comparisons can be made between other capital cities and Canberra. These indicate quite clearly that the operating deficit in the Australian Capital Territory is not substantially greater in any case, and in some cases it is less than in other capital cities. If one takes comparable cities such as Hobart, Launceston and Burnie- those figures have to be taken togetherand Perth and Canberra then I think it is quite clear that those cities have public transport systems with similar operating deficits. The figures for Sydney and Melbourne, as I indicated earlier in the Senate, in fact are higher than the per capita subsidy in the Australian Capital Territory. 

 -As Senator Wright states, the figures are comparable. For the completeness of the record, I seek leave to incorporate a table in  Hansard  indicating the subsidy per capita, the subsidy per passenger journey and route kilometres per capita for the year 1 974-75 for various capital cities. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="070232197611100_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I agree that there may well be a case for looking at the whole question of operating deficits or subsidies for public transport systems in any capital city. I believe that these should certainly be kept under continuing scrutiny. 
-I think that aspect has to be kept under review. As to the operating deficit, if savings or reductions can be made, I think they ought to be made. But as a senator for the Australian Capital Territory I have to make it clear that I oppose any action which would jeopardise the efficient and effective development of the public transport system in the Australian Capital Territory to serve the people of the Territory. I believe that the arguments I have presented and the figures I have presented indicate that the public transport system here is not unduly subsidised and that is does in fact face special problems. Any reduction in the subsidy might only mean substantial additional costs for roads, parking facilities and other related facilities that go with the development of alternative means of transport. 
In conclusion, I turn to a related but essential question. I refer to comments made by  Senator Wright  last week when he offered the Senate 'a few thoughts' about Senate procedures. He referred particularly to section 53 of the Constitution in that respect.  Senator Wright  concluded by saying that there is nothing in our system of government 'that would prevent the development of a practice in this Senate of requiring objectionable items in Appropriation Bills to be reconsidered by the Government'. He went on to say that the Senate should consider 'its undoubted constitutional power of request for amendment to be exercised on the appropriate occasion'. I agree that the Senate should indeed consider those matters. But having said that, recognising that Senate Estimates Committees are a vital part of the operation of the Senate and indeed of the Parliament, it raises a very important issue. If any Estimates Committee are to suggest reductions in presenting reports, they will have to present detailed arguments and evidence lying behind the suggestion for a reduction. The hearings of committees will have to be held in such a way that those appearing before the committees- public servants- are given an opportunity to present every aspect of a case even if it means that the committee goes back to a particular subject subsequently. I think in such cases there is also a need for the Committee to give some indication of the scale or the amount of the suggested reduction and some indication of the extent of the over-expenditure or the overestimate of the appropriation as proposed. I raise that point only because it relates essentially to the role of the Estimates Committees in this Senate and to their significance in the parliamentary system and because I think it is an important aspect relating to the comments made by my colleague,  Senator Wright.  I think that all of us in the Senate have to consider such factors very carefully. 
I noticed earlier that the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  indicated with respect to earlier comments on the Canberra bus system that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  has in fact re-examined this proposed expenditure and believes that it is justified. I simply conclude by saying that I agree. 
I direct a question to you,  Mr President.  Can you undertake an examination of the adequacy of facilities in and access to Parliament House and its public galleries for handicapped persons, particularly the physically handicapped? In view of the possibility of a new Parliament House being designed in the not too distant future can you make it a matter of record that these matters be taken carefully into account in any design of a future Parliament House? 
I resent the implications of the statements by  Senator Cavanagh.  Under the Standing Orders it is improper to reflect upon another  Senator. I  suggest that his statement is improper. At no time has anyone asked me to ask a question, nor would I ask a question that someone had suggested I should ask. I indicated to  Senator Guilfoyle  that what was said yesterday was not entirely clear. I have had inquiries about the subject. I think it was quite reasonable for me to seek to have the matter clarified. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security concerning the payment of unemployment benefits to people leaving universities. My question relates particularly to the question asked on the subject yesterday which dealt with the Australian National University. I ask the Minister: What is the situation with respect to a person who has not completed a course of study but who does not intend to resume full time studies? As the last day for enrolment at the Australian National University this year will be 24 December, can the Minister say whether in fact such people will be eligible for the unemployment benefit from 31 December and not from 1 February 1977 as has reportedly been suggested in a notice distributed by the Department of Social Security? 
In supporting these 8 Bills dealing with the Commonwealth Government's support for education, I begin by saying that education is probably the most fundamental service provided by or supported to varying degrees by governments. Clearly the quality of the nation that we build will probably depend to a greater extent on the quality of the education provided than on any other single factor. So it is clearly a matter about which neither governments nor the community can be complacent. I suggest that there is a perennial problem with such matters, and that is the question of providing a most effective system of education within the limits of the resources available to governments and to the community generally. I therefore begin by simply referring to the total expenditure on the 4 areas of education in 1976 and 1977. This year expenditure on education will amount to about $1.49 billion, and it is estimated that next year expenditure in these 4 areas of education will increase to $1.54 billion, providing for real growth, after inflation is taken into account, of about 3.2 per cent. That, I think, is consistent with the statements made by the Minister for 
Education  (Senator Carrick),  including the statement that he made on 4 November in which he said: 
The Government has no intention of retreating from its undertaking to support real growth in the education programs on which the commissions make recommendations. 
I think these 8 Bills support that undertaking quite clearly. It contrasts, for example, with the reduction in the 1975 Budget and for the 1976 calendar year of $105m in funds for the education commissions. In 1977, as a result of the 1976-77 Budget, expenditure on those commissions will increase by $47m. I add in passing that that is also consistent with recently announced increases in tertiary education assistance scheme allowances, which range roughly from 24 per cent to about 40 per cent. 
I turn briefly to the question of schools. Expenditure on schools in 1977 is estimated at $508m, which is an increase of approximately $ 10m on the figure for 1976. This represents a 2 per cent real growth rate for next year. I think one of the most important questions to which all those involved in or interested in education must address themselves is that of the employment of school leavers. The Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training which the Government has now established will play an important role in assessing some of the problems and perhaps suggesting some of the solutions to obviously serious problems which are developing in our society and in our educational system. I think, therefore, it is important and perhaps useful to quote the summary of the purpose of that committee of inquiry. It was given by the Minister for Education as follows: 
The Committee will deal with a number of fundamental issues related to education. In particular, the Committee will examine the whole field of post-secondary education. It will also examine the broader problem of the relationship between education and the labour market. In the latter area the Committee will be asked to expand its review into secondary education as appropriate. 
I think the last point will be a particularly important part of the role played by that Committee if the money which is being allocated to schools is to be in the longer term most effectively used in the interests of the community as a whole. 
The estimated expenditure on universities for 1977 is $546.1m, which again represents a 2 per cent real increase in contrast with the reduction in expenditure of $21 m in 1976 compared with that of the previous year. One important issue relating to university education is the growing problem of the potential over-supply of graduates. That is already occurring in some areas. In recent weeks senior members of the legal profession in Australia have expressed their concern that within a few years they will be faced with a serious problem of over-supply. That is a problem which has already occurred in a number of European countries and in North America. When we are looking at these large sums of money which are being put into education, that is one problem which we have to take very seriously indeed and which has to be examined. Universities are particularly important because, in many ways, they are the source of the most significant research done in Australia. We will have to look at the relative emphasis placed on universities as a source of graduates and as the base for Australia's research efforts, because research work is obviously vital to our national development. It is a matter that needs to be looked at more closely so that research in many areas in Australia, including that carried out at universities, is given greater emphasis. When we consider the problem of an over-supply of graduates, there may be a need for some re-emphasis in our approach to university education. 
It is significant that the real increase in spending on advanced education in 1977 compared with 1976 will, in fact, be 5 per cent, with expenditure estimated at $4 1 5m next year. This is an increase of some $20m on the figure for 1976. 1 now turn to an area which is, in some ways, related to advanced education. I think it is the most significant area in the current consideration of education in Australia. It is the field of technical and further education. The expenditure for 1977 is estimated at $79m which is a 7  per cent real increase- again, this is significant- on expenditure for 1976. It is also worth noting that expenditure was, in fact, reduced, from $74m in 1975 to $64m in 1976. The increase in 1977 is justified and I think it is urgently required. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said in his statement on this subject: 
This gives effect to the recommendations relating to 1977 contained in the report of the Technical and Further Education Commission for the triennium 1977-79. 
As the Minister noted in his statement, it is recognised that the primary responsibility for technical and further education rests with the States and the Commonwealth effort, in effect, is supplementary to the efforts of the States. It is important not only that the Commonwealth continue to increase its emphasis on technical and further education as it has in this Budget, but also that other governments do likewise. This is an area in which Australia faces potential shortages of technical skills, particularly in the near future. It is an area to which we must give increasing attention. 
The Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training is also to take into account the growing recognition of the importance of technical and further education. That applies not only to this country but also to many others. But our first interest obviously must be with Australia. It is worth recalling what the Minister said on 9 September when he was announcing the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training because it is relevant to the importance of technical and further education: 
One important reason for this review is the changing structure of post-secondary education. These developments have raised questions about the most appropriate allocation of responsibilities between the different sectors of postsecondary education. Boundaries between these sectors have become blurred. Particularly because of the establishment of separate commissions in post-secondary education there has grown up a tendency to treat the universities, the colleges of advanced education and institutions for technical and further education in isolation from each other. There is a need for the roles of these various institutions to be clarified. More than that, there is a need to consider how postsecondary education as a whole relates to the needs of individuals and to the linkages between education and employment. 
That emphasises the importance of all aspects of post-secondary or tertiary education but particularly technical and further education. This is an area in which Australia may well, within a few years, face a serious shortage of skills, a shortage which can have significant economic implications for the nation and one which we should now be doing everything in our power to avoid. The committee of inquiry which has been established will obviously have relevance to the growth and development of technical and further education and its role along with other post-secondary education in Australia. I hope that in the future technical education in this country is given a higher status which is more in accord with other tertiary and post-secondary institutions so that more people are attracted to technical education as a means of ensuring that Australia builds up its store of technical and related skills. 
It is worth noting that the largest area of real increase in the Government's education budget for 1977 is, in fact, in the area of technical and further education. I will say no more about the proposed amendment except to note that in the previous year there was a reduction in expenditure compared with a substantial increase this year. The terms of reference and the purposes of the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training indicate the importance that the Government attaches to this area and related areas of education. The real increase in expenditure on technical and further education for 1977 further emphasises the commitment of the 
Government to ensure that technical education is given the support it needs for Australia to build up the store of technical skills which will be required in the future. 
I mention in passing that recurrent funds for technical and further education in the Australian Capital Territory have increased by 3 1.5 per cent this year. This represents an increase of about $1.5m. Funds for professional teaching staff in TAFE institutions have increased by 47 per cent in the Capital Territory. The number of ancillary staff will be increased in 1977 by about 8 per cent. This again reflects the priority given by the Government to technical and further education, both in the national capital and in the nation as a whole. I make the point also that the technical and further education system in the Capital Territory is currently in the process of transferring from the New South Wales education system to the Commonwealth system. All these factors indicate the emphasis being placed by the present Government on education as an important area of community development; as a means of building up skills within the community which will be required in the future; as a means of providing greater choice and freedom for individuals as they expand their knowledge and therefore their ability to make choices of employment within the community. In concluding, I think it might be appropriate to refer to a summary of the Government's objectives in education. In referring to these on 9 September the Minister for Education said: 
These include widening educational opportunity, including access to education for those with the ability, but lacking the means; expanding educational and occupational choice; developing quality and excellence in all spheres of education and encouraging community participation in education and training matters. It is frequently said that we live in a society experiencing rapid change. Our educational system has a central role in increasing the capacity of people to adapt to change. This involves not merely increasing understanding of the nature of change. It includes also providing opportunities for re-entry into formal education, for the updating of old skills or the acquisition of new skills relevant to new needs and new demands. 
That summaries the import of the Bills before the House. I therefore have pleasure in supporting them. 
I present the following petition from 1 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Students' Association of the Australian National University has supported many non-university causes and, in particular, has given money to the Abortion Law Reform Society. 
That a student of the University, Peter Berzins, who consequently has a conscientious objection to paying the membership fee, has been advised by the University that, unless he pays the membership fee, his academic results for 1976 will not be released and his application for reenrollment in the University in 1977 will not be accepted. 
That the Australian National University was established by a Federal Act of Parliament and that the Federal Government has directed responsibility for the University. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate will act to remedy the injustice of compulsory fees for membership of the Students' Association at the National University. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Science. I wish to pursue a question which I asked on 10 November concerning the development of alternative energy resources in Australia. I refer to some of the issues raised in the 1976 publication of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation entitled  Research Program Objectives.  Given the difficulties, particularly the environmental problems, associated with the development of nuclear energy, can the Minister say what priority the Government attaches to the development of solar energy and other alternative energy sources? Is it accepted that the initiative for the development or encouragement of these energy sources should rest with the Commonwealth Government? Can the Minister indicate whether increasing emphasis will be given to the development of alternative energy sources, particularly solar energy, by the Government? 
I present the following petition from 285 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That we desire more consideraton and public discussion concerning the changes envisaged inthe Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill No. 2, 1 976. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Re-affirm the independence of the ABC as the National Broadcasting Service belonging to the people and not to the Government of the day, whatever political party. 
Reject a reduction of the numbers of ABC Commissioners, including the staff commissioner. 
Reject review of the ABC by the newly created Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, when similar reviews are not scheduled for the commercial broadcasting sector. 
Reject any reduction in the wide range of ABC programs by either direct censorship and/or financial restrictions. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition from 299 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
A naturalised Australian citizen, Marko Nazor, is unlawfully imprisoned in Yugoslavia as an honest and hard working and simple man who returned to his native country to see his mother. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Australian Parliament do everything in its power to persuade the Government of Yugoslavia to free this honest man and return to his family in Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Soviet Presence in Hungary 
I present the following petition from 15 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That in November 1956, following the attack on Budapest by Soviet troops, the Australian representative raised this matter in the General Assembly of the United Nations. 
That the General Assembly established a Special Committee to report on all aspects of the question of Soviet intervention in Hungary. 
That today, twenty years later, Soviet troops are still located in Hungary and the Soviet Union exercises undue influence over the affairs of that country. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will ask the Australian Government to instruct its representative in the United Nations to raise the subject of continuing Soviet interference in the affairs of Hungary. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Like other honourable senators, I rise with enthusiasm to support this Bill, which is a Bill to establish the office of Commonwealth Ombudsman and to enable the investigation of complaints about the administrative action of government departments, statutory authorities and other official bodies. I think that it is an important piece of reform legislation which deserves the sort of bipartisan support that it has received. The legislation recognises the complexities of Australian society and of government and administration and it also recognises the great need for new methods by which members of the public are able to appeal or complain about their dealings with government and Commonwealth employees where they feel that it is necessary to do so. 
Many other speakers have pointed out that the concept of the Ombudsman is not a new one. The first ombudsman of the kind which we are discussing was appointed in Sweden in the early nineteenth century. The first ombudsman in Australia was appointed, I think, in 1971. Since then five of the Australian States have appointed ombudsmen. The one thing in particular that these appointments have demonstrated has been the great need for this sort of office holder in our society. That need, of course, is also recognised clearly in this legislation, and the responsibility of the Commonwealth in appointing an ombudsman is also accepted through this legislation. 
While the legislation is specifically to appoint a Commonwealth ombudsman, it also provides for the appointment of 2 Deputy ombudsmen. I want to refer to that provision in particular. Clause 23 of the Bill provides that the Minister may by notice published in the Australian Government  Gazette  designate a Deputy Ombudsman for the Australian Capital Territory, and under sub-clause (2) of that clause it is stated: 
The Deputy Ombudsman for the Australian Capital Territory has all the powers, and may exercise all the functions, of the Commonwealth Ombudsman in relation to action taken by a Department or by a prescribed authority in the Australian Capital Territory, except the power to report to the Parliament under section 1 7 or 1 9. 
First of all that recognises in the appointment of the Deputy Ombudsman to the Capital Territory the particular responsibilities of the Commonwealth in this Territory. It will also ensure that the people of the Capital Territory will have access to an ombudsman in matters which in the States would now be directed to the State Ombudsman. While the Commonwealth Ombudsman will have power to investigate the whole field of administrative activity of government and to make recommendations for remedial action where necessary, the Australian Capital Territory's Deputy Ombudsman will be able to report directly to and seek action through the Commonwealth Ombudsman on matters directly relevant to the Capital Territory. Of course the Commonwealth Ombudsman's ultimate authority will be the right to report to Parliament if effective action to overcome a particular problem is not otherwise taken. The Legislative Assembly of the Capital Territory will be given reports by the Deputy Ombudsman relating to actions taken under the relevant ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. 
I would also like to refer to the relevance and the importance of this legislation to Commonwealth employees. It obviously has important implications for Commonwealth employees as it is their actions which the Ombudsman will be empowered to investigate if complaints are made. As a member of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association and one who was a Commonwealth employee for 11 years before entering this Parliament, I think this is a matter which deserves very close attention. In many cases the Ombudsman may find, as has occurred elsewhere, that the complaint would really identify a fault in the system or in administrative arrangements rather than with any individual. It is very difficult to obtain any accurate statistics, but it seems that around 10 per cent of complaints are found to be fully justified and requiring formal action by ombudsmen. I say that to indicate that it is really only in a small proportion of cases that ombudsmen generally have found it necessary to take action. The resolution of problems or complaints is usually obtained quickly and relatively simply. I have no doubt that the Ombudsman and the  Deputy  Ombudsmen when appointed will direct their attention to these sorts of administrative issues as well as to the question of complaints against individuals. It is my understanding that Public Service organisations and representatives consider that this Bill implements a valuable innovation. The Bill gives the Ombudsman and his deputies power to prevent unnecessary harassment of Commonwealth employees through complaints. I refer particularly to clause 6 of the Bill, which states:   the Ombudsman may, in his discretion, decide not to investigate the action or, if he has commenced to investigate the action, decide not to investigate the action further ... if 
This is among other reasons-  in the opinion of the Ombudsman- 
the complaint is frivolous or vexatious or was not made in good faith; 
That provision and others in clause 6 go a long way to ensuring that the Ombudsman will be able to protect Commonwealth employees against unnecessary action or complaint That is important. Of course it depends to some extent on the person appointed. I believe that the Ombudsman appointed should certainly give very close attention to the rights of Commonwealth employees in this respect. The Minister for Veterans ' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  in his second reading speech said: 
The Ombudsman and the Deputies are given protection from removal from office akin to that accorded to judges, so that there is little likelihood of an Ombudsman's independence of operation being influenced by the Executive Government. 
I can only say that I hope that provision is adhered to closely. There is provision in the Bill to ensure this, and I believe it should be observed in the most precise manner. That in itself, and the degree to which Parliament in the Bill has the ultimate right to seek the removal of an ombudsman through both Houses of Parliament, emphasises the close relationship between the Ombudsman and the national Parliament. So while the Commonwealth Ombudsman and his Deputies will allow the public to make their complaints on whatever grievances they feel need to be examined, this Parliament will also be provided with an opportunity to have a greater role in examining the administrative processes of government. That in itself is significant. It is also significant that the fundamental sanction that the Ombudsman has is the power to report to this Parliament. It is a very powerful sanction. I think it provides a significant potential role for Parliament in the examination of such issues. In particular I believe this legislation is a welcome and special recognition of the needs and rights of the people of the Capital Territory in the appointment of a Deputy Ombudsman. I have pleasure in supporting it. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer and concerns the Optacon, which is a device to assist the visually handicapped in reading. I ask this question because I have had inquiries from people who have informed me that sales tax is charged on the Optacon although it is not imposed on, for example, Braille equipment. I ask the Minister whether sales tax is in fact charged when the Optacon is purchased by a blind or visually handicapped person? If such sales tax is levied on the Optacon, will consideration be given to an exemption for visually handicapped people purchasing this device which, as I understand, can be used only for the purpose of assisting the visually handicapped in reading? 
I present the following petition from 3244 citizens of the Australian Capital Territory: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Canberra and electors in the Divisions of Fraser and Canberra respectfully showeth: 
That in response to the National Capital Development Commission proposals for urban development of the foothills of Mount Ainslie and Mount Majura we wish to make it known that we are opposed to any urban development of these foothills beyond that which already exists, for the following reasons. 
The foothills are important to Canberra as a city with an outstanding international reputation for promoting balance between urban development and the preservation of environments which complement that development, a balance which would be lost if urban development is permitted to extend any higher on the foothills. 
The area is of significant scenic value as an integral part of the Walter Burley Griffin Canberra plan, a plan which has been adopted by Canberra's citizens and which embodies the concept of a garden city; the natural bushland of the foothills being a vital element of that concept. 
Having this unique woodland area in the centre of the National Capital provides a readily accessible facility which enables people to identify with what remains of their bushland heritage. 
The foothill woodlands have considerable educational value in their flora, fauna, geology and geography in close proximity to students of diverse age in the formal and informal education process. This value will increase as Canberra's population increases. 
The foothills have recreational value to a wide range of people for trail walks, school outings, children's recreation and development, leisurely walks for more elderly residents, for fitness and training exercises, for orienteering and for relaxation and retreat from the pressures of urban life. This recreational value will increase particularly if areas in old Canberra as it now exists are developed to house a larger population. 
The foothills remain one of the best surviving examples of Eucalyptus melliodora and Eucalyptus blakely: woodland. 
The foothills and the mountain together form an environment which sustains special members of Australia's fauna, the grey kangaroo and swamp wallaby, which can be frequently observed grazing on the foothills. The area is in practice an open fauna reserve in the heart of the National Capital. 
Canberra residents and local residents in particular have come to appreciate the foothills as a permanent element in the landscape of their city. Local residents in particular have made investments and lifelong decisions on the basis of the performance of the bushland which exists at this time on the foothills. 
The foothills are a unique and irreplaceable property asset to the community as a whole, an asset which should not be transferred to a very small minority as would occur if urban development is permitted. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government recognises the recreational, educational and environmental value to the Canberra community and to the National Capital of the bushland of the Mount Ainslie, Mount Majura area of which the foothills form a vital and integral part and that the Government takes measures to ensure that there is no residential, commercial, roadway or other urban infrastructural development beyond that which already exists on these foothills and that the Government takes measures to ensure the preservation of this area as a nature reserve for the benefit of the present and future generations. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Social Security concerning a recommendation accepted by the first joint national conference of the Australian Association for the Mentally Retarded and the Australian Group for the Scientific Study of Mental Deficiency. The recommendation was that an Australian institute on mental retardation be established. Can the Minister say what progress has been made with proposals to establish such an institute? In particular, will the Minister indicate the Government's attitude to the proposal and can she say whether the Government supports the establishment of an Australian institute on mental retardation? 
I bring up the report of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory entitled  Canberra City Wastes: A Long Term Study Into Collection and Disposal. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Senator KNIGHT (Australian Capital Territory)- I seek leave to make a brief statement in relation to the report. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What areas of Lake Burley Griffin are to be filled in to provide for the construction of the proposed Molonglo Arterial roadway. 
What proportion of area of the Lake does this represent. 
Is the Minister able to give an assurance that this action will not affect current recreational use of the Lake and its shore. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Is information available concerning the possible impact of the construction and future use of the Molonglo Arterial roadway on the Canberra Botanic Gardens, including the proposed extensions to those Gardens. If so, does this information suggest that there will be any adverse effect on the Gardens or on their future development. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the reasons for the proposed construction of the Molonglo Arterial roadway at this time. 
How does it relate to (a) current traffic planning; (b) future roadway construction proposals; and (c) general planning concepts and proposals for the Australian Capital Territory. 
Will the Minister provide information concerning expected future traffic flows on the Molonglo Arterial. 
Will the Minister indicate the anticipated effect on traffic flows on other relevant main roads if the Molonglo Arterial is not constructed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the reasons for providing a tunnel section on the proposed Molongo arterial roadway. 
Where is the tunnel to be situated. 
What is the net additional cost involved in constructing this tunnel, as against construction of a surface roadway over the distance which is to be a tunnel. 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and I refer to the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill 1976. In his second reading speech in another place yesterday, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations said: 
These new approaches are a significant improvement over existing provisions. 
Can the Minister outline how the measures contained in this new legislation are an improvement in terms of first, redeployment and, secondly, retirement for Commonwealth employees? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What consultations have been held with the community concerning the proposed construction of the Molonglo Arterial roadway in Canberra. 
What has been the outcome of these consultations in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister list all of the studies undertaken by or on behalf of the Government and its authorities concerning the construction of the proposed Molonglo Arterial roadway to link Parkes Way with the Tuggeranong Parkway. 
Will the Minister indicate, by way of summary in each case, the outcome of these studies. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister outline the plans, if any, for the future development of a rapid transit system in the Capital Territory. 
What action has been taken until now to establish a rapid transit system. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
To what extent is the Australian Capital Territory being publicised and promoted as a tourist centre (a) in each State of Australia, and (b) internationally. 
What budget has been established to provide for these activities. 
How is such publicity organised, promoted and administered (a) in each State, and (b) internationally. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What action has so far been taken to investigate proposals made by the South Pacific Regional Civil Aviation Council, including matters outlined in the communique issued after the South Pacific Forum meeting in July relating to (a) regional requirements for air services; (b) rationalisation of routes and schedules within the region as a means to meeting these requirements; (c) identification of impediments to proposed services to achieve a better regional co-ordination of routes and schedules; and (d) eligibility of the region as a group for membership of the International Civil Aviation Organisation and the possibilities and advantages of such membership. 
What part has Australia played in these considerations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What action has been taken to establish a South Pacific regional shipping line as recommended recently by the South Pacific Forum. 
What part has Australia taken in this. 
What role is foreseen for Australia in the proposed regional shipping project. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Following the announcement of the new aid program for the South Pacific can the Minister give further details of the role to be played by non-Government organisations in the future of Australia's aid programs in the South Pacific area. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that it has been reported that, in theory, up to half Britain's total requirement for electricity could be met from the energy provided by ocean waves through special devices covering a stretch of ocean 600 miles long and that the British Government is supporting research into this form of energy conversion. 
What research is being done on this subject in Australia. 
What government funds have been made available for such research. 
What further action is proposed to explore this alternative energy source. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts, upon notice: 
Will a Chinese archaeological exhibition tour Australia early in 1977. 
In what cities will the collection be displayed. 
For how long will the collection be displayed in each place. 
I present the following petition from 28 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That previous public inquiries into the Molonglo Arterial- Western Distributor have not considered Canberra 's total transport needs; 
That construction of the proposed Molonglo Freeway will divert scarce public resources away from Canberra s public transport system; 
That Canberra's high unemployment problems will only be solved satisfactorily, both socially and environmentally, by the construction of urgently needed public transport facilities; 
That massive environmental degradation of Lake Burley Griffin's foreshores will occur if the proposed Molonglo Freeway is constructed; 
That Canberra's air pollution levels are already dangerously high as a direct result of over-dependence on the motor car for private transport and this situation will not be rectified in the foreseeable future by vehicle exhaust emission controls; 
That many Canberra residents, particularly in the young and elderly age groups, do not have unfettered access to a car and therefore will be substantially disadvantaged if the money proposed for the construction of the freeway is not channelled into public transport facilities which will benefit these groups; 
We your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Molonglo Arterial and Western Distributor be deferred until a full public enquiry has been carried out investigating Canberra 's total transport needs. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the proposal for the establishment of an Australian institute on mental retardation, particularly a detailed public document which has now been prepared by those associated with this proposal and which I understand has been formally submitted to the Minister. Can the Minister say what consideration has been or is being given to this proposal and what progress has been made towards the establishment of a national institute on mental retardation? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Following a recent decision of the High Court can the Minister say what consideration has been given to action to ensure that the people of the Australian territories will bo accorded recognition as citizens of the Commonwealth in every respect? Can the Minister indicate whether this can be done by legislative action or is a constitutional amendment required? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, relates to allegations of atrocities in East Timor. Is the Minister aware of reports and has he any information concerning allegations of atrocities by Fretilin forces in East Timor? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Where have cycle paths been constructed in 
Canberra North 
Canberra South 
Woden Valley- Weston Creek 
Tuggeranong; and 
Belconnen. 
Where are cycle paths planned in each of these areas. 
What stage has planning reached and when is construction likely to begin in each case. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services, relates to earlier questions I have asked concerning the training of people to maintain and restore cultural and historical materials in Australia. Can the Minister say whether any progress has been made in establishing a course in Australia to train people in the highly specialised and technical skills required to preserve items of our cultural heritage? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory's (a) retail, (b) restaurant, (c) cinema, (d) indoor sporting/recreation, (e) outdoor sporting/recreation, (f) primary schools, (g) secondary schools, (h) pre-schools, (i) childcare, (j) playground, and (k) parkland, facilities has been established in the Tuggeranong area of the Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory's (a) retail, (b) restaurant, (c) cinema, (d) indoor sporting/recreation, (e) outdoor sporting/recreation, (f) primary schools, (g) secondary schools, (h) pre-schools, (i) childcare, (j) playground, and (k) parkland, facilities has been established in the Woden Valley- Weston Creek area of the Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon  notice: 
What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory's (a) retail, (b) restaurant, (c) cinema, (d) indoor sporting/recreation, (e) outdoor sporting/recreation,  (0  primary schools, (g) secondary schools, (h) pre-schools, (i) childcare, (j) playground, and (k) parkland, facilities has been established in the Belconnen area of the Territory. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs concerning developments in the New Hebrides. Can the Minister say what progress has been made towards independence for the New Hebrides? Can he indicate whether Australia is considering establishing representation in Vila to ensure that Australia is fully informed of developments in the New Hebrides and that Australia's interests and citizens in the area are fully protected and have direct access to Australian Government representatives? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory's (a) retail, (b) restaurant, (c) cinema, (d) indoor sporting/recreation (e) outdoor sporting/recreation, (f) primary schools, (g) secondary schools, (h) pre-schools, (i) childcare, (j) playground, and (k) parkland, facilities has been established in the North Canberra area of the Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory's (a) retail, (b) restaurant, (c) cinema, (d) indoor sporting/recreation, (e) outdoor sporting/recreation, (f) primary schools, (g) secondary schools, (h) pre-schools, (i) childcare, (j) playground, and (k) parkland, facilities has been established in the South Canberra area of the Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has action been taken on a suggestion contained in a submission published in the Aircraft Owners and Pilots' Association magazine of June 1976 that there is 'potential within GA ranks for a co-operative effort with the Department of Defence to maintain a large number of pilots in a state of defence-preparedness'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What progress has been made in preparing a mental health ordinance for the Capital Territory. 
What consultations have been held in this process. 
3 ) When will the ordinance come into force. 
I present the following petition from 95 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government take note: 
That we are utterly opposed to the National Capital Development Commissions proposal to erect eighteen town houses on Block 3 of Section 107, Ainslie. 
The suggested development would destroy one of the most attractive small parks in Canberra. Section 107, which has been developed and maintained as a park since the original subdivision of the area, provides a variety of opportunities for recreation and relaxation and contributes to the physical and mental health of many people who come to the park to exercise dogs, play games, or simply to enjoy the views and peaceful surroundings. 
Town houses would be completely out of character with the existing residences in the area and their construction on Block 3 of Section 107 would alienate the major part of what is at present an invaluable community amenity. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government take measures to have the entire area of Section 107 gazetted as parkland as a matter of urgency. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. I refer to reports that the State of Oregon in the United States of America has banned the sale of aerosol sprays that contain fluorocarbons which are claimed to have adverse effects on the earth's protective ozone layer. Can the Minister outline what investigations of these claims have been or are being made and the outcome of those inquiries? Can he indicate whether the Oregon legislation has been examined by the Government and whether there are any plans to introduce similar legislation in Australia? 
I address a question to you,  Mr President.  I refer to reports that the Government of Queensland has challenged in the High Court of Australia the right of Territories to be represented in this chamber. I understand that writs have now been filed with the High Court. As the status of senators from the Territories has now been challenged and as the matter is in effect  sub judice,  can you say whether Territorial senators will have the right to sit in this chamber, to participate in debates and to vote while this case is being dealt with? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to reports that the Handicapped Citizens' Association (A.C.T.) Incorporated, also known as Koomarri, is facing severe financial difficulties. Is the Minister aware of this situation and can she say whether any immediate assistance can be given to Koomarri to overcome the problems which have arisen and to ensure that services to handicapped people in the Australian Capital Territory are not adversely affected? 
Is the Minister for Education aware of reports that classes at Hawker College in the Australian Capital Territory will be disrupted because of rolling strikes by teachers over the need for a kitchen assistant for home science classes? Has the Minister seen a report in today's  Canberra Times  that the  President  of the A.C.T. Teachers Federation has accused the Minister of deliberately holding up a report on ancillary staffing which supports the teachers' case? Can the Minister indicate the background to the undesirable situation which has now arisen at Hawker College? Can he say what action can be taken to end the present disruption to classes at the College? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Science. I refer to reports that the Canberra regional office of the Bureau of Meteorology might be reduced in size or even closed. Can the Minister give an undertaking that there will be no curtailment of this important information service to the community concerning weather conditions and that the Bureau will continue to operate a regional office in Canberra? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and refer to a report prepared by  Mr Dunn bf  the Legislative Research Service of the Parliament concerning Timorese refugees in Portugal.  Mr Dunn  says in his report: 
About 95 per cent of the Timorese wish to come to Australia where more than a third of them are said to have relatives, most of whom came to Australia as refugees from Timor in August 1975. 
Can the Minister indicate what action has been taken by Australian immigration authorities to contact Timorese refugees in Portugal who may wish to come to Australia? What action is being taken to assist these people? What further action will the Government take to assist them with their applications? In particular, will an immigration office be established in Lisbon to handle applications from Timorese refugees? 
Senatore  GUILFOYLE- In question No. 242 on the notice paper  Senator Georges  calls for statistics relating to the current position of applications for immigration from East Timorese in Portugal. This information is being extracted by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in reply to the question and will be provided as soon as possible. However, there are some answers which I can give at this stage in reply to the other matters raised by the honourable senator. I understand that  Mr Dunn's  statements are not entirely accurate. There are some 1400 East Timorese evacuees in Portugal. They have Portuguese citizenship and a considerable proportion of them speak Portuguese. Fewer than 600 East Timorese refugees in Portugal have applied for migrant entry to Australia. Their applications are being considered sympathetically. The figure given by  Mr Dunn  concerning the proportion of refugees who are said to have relatives in Australia overstates the total as known to the Department of Immigration and 
Ethnic Affairs. A closer estimate would be that between 5 per cent and 10 per cent have claimed relationships with Australian residents. Many of these are distant relationships- for example, cousins, nephews or nieces. Unfortunately, most of the evacuees do not have good prospects for employment in Australia. They do not have skills or experience in demand in this country and most do not speak English. 
The debate so far has been very wide ranging. I want to refer to a few specific areas only. It is significant that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  has been welcomed by many honourable senators opposite. Of course, it has been unanimously welcomed by honourable senators on this side of the chamber. That is rightly so despite  Senator Sibraa  's charges of vagueness. 1 am not one who believes that bipartisanship in foreign policy is necessarily desirable with respect to every aspect of foreign policy though it is perhaps in important areas. Debate itself is important and debate on significant issues of foreign policy should be conducted in a sensible and reasonable way. I think that is the way this debate has been conducted. Nevertheless the statement, and the debate which has followed it, has shown a welcome degree of bipartisanship in foreign policy. 
The Foreign Minister's statement deserves to be welcomed as one of the most significant to have been put to the Parliament in several years. It is a realistic and independent approach to foreign policy. It is all the more commendable for the fact that it does not need to assert that in any strident tone. The Minister in his statement made reference to what he has called elsewhere the changing agenda of international relationships. That, of course, refers to the basic shift of emphasis from political matters and military power to economic and particularly resources issues in foreign policy. The point has been made and I think quite properly that this is likely to result in more demands being made on Australia and in some respects more pressure being brought to bear on us in international affairs. 
The Foreign Minister's statement to the Parliament recognises implicitly but clearly that we are no longer living in what has often been called a 'post- Vietnam' situation which is far too simplistic a way of looking at the international situation now. There have been many other changes of great significance. Recently a new government was elected in Japan. There is a new administration in China. Vietnam has established itself as a major force in Indo-China. Laos and Cambodia are facing a less certain, less clear future. Thailand has political problems, lt has insurgency in the south and in the north and more than 75 000 refugees from the Indo-China conflict. This is a matter to which I will return later. 
The Association of South East Asian Nations has emerged in the last few years as a coherent and, I think, significant regional force. It has developed special dialogues with countries such as Australia, Japan, Canada and also the European Communities. The Foreign Minister quite rightly has made reference to the importance of the European communities to Australia. Reference has also been made to the very significant and very recent changes in the Indian sub-continent. I endorse what  Senator Sibraa  has said about the victory of democracy which we have seen in the last few days in the Indian subcontinent. It is a very significant change that the Indian Congress Party has been displaced from power after 30 years. The Congress Party has ruled India since independence and for the first time a new party, Janata, will take over. I think that to the leaders of Janata all of us would extend our congratulations and good wishes in the enormous tasks confronting them. Men who have led India at different times over the years, men such as Jayaprakash Narayan and Jagjivan Ram and Morarji Desai, would now seem to be at the helm of India, and we must wish them well. 
All of these events have produced a situation in Asia and in the region around Australia which requires new policies and responses from us. Those new responses are evident in the statement made by the Foreign Minister. He has made it clear, and rightly so, that we are not living in the bi-polar super power world of a few years ago. We are living in a world where there are new forces, one of the most important being the countries of the Third World which are taking a much stronger and more assertive role in international affairs, a role of which we must be cognisant. These responses and policies, as I believe the Minister's statement indicates quite clearly, are now being formulated on the basis of a clear perception of the new agenda in international relations. One of the major factors which may require a new response from Australia is the new administration in the United 
States. It could require some reassessment in particular by Australia of the new international agenda. 
The Carter Administration has already indicated that it will give priority in its international relationships to Europe and Japan, and VicePresident Mondale 's recent overseas visits have made that clear enough. The international trouble spots which have attracted the attention of the new administration are the Middle East and Africa. It seems that South East Asia and the related South Pacific area will be of relatively low priority in the foreign policy of the new administration. Despite statements concerning consultations with traditional allies, I think we have to recognise that Australia may be even more on the periphery of United States policy than it has been in the past. That will require a reassessment of our relationship and our alliance with the United States. It will also require a reassessment of Australia's regional role, and 1 believe it will mean that a greater effort has to be made by us- and by Japan, I should add- in this region. In fact, our relationship with the United States may need to be supplemented by a more integrated relationship with Japan and the countries of ASEAN. Because of these developments. I believe that our relationship with the United States will be more diverse and complex and possibly a much more substantial relationship in the future. 
The Minister's statement draws attention to proposals for what is referred to as a 'new international economic order'. These proposals will be of particular significance in the region in which we live. In fact, the proposals will be fundamental to Australia's future relations with ASEAN and the South Pacific countries. Australia introduced preferences for lesser developed countries in 1966, which was an early recognition of the importance of trade as well as aid and of one of the factors which is emerging as fundamental to the idea of a new international economic order. In December last year the Government announced the introduction of new trade concessions for developing countries under the multilateral trade negotiations. The sorts of new concepts which are now emerging in international affairs relate to issues such as the exchange of technology, tariffs, transnational corporations and their operations, the transfer of resources, energy, and the general question of resources. The Minister put this very clearly in his statement to the Parliament, and I think it is worth recalling that he said: 
For at least the next decade, we will still bc a sparselypopulated and richly-endowed country in a world which is going to be increasingly overcrowded, short of food, energy and other essentials, and seized of the importance of how the world's resources are distributed and utilised. This is not an empty cliche. It points to the heart of Australia's foreign policy problem over the coming years. We had better address ourselves to it because it will certainly address itself to us. Those who think that it is a realistic approach to stand pat, to wait and see, to conduct business as usual, are seriously under-estimating the dynamics of the situation. In many areas the time for decision is rapidly approaching. 
I might say that I do not think that makes foreign policy an 'adjunct of trade policy', as it was called by  Senator Sibraa.  I suggest that in fact it is a realistic statement of the complex elements which now go to make foreign policy and which are unavoidably part of foreign policy. These new aspects, these new concepts, particularly with respect to international economic relations, are inextricably linked with the range of traditional foreign policy issues, and the Minister's statement has quite properly recognised that link and has stressed the point in very clear terms. 
With respect to Australia's development assistance, it has always been based on the principle of direct grants, and I believe that that principle must be maintained. Our development assistance should contribute directly to development but also to greater self-reliance for the countries concerned, and I suggest two particular areas where I think greater emphasis might be given. The first is the provision of what has come to be known as 'intermediate technology' so that equipment or training is directly relevant to the needs and capacities of the recipient. The second is what is referred to as 'grass roots' projects, which include small village level projects in Asian or Pacific countries, providing direct assistance, whether it is finance, equipment, training or personnel, for development at the local level. I simply make the point that I for one reject the facile dedication to targets in aid. While I believe our aid should be expanded significantly and rapidly, I do not think that the setting of targets is the most relevant criterion, lt is the nature, the quality and the relevance of our aid to the recipient that counts. 
Another area where assistance is important is that of refugees. We should be doing everything we can to assist Indo-Chinese refugees in particular. In fact this is a very important foreign policy issue. While obviously many aspects of the issue are dealt with by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  it nevertheless remains a foreign policy issue, an issue which will have an impact upon our relations with countries around the world. In February I visited Thailand, where more than 75 000 refugees are now living in camps in various parts of the country. I visited one such camp 10 kilometres inside the Laotian border where there were 1 2 000 people. People such as these are not welcomed by Thailand, though the Thais have done much, in fact an enormous amount, to help. The refugees cannot go back to their homelands, and I am sure that it is obvious to anyone visiting the camps, and presumably to others who have not had that opportunity, that these people are in a desperate plight living in refugee camps. I believe that countries such as Australia should do more. 
Reference has already been made to the report on the refugee problem made by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Last November the Committee recommended that guidelines and administrative arrangements to assist refugees should be established. I believe that that has to be done as a matter of urgency. In paragraph 7.1 of the report reference is made to the need for a comprehensive set of policy guidelines, together with the necessary administrative machinery to be applied to refugee situations. Paragraph 7.4 states: 
. resettlement should be viewed as a continuum which commenced with the displacement and flight of refugees and ceases - 
I insert the word 'only'-  on their integration into the community of the receiving country: 
Paragraph 7.14 calls for the establishment of an Australian refugee policy council. Paragraph 7.18 proposes a standing interdepartmental committee on refugees. It is significant that in each of those last 2 cases it is recommended that the Department of Foreign Affairs be represented. That is a proper recognition, I think, of the extent to which this matter is a foreign policy issue. I add that I think the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  has shown an enlightened approach to the plight of IndoChinese refugees. I know also that he was in Thailand in February. I think we have to continue to extend our efforts for these people as well as for other refugees from such areas as East Timor and the Lebanon. 
I refer also to the Indian Ocean, a subject on which a number of speakers have made comments. Suggestions have been made from time to time that the Indian Ocean should become a zone of peace. The assumption seems to be that if the super-powers, and presumably all other powers, remove all their forces and facilities it will then be a zone of peace. It is then apparently assumed that this will always remain the case. However, there is the question of what future attitude regional powers might adopt. If there is to be a zone of peace it seems to me that there are at least 3 primary requirements before such a proposal ceases to be a very fine aspiration, as it is, and becomes in any sense a real possibility. The first is that the United States should agree to the proposal; secondly, that the Soviet Union should agree to the proposal; and, thirdly, that both super-powers then should completely remove all their forces, bases and any other facilities from the Indian Ocean. Of those 3 primary criteria it seems that part of the first criterion has been fulfilled but no other. 

 President Carter has referred to 'demilitarisation' of the Indian Ocean, but he has since clarified this by referring to- and I quote from Press reports I have seen- mutual military restraint. This is clearly in accord with the position set down by the Foreign Minister,  Mr Peacock.  He stated: 
. it can only become a zone of peace if it first becomes a zone of balance. Our concern, repeatedly stated, is that this balance be achieved at the lowest practicable level. 
I think that accords with the statement which has now been made by President Carter, that is, that there should be mutual military restraint in the Indian Ocean. This is something with which I think we would all agree. 
With respect to the Middle East, the Foreign Minister's statement makes clear the Government's unequivocal support for Israel's right to exist and for its security and its borders to be assured. But this cannot happen while the Palestine Liberation Organisation rejects Israel's right to exist. There has been some slight but most indeterminate movement recently, but I think it needs to be made clear that there is no indication at all that the PLO will recognise Israel's right to exist. Until the PLO is prepared unequivocally to reverse its stand I believe we must reject the PLO's attitude to Israel. That does not mean that we do not have concern for the Palestinian people, all of whom are not necessarily represented, by any means, by the PLO. There should be a homeland for refugees who have suffered in the strife of the Middle East for the past 30 years. I make the point that the Arab states have to accept their responsibilities also, particularly the States of Syria and Jordan, for example. 
It is recognised that foreign policy is traditionally the preserve of the executive government. But implicit in much of what the Foreign Minister has said has been the need for greater community participation. He made this much more explicit in an earlier statement. I quote from a speech by the Foreign Minister on 18 November 1976 in which he said, referring to foreign policy: 
These things cannot, and should not, be done by Government alone. What I have spoken of is a national agenda, not a government agenda, and unless we can find answers which have widespread support in the community, they will not be viable answers ... If Australia- a country rich in food, minerals, energy, space; a country far removed geographically from other developed countries; a sparsely populated country; a country with a black minority- is to move successfully through a quarter century in which issues of resources, economic inequality, food, race, population are going to assume an unprecedented importance, then it is essential that the Australian people as a whole become involved in and informed about the process of shaping our foreign policy. 
I believe that is a most significant statement; it is important that the community should become more involved in the foreign policy process. I have said already that this process normally is very much the preserve of executive government. There are reasons for this. These include the lack of legislation on international affairs, the need for confidentiality in many international dealings and the general preoccupation of the Parliament with domestic issues. 
There is a need, I think, to try to involve the community more. Perhaps this has never been more important than it is at the present time of change, uncertainty and greater complexities in the international arena. It is obviously the responsibility of governments to. assess the views of the community more thoroughly, particularly before going ahead with some of the essential adjustments to our foreign policy in changing circumstances to which I have referred and to which, of course, the Foreign Minister referred. There is a great need for closer communication between the Government and the people on foreign policy issues so that the Government is better aware of the feelings of-the community on such issues and so that the people better understand changes occurring in the world and the action the Government is taking in respect of them. It is all too rarely that we have a debate such as this in the Parliament. In the late 1960s Canada conducted an experiment in obtaining public views on foreign policy. I think there may be a lesson in that. There could be value in holding a series of meetings and seminars around Australia under the auspices of the Government. These could be held in conjunction with interested groups, such as the Australian Institute of International Affairs and the Australian Council for Overseas Aid and other appropriate groups and organisations. Such meetings could be addressed by Ministers, other Government representatives and senior Public Service officials. They could involve a wide range of Commonwealth departments' such as the Department of Overseas Trade, the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, the Department of Defence, the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Primary Industry, the Department of Industry and Commerce, the Department of Science, the Australian Broadcasting Commission and Radio Australia and the Atomic Energy Commission. Almost every department and instrumentality of the Commonwealth is relevant to Australia's international policies. 
This process could be conducted over a period of several months with a report going to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Foreign Minister, perhaps suggesting the lines of development for Australia 's foreign policy in the years immediately ahead. I believe this could ensure a greater degree of public comment on and perhaps contribution to an area of policy on which the general community usually has far too little opportunity to comment or to participate with the decision makers. This process could deal also with the development and structure of Australia 's overseas service. Australia obviously relies very heavily on its international links, particularly in terms of our security and trade. It is important that the morale of our overseas service be maintained and that it has a backup to operate efficiently and effectively in Australia's interests. 
The great challenges to Australia's foreign policy in the late 1970s are the new factors and the greater complexities which are now emerging in international relationships. This will require new responses. I think the Foreign Minister's statement recognises these factors and outlines new responses. The statement that the Minister has made sets an appropriate course for Australia's foreign policy into the 1980s. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Can the Minister say whether the Government has investigated reports which indicate that the Carter Administration in the United States of America has accorded  de jure  recognition to Indonesian incorporation of East Timor? If so, what do these investigations indicate with respect to the United States' stand on this matter? Can the Minister say what the Government's attitude is? Has it accorded either  de facto  or  de jure  recognition to Indonesian control of East Timor? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. I refer to a report in this morning's  Canberra Times  dealing with a Public Service Board review of ancillary staff for Australian Capital Territory schools. According to this report, the Australian Capital Territory Teachers Federation has said that the review provides for 61 more ancillary staff at Australian Capital Territory schools and for longer working hours. Is the Minister aware that the report in the  Canberra Times  indicates that at a meeting called by the Teachers Federation yesterday, it was decided by vote that the Minister should, as I understand it from the report, have until 22 April to implement the recommendations of the report and if this does not happen the Federation's council has been asked to call a stoppage to consider further action? Can the Minister indicate what action he will take on these matters in the interests of education in the Australian Capital Territory? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport indicate whether any progress has been made in assessing the need for and the possible siting of a new airport for Canberra? Can the Minister say whether current landing and other navigational and related aids at Canberra Airport are adequate, particularly in winter and during fog conditions? Has any consideration been given to providing fog dispersal machines, such as those which are in use at a number of airports in other countries, to overcome problems likely to occur in the coming months at Canberra Airport? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What international conventions, treaties or other agreements did Australia sign, ratify or otherwise enter into during 1976. 
Will the Minister list these conventions, treaties or other agreements, indicating the nature of Australia's participation and the date on which this was established. 
Will the Minister indicate (a) what action has been taken, (b) what action is required, or (c) what action is proposed to give effect to all or pan of each of the conventions, treaties or other agreements listed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Did the 30th United Nations General Assembly designate 1981 as the Year of the Disabled following recommendations from a Committee of the United Nations dealing with human rights? 
What role did Australia play in the United Nations reaching this decision? 
What role is it anticipated Australia will play internationally in implementing this decision of the United Nations? 
Who will be responsible for coordinating action on this matter? 
What action is proposed within Australia, and who will be responsible for this? 
What action has so far been taken on it? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and I refer to difficulties which have been experienced on some occasions by organisations in the Australian Capital Territory with respect to assistance provided through the Minister's Department. Can the Minister say whether consideration has been or is being given to having Australian Capital Territory welfare programs administered in Canberra rather than through the Department's New South Wales office? Will it be possible in future for separate and specific Budget allocations to be made for Australian Capital Territory programs? If the Minister feels it necessary and considers it appropriate will she seek the views of the Australian Capital Territory Social Welfare Consultative Committee on these matters urgently with a view to possible reforms in the 1977-78 Budget? 
In considering the proposed reference of the matter of East Timor to a senate select committee, or to the Senate Standing Committe on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I think we have to ask ourselves what such a reference would achieve. In particular, we have to ask whether it would achieve what I assume we all hope is the ultimate aim of whatever we say or do about East Timor, that is, to bring an end to the suffering of the people of East Timor. To decide that, it is necessary to look at the record to assess what more should or could be done in these circumstances to achieve this aim. I might say in passing that I do not accept the view that this subject is inappropriate for reference to either a select committee or a Senate standing committee. I believe that the Senate is competent to decide whether such a matter should be referred, and the question involved is whether, in agreeing to such a reference and in pursuing it, we would best achieve the ultimate purpose which I believe we all seek. 
I should like to make a particular reference to  Mr Dunn  and his activities in regard to East Timor, as well as to his report entitled 'Talks with Timorese Refugees in Portugal'. 1 think the title of the report is of particular significance, because it is precisely a report on talks with Timorese refugees. However that report may have been used and however it may have been portrayed in some cases, it is nothing more than a report of his discussions. As I understand it,  Mr Dunn  has never claimed that it is anything more than that. I want to make it quite clear that I for one do not question Jim Dunn's sincerity and I do not question his concern for the people of East Timor, a concern which I share. I certainly do not question the ideals which have motivated him in his pursuit of the rights and interests of the people of East Timor, / believe that his report is a valuable one. It is a report of discussions and, as I pointed out, he claims nothing more for it. But it does raise issues which ought to bc of great concern to this Parliament and the people of Australia. In particular, I believe that his report serves to emphasise the difficulties involved in resolving the issues on the question of East Timor with respect to both our relations with Indonesia and the suffering of the people of East Timor. 
I wish to make one related point. I think it is regrettable that in the course of the debate which has ensued, not necessarily on this occasion but earlier, both in this chamber and in the other place, there have been quite unwarranted criticisms of officers of the Australian Public Service, particularly of the Department of Foreign Affairs. I say only that I think it is unseemly for members of Parliament to pursue those sorts of attacks on public servants, who are there to provide advice to governments, and it is up to governments to take responsibility for their actions and their decisions. Equally, it is for parliamentarians who are members of those governments to share that responsibility. It seems to me inappropriate that at any time members of Parliament, either of the present Government or the former Government, should seek to place any blame on public servants who, as far as I am concerned, have done their best to advise governments on what they see as the best course for Australia. 
I think it is worth looking back to the fact that the issue of East Timor was first raised in the Australian Parliament by the present Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  when he was shadow Foreign Minister in an urgency motion in February 1975. In 1974  Mr Peacock  and I had met with Ramos-Horta of Fretilin when he was in Australia. At that time he warned of possible civil war and invasion by Indonesia. We were aware of those problems;  Mr Peacock  was aware of those problems, and went to the extent of raising the matter as a motion of urgency in the Parliament, expressing concern over the developing situation in East Timor and the need for action. Even before that time he had issued a public statement in September 1974, as I recall it, expressing concern on the part of the then Opposition at the situation which was developing in East Timor. I make the point, without any view to criticism of the previous Government but simply to indicate the lack of urgency with which the matter was considered, that that urgency motion was answered by the most junior Minister in the Labor Government.  His  response was that it was a pity that the matter had been raised because it would create differences between Indonesia and Australia. 
The present Government has consistently called for a proper act of self-determination for the people of East Timor under United Nations auspices. It has called for the withdrawal of Indonesian forces in East Timor and it voted for that in the United Nations. It has said consistently that the International Red Cross should be permitted to operate in East Timor, and it voted for the United Nations resolution in December 1975 which embodied those principles and called particularly for the withdrawal of Indonesian forces. It was through the United Nations that we worked in 1975 to try to prevent an Indonesian invasion, which by then was clearly imminent. On 12 December the United Nations General Assembly adopted a resolution urging the withdrawal of Indonesian forces and self-determination for the people of East Timor as I have already mentioned. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the text of that important resolution of the General Assembly. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 3485  (XXX).  Question of Timor 
The General Assembly 
Recognizing the inalienable right of all peoples to selfdetermination and independence in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in its resolution 1 5 1 4 ( X V ) of 14 December 1960, 
Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the question of Timor, 
Having heard the statements of the representatives of Portugal, as the administering Power, concerning developments in Portuguese Timor and the implementation with regard to that Territory of the relevant provisions of the Charter and the Declaration, as well as those of General Assembly resolution 1541 (XV) of 15 December 1960, 
Bearing in mind the responsibility of the administering Power to undertake all efforts to create conditions enabling the people of Portuguese Timor to exercise freely their right to self-determination, freedom and independence and to determine their future political status in accordance with the principles of the Charter and the Declaration, in an atmosphere of peace and order, 
Mindful that all States should, in conformity with Article 2, paragraph 4, of the Charter, refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or national independence of any State, or from taking any action inconsistent with the purposes and principles of the Chaner, 
Deeply concerned at the critical situation resulting from the military intervention of the armed forces of Indonesia in Portuguese Timor, 
Calls upon all States to respect the inalienable right of the people of Portuguese Timor to self-determination, freedom and independence and to determine their future political status in accordance with the principles of the Chaner of the United Nations and the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples; 
Calls upon the administering Power to continue to make every effort to find a solution by peaceful means through talks between the Government of Portugal and the political parties representing the people of Portuguese Timor: 
Appeals to all the parties in Portuguese Timor to respond positively to efforts to find a peaceful solution through talks between them and the Government of Portugal in the hope that such talks will bring an end to the strife in that Territory and lead towards the orderly exercise of the right of self-determination by the people of Portuguese Timor: 
Strongly deplores the military intervention of the armed forces of Indonesia in Portuguese Timor; 
Calls upon the Government ofIndonesia to desist from further violation of the territorial integrity of Portuguese Timor and to withdraw without delay its armed forces from the Territory in order to enable the people of the Territory freely to exercise their right to self-determination and independence; 
Draws the attention of the Security Council, in conformity with Article 11, paragraph 3, of the Charter, to the critical situation in the Territory of Portuguese Timor and recommends that it take urgent action to protect the territorial integrity of Portuguese Timor and the inalienable right of its people to self-determination: 
Calls upon all States to respect the unity and territorial integrity of Portuguese Timor; 
Requests the Government of Portugal to continue its co-operation with the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and requests the Committee to send a fact-finding mission to the Territory as soon as possible, in consultation with the political parties in Portuguese Timor and the Government of Portugal. 2439th plenary meeting 12 December 1975 
-The Australian Government pursued efforts within the United Nations and initiated a move for a United Nations observer to go into East Timor. On 23 December the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution unanimously requesting the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations to appoint a special representative for East Timor. I ask leave to incorporate in  Hansard  that Security Council resolution. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Resolution  384 (1975)  of 22 December 1975 
The Security Council, 
Having noted the contents of the letter of the Permanent Representative ofPortugal (S/ 11899), 
Having heard the statement of the representatives of Portugal and Indonesia, 
Having heard representatives of the people of East Timor, 
Recognizing the inalienable right of the people of East Timor to self-determination and independence in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General Assembly resolution l514(XV)of14December 1960. 
Noting that General Assembly resolution 3485 (XXX) of 12 December 1975,  inter alia,  requested the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples to send a fact-finding mission to East Timor, 
Gravely concerned at the deterioration of the situation in East Timor, 
Gravely concerned also at the loss of life and conscious of the urgent need to avoid further bloodshed in East Timor. 
Deploring the intervention of the armed forces of Indonesia in East Timor, 
Regretting that the Government of Portugal did not discharge fully its responsibilities as administering Power in the Territory under Chapter XI of the Charter, 
Calls upon all States to respect the territorial integrity of East Timor as well as the inalienable right of its people to self-determination in accordance with General Assembly resolution 1514(XV); 
Calls upon the Government of Indonesia to withdraw without delay all its forces from the Territory: 
Calls upon the Government of Portugal as administering Power to co-operate fully with the United Nations so as  to  enable the people of East Timor to exercise freely their right to self-determination: 
Urges all States and other parties concerned to cooperate fully with the efforts of the United Nations to achieve a peaceful solution to the existing situation and to facilitate the decolonization of the Territory; 
Requests the Secretary-General to send urgently a special representative to East Timor for the purpose of making an on-the-spot assessment of the existing situation and of establishing contact with all the parties in the Territory and all States concerned in order to ensure the implementation of the present resolution; 
Further requests the Secretary-General to follow the implementation of the present resolution and, taking into account the report of his special representative, to submit recommendations to the Security Council as soon as possible; 
Decides to remain seized of the situation. 
Adopted unanimously at the 1869th meeting. 
The Government strongly supported the subsequent Winspeare mission, as it has come to be known, to East Timor and provided support for it. What I think is equally significant or perhaps more significant is that the Australian Government then urged in the United Nations a second visit by Winspeare or by a United Nations representative. That has not occurred and I must say that I think that illustrates in one instance- and there are others- that the United Nations has not done what it should in the case of East Timor. 
It is also worth making the point that the Australian Government has not accorded recognition of any form, either  de facto  or  de jure,  to Indonesian control of East Timor. We certainly have not accepted what has been called an act of self-determination. Both the previous Ford Administration in the United States and the present Carter Administration have accorded  de facto  recognition to Indonesian incorporation of East Timor. According to the reports from the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  AM on  25 March,  Mr Ray  Martin said: 
According to  Mr Oakley.  - 
Who is a Deputy Under-Secretary of State- 
The Carter Administration is simply facing up to the reality of the East Timor problem. No formal recognition of East Timor's integration, but rather an acknowledgment of what  Mr Oakley  called, 'the factual situation in the territory', that U.S. policy goals should not be endangered by this Timor dispute . . . American policy is based on friendly relations with Jakarta and Indonesia is important because of vital natural resources and its strategic position in Asia. 
I think it is worth noting that the Carter Administration in the United States has accorded what seems to me to be very clearly  de facto  recognition of Indonesian incorporation of East Timor- a position with which the Australian Government does not agree. 
The question of providing aid to people in East Timor has been raised on many occasions. There has been some criticism that that aid has not been provided through the International Committee of the Red Cross. This simply was not permitted by Indonesia. It became clear that the only way to provide aid and to assist in alleviating the suffering of the people of East Timor was to do so through the Indonesian Red Cross and to hope- I emphasise 'hope '-that it would get to the people who needed it. This was done only because Indonesia has failed to admit the International Committee of the Red Cross back into East Timor. I believe the Indonesian Government stands indicted for that. Australian aid through the International Committee of the Red Cross initially and subsequently through the Indonesian Red Cross now amounts to several hundreds of thousands of dollars. The basic aim throughout, whether aid has gone through the International Committee of the Red Cross or through the Indonesian Red Cross, has been to get aid to the people in East Timor. 
It is important that the Government has been negotiating with Indonesia for the reunification of families from East Timor. To this stage a good deal of progress has been made. According to some reports there has been agreement in principle that this reunification of families will go ahead and the Indonesian Government has indicated its agreement. I think we have to note that any further strain in relations or perhaps a break in relations with Indonesia could end those negotiations and end hope of reunification of those families. They certainly would not be reunited for a long time if that were to happen. I also would like to refer to the question of refugees.  Mr Dunn's  report states that of approximately 1500 Timorese refugees who are now in Portugal, as many as 95 per cent wish to come to Australia and about one-third are said by  Mr Dunn  to have relatives who came to Australia as refugees in 1975. There has been some controversy over these figures. I do not think the accuracy of the figures is relevant. I do not think it is relevant to the basic issue and that is, that so far as possible we have to do everything we can to ensure that those people who are able can come to Australia. These people have got to be treated as refugees. Most of them, as I understand it, are Portuguese citizens and they are in Portugal. It may be ironic that one considers a citizen in that country to be a refugee. Obviously, this is a unique situation. I think we have to treat these people as refugees. 
The recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence with respect to refugees ought to be implemented urgently. There should be an Australian Refugee Policy Council. There should be an interdepartmental committee that can co-ordinate action and there should be a clearly stated policy on refugees. These people in Portugal ought to be treated as refugees and we ought to treat the matter with urgency and with compassion. 
Australia's capacity to provide aid to East Timor, to assist refugees from East Timor and to reunite families from East Timor unfortunately are not matters entirely under our control. If they were, the solution would be obvious, but they are not. 
I agree that there are reasons for our trying to reconcile the evidence which is now available from different sources. Undoubtedly a great many questions remain unanswered. I do not believe that an inquiry by a committee of this Senate, whether it be a select committee or a standing committee, would obtain the answers. It would certainly express opinions on the many contradictions which already exist and probably more contradictions would arise. But it mightand I fear it probably would- adversely affect some of the aspirations implied or expressed in the proposed terms of reference for a select committee and in the amendment. 
I was one of a group of senators which recently asked the United States  President  to take action on this particular matter. Because of  Mr Carter's  interest in human rights- a strongly expressed interest- we urged him to take up this matter with Indonesia just as the Australian Government has done on numerous occasions. We asked that  President  Carter urge the Indonesians to comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and allow the International Committee of the Red Cross to resume its activities in East Timor. In sending that petition it was my hope that the United States Administration might take some action on this matter along the lines that the Australian Government has taken and, thereby, add weight to those representations. It was my hope that its greater strength as an international 'super power' might result in some action from the Indonesians. 
There is evidence now before an American Congressional Committee which appears to confirm that Australian journalists were killed either by pro-Indonesian or Indonesian forces in East Timor. According to the reports which I have seen, this information was given by an Indonesian sponsored witness. I believe that through most of these accounts relating to journalists from Australia- three of whom were Australian citizens- an element of consistency exists, including the report of  Mr Dunn.  On the basis of evidence of the Indonesian representative in the United States I think we must seek clarification from the Indonesian Government. But I do not believe that a select committee or the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence will obtain that information. Indeed, it may make it more difficult to obtain. The Australian Government must seek more detailed information once again from the Indonesian Government on this matter of very obvious direct concern to Australia and Australian citizens. 
The Indonesian Journalists Association, following action by the Australian Journalists Association, issued a statement on this matter. I wish to make no comment on it but simply read it into the record so that it is there for consideration and for the information of others who are interested. I emphasise that I make no comment on its accuracy or otherwise. It reads: 
The Indonesian Journalists' Association (PWI) suggests that research be conducted into the diary of the late  Mr Greg  Shackleton, one of the five ill-fated Australian journalists who died in East Timor. 
The diary is now in the hands of his family in Australia. 
The diary, which contains authentic reports on the real situation, states the following testimonies: 
Threats of war, mortar bombardment, and fear overwhelmed them. On the other hand, the diary showed their carelessness. The live journalists stayed there despite the Fretilin troops taking position for a war. 
b ) The diary also clearly indicates their taking side with them as suggested in the following notes: 1 1.30 left Balibo, 1 2.35 arrived Maliana ' at Maliana gave message to commandant to send 2 cars back to defend Balibo'. 
In other section, the diary indicates: 
Our troops and . . . ', referring to Fretilin troops. 
All this indicates their unawareness of the real situation and their consciousness to involve themselves and take side with a certain group of the conflicting parties in East Timor. 
It was evident that they were aware of the risks and danger. This was clearly indicated in the diary as stated in the following transcription: 
Several kilometres back we had signed a letter absolving Fretilin of any responsibility for our safety and wellbeing. That was additional to the same kind of letter we signed for the Portuguese Government to get into Dili'. 
As I said at the outset, I believe that everybody who has been involved in this debate now and in the past is anxious to assist the people of East Timor. I think all of us would expect the Indonesian Government to facilitate this action. I can say only that if the Indonesian Government remains intransigent it can hardly expect any Australian government to continue taking a stand based only on the importance of close relations between the 2 countries particularly if irresponsible threats are made against the Australian Embassy, and Australians in Indonesia. 
I think some other factors are worth considering. It is my understanding that Indonesia has taken action against many of its troops guilty of atrocities or looting in East Timor. It is also my understanding that Indonesia is now withdrawing from East Timor at least a large part of its forces. The Indonesian Government, as I understand it, also has allocated a good deal of aid for East Timor. I recognise that none of this excuses what has happened but I think they are factors that ought to be taken into account. 
We are left with the question of what further action we should take. I believe there are good reasons for the inquiries which are proposed either by a select committee or by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. On balance, looking at the possible negative effects, I cannot support either proposal. There is no question that it is essential that the International Committee of the Red Cross be allowed back into East Timor. We ought to be working to finalise plans for assistance to refugees and the re-uniting of families from East Timor. I believe that Australia should now establish a comprehensive aid program, including voluntary agencies, to assist in East Timor. I believe that Indonesia should be ready to facilitate the provision of this sort of aid from Australia to the people of East Timor. 
The sort of inquiries that are proposed, I believe, might only hinder the achievement of these aims. If there is to be an inquiry surely the United Nations should conduct it. It is an international problem and the United Nations, I believe, should accept its responsibilities. It involves Portugual, Indonesia, Timor, Australia and the United States in different ways. The United Nations has been involved to an extent with the 
Winspeare mission which this Government supported. But if the issue is to be settled in any realistic way I believe it should be through the United Nations. Congressman Fraser of the Congressional Committee in the United States which is examining some aspects of this matter said recently: 
I think this hearing may have the value of focussing the attention of the Department of State on the problem. This may lead this new administration, with I think a more sensitive concern about Human Rights, to look into the matter more carefully. This is what I hope might happen. If they do indeed believe there is a continuing problem of some magnitude, rather than get into a confrontation with the Indonesian Government, perhaps in concert with other nations which are important to Indonesia, there might be a sitting down and talking out of this matter with the Indonesian Government and try to come to some sensible resolution of the problem. 
The sort of thing expressed by Congressman Fraser is what the United Nations could do and indeed should do. I believe this is the area from which any initiative for an inquiry at this stage should come. Having said that, it should be clear to the Indonesians that the onus is on them to show some understanding, some compassion and some greater international responsibility. 
I cannot support the proposal for a select committee or a reference to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence at this stage because I do not believe either would achieve certain things which I think are desirable- a proper act of self-determination, Australian aid to East Timor, assistance to refugees and the re-uniting of families. These inquiries will not elicit, I believe, conclusive evidence and indeed they might hinder us in what is, as I have said already, the main aim of everybody involved in this debate, and that is to alleviate the suffering of the people of East Timor. I believe action would best be taken through the United Nations or in continuing bilateral discussions and negotiations. It is therefore with some reservations and some regret that 1 oppose the motion before the Senate and the amendment which has been moved to it. 
I rise to support the Bills before the Senate and refer firstly to the Tertiary Education Commission Bill, the purpose of which is to combine the 3 existing tertiary commissionsthe Universities Commission, the Commission on Advanced Education and the Technical and Further Education Commission. Under the Tertiary Education Commission these will be represented in future by 3 councils of the same names. It is important to note that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said: 
These Councils will preserve much of the essential qualities of the existing commissions while working with and being subject to the co-ordinating functions and authority of the new Tertiary Education Commission. 
I think that that is really the essential point- that the reforms proposed by this legislation will provide better co-ordination of educational policies at the tertiary level, and it implements the Government's election policy on the need to coordinate the work of the educational commissions and in this case particularly the 3 tertiary education commissions. 
Another point of particular interest and significance is that it will more effectively recognise the significance of technical and further education with respect to other aspects of tertiary education. One hopes that this also will be recognised I am sure that it will be recognised- in the work of the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training which is an initiative taken by the Government at a time when such an initiative is clearly necessary. I will refer to that again later. The sort of inquiry to be conducted by the Williams Committee will be of fundamental importance to the future of education in Australia, particularly tertiary education, and will no doubt influence the development of tertiary education in this country for many years. 
There are particular reasons why at this time in our history it is necessary and very important to develop a more effective tertiary education system. We are living in a time of rapidly changing social values. There is a recognised and growing need within the community for continuing education. There is a growing and now widely recognised need for more technical skills. There is a process of changing demand in the employment market which governments have recognised and which we must move to meet. That applies also to the relevance of skills for which people are being trained both in our secondary schools at junior and senior levels and, more importantly, ultimately in tertiary institutions, particularly technical and further education institutions. It is essential that these developments within our society and the implications with respect to tertiary education be recognised and that reforms be implemented urgently to meet these needs. I believe that this Tertiary Education Commission is one such significant reform. 
The significance that the present Government attaches to education has been well enough illustrated by the fact that in 1977 Federal funds for education increased by $47m, an increase of 3 per cent in real money terms, in contrast with a reduction of $ 105m in 1976. As I said, that illustrates the son of priority which the present Government is quite properly giving to education. It is also indicated in the increase in student allowances in accordance with cost of living increases after these allowances had been frozen by the previous government at the June 1974 level. Last year the present Government made very substantial increases in those allowances for students. 
I have already mentioned that the real increase in funds from the Federal Government for education in general this year was 3 per cent. It is of particular significance that the real increase in funds specifically for technical and further education was  Vh  per cent. Again I think that that quite properly recognises and signifies the importance of technical and further education in our society now. Over recent years we have seen that universities, for example, have been relatively well provided for and have experienced rapid development. In more recent years colleges of advanced education have also developed relatively rapidly. But in many respects technical education has been neglected, and this Government is giving technical education greater priority at a time when it is essential. 
Within our community there is a growing recognition of the importance of technical skills. There is a growing recognition that technical skills may be just as important as a university degree. I believe that governments have a role to play in furthering that sort of recognition within the community and encouraging it. This can be done in part through encouraging development and giving the sort of support that the Government is giving to technical and further education.  ( Quorum formed.) 
I know that the sorts of needs to which I have been referring have been recognised by the Minister in a number of public statements. It is worth remembering that this need for technical skills has existed in the community for some years. I refer to the report on manpower policy in 
Australia by the Department of Labor and Immigration in 1 974 in which it was stated: 
Shortages in the supply of tradesmen have been the subject of a number of State and National apprenticeship inquiries since 1949. The most recent national assessment shows that as at October 1973 shortages of adult skilled metal, and electrical tradesmen continued to be experienced in every State. 
That illustrates the sort of situation which has been developing in Australia over the years. As that report pointed out, there have been inquiries into this matter since 1949. Something is being done now about this particular problem, which has been recognised by the Government, specifically in the Australian Capital Territory. There have been a number of changes here to which I would like to refer. The former Technical and Further Education Authority in the Capital Territory in its report for 1975-76 outlined what it referred to as a 'Strategy Plan' for the Australian Capital Territory for the period 1977 to 1 987. In that report the Authority pointed out: 
That TAFE should be available to all members of the community above school leaving age, and be regarded as an acceptable alternative to other streams of post-secondary education. That funds should be provided in like proportion to other areas of education for facilities, buildings and equipment. To satisfy these requirements a TAFE college should be established to serve each major area of the A.C.T., with the opportunity to achieve equal status and to develop its own character and identity through the range of general and other specialised courses provided. 
The Australian Capital Territory population in 1976 was about 200 000. It attracted a proportional TAFE enrolment, according to the report to which I have referred, of 6.8 per cent, which was a significant increase from 5 per cent in 1969. That report suggested that by 1987 the student participation rate might reach a plateau of about 8 per cent. It suggested also that by 1987 the following colleges would be required in the Australian Capital Territory: The Canberra Technical and Further Education College at Reid, with some other additions including one at Belconnen, which is now being completed and others at Lyneham and Fyshwick, which are in existence; a college at Bruce, which is now under construction and a further stage of which is required for completion in the period 1979 to 1984; a college at Woden, with further stages to be completed between 1982 and 1984; a college at Tuggeranong, required by about 1984-85 and, of course, the School of Art, with a permanent location currently under consideration. 
On 10 November last year the Minister for Education announced a number of changes in the administration of technical and further education in the Capital Territory. These refer to the 4 institutions here, for which 4 councils were established. These are councils for the Canberra Technical and Further Education College, the Bruce Technical and Further Education College, the Canberra School of Art and the Canberra School of Music. I think it should be noted that this administrative system will include adult migrant education in the Capital Territory, which is to be integrated with courses at the Canberra and Bruce colleges. These 4 councils which have been established are consistent with the Government's policy of decentralisation of decision making and of community participation in that process of decision making. The overall administration of technical and further education in the Capital Territory lies with the Commonwealth Department of Education. This again follows the Commonwealth Government's assuming wider responsibility for these matters in the Territory. 
A Standing Committee on Further Education has also been established in the Capital Territory by the Minister for Education to co-ordinate activities of the 4 councils to which I have referred and to deal with other aspects of further education here. The Standing Committee will be convened by the Department of Education and will advise the Department on matters relating to further education. It will include, quite properly, the  chairman  of each council and the principal or director of each of the 4 institutions involved. Because co-ordination is so important the Minister has made it clear that further arrangements for close consultations with all involved in this process will be developed. On 10 November the Minister stated the following in relation to this matter: 
For broad planning purposes in Australian Capital Territory education the Department will develop consultation arrangements involving other educational agencies including the Australian National University and the Canberra College of Advanced Education and the non-government schools, as well as the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly, the Department of the Capital Territory and the National Capital Development Commission. 
Again, I think this emphasises the importance which the Government attaches to co-ordination in this very important field of education. The importance which has been attached by the present Government to technical and further education in the Capital Territory has been indicated by the Government's support for the development of technical and further education institutions in the Territory. These new arrangements to which I have just referred for better coordination of tertiary education, with particular emphasis on technical and further education, have been accompanied by expenditure of $ 1 6m on the defined government further education system this year, compared with SI 4m in the previous year. 
There is one matter in particular which I should like to raise with the Minister at this point, that is, that the Tertiary Education Commission Bill raises the question of the role of the Tertiary Education Commission with respect to technical and further education in the Territory. At the moment funding, for example, is handled directly between the Department of Education, in its role with respect to technical and further education, and the Treasury. There is a question as to what role the Tertiary Education Commission, which this Bill seeks to establish, will play in that process in the Territory. I ask the Minister whether perhaps he might comment on this particular point concerning the role that the Tertiary Education Commission might have in this respect. 
Finally, I should like to comment on the Commonwealth Teaching Service Amendment Bill, which the Senate is also considering. As the Minister pointed out in his second reading speech, the Bill makes special long service leave provisions for New South Wales technical teachers who joined the Commonwealth Teaching Service between 3 1 December last year and 1 April this year and who were engaged in full time teaching duties in a technical institution in the Australian Capital Territory. I have discussed this Bill with the A.C.T. Teachers' Federation, which indicated its support. Indeed, it urged that this sort of action should be taken. I support both Bills before the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Carrick)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Can the Minister say approximately what funds are being expended in Australia, from both Government and private sources, on the development of alternative energy sources, particularly (a) solar energy, (b) nuclear energy, (c) ocean wave energy, and (d) geothermal energy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) Does the First Report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry recommend that a national energy policy should be developed and reviewed regularly. 
Will the Minister outline the present position and can he state what action will be taken to implement the recommendation of the Fox Inquiry. 
Will the Minister consult with his Ministerial colleagues with responsibility in relevant areas in implementing this recommendation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) Does the First Report of the Ranger Environmental Inquiry recommend that a program of energy conservation be instituted nationally. 
Will the Minister outline the current program and can he state what action will be taken to implement the recommendation of the Fox Inquiry. 
Will the Minister consult with his Ministerial colleagues with responsibility in relevant areas in implementing this recommendation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 8 March 1 977: 
1 ) Does the First Report of the Ranger Environmental Inquiry recommend that steps should be taken immediately to institute full and energetic programs of research and development into (a) liquid fuels to replace petroleum and (b) energy sources other than fossil fuels and nuclear fission. 
Will the Minister state the present approach and can he state what action will be taken to implement the recommendation of the Fox Inquiry. 
Will the Minister consult with his Ministerial colleagues with responsibility in relevant areas, in implementing this recommendation. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to the recommendations in the report of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, which was tabled in the Senate in December last year. The recommendations to which I refer dealt with the handling of radioactive materials, including radioactive waste in the Australian Capital Territory. It was recommended that the Capital Territory Health Commission proceed immediately with the preparation of an ordinance providing for the control and disposal of radioactive waste material and that the Capital Territory Health Commission take measures to be implemented in an emergency involving radioactive materials. Can the Minister say what action has been taken on these recommendations? 
I rise to support the Australian Development Assistance Agency (Repeal) Bill 1977 which replaces the Agency with the Australian Development Assistance Bureau within the Department of Foreign Affairs. I should like to make a few points in relation to what the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  said. He pointed out that the present Government, when in Opposition, supported the legislation establishing the Australian Development Assistance Agency. That is quite right. It was in fact a valid experiment and a significant innovation which was certainly worth trying. But as I should like to discuss a little later, I think it was an innovation which now, on examination, can be seen to be not necessary.  Senator Wriedt  also suggested that the thrust of the second reading speech of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on this Bill in the other place suggested that the aim of the legislation and, indeed, the aim of the Government's international assistance policies was to ensure that these fit in with the Government's 'foreign policy notions'. I only point out to  Senator Wriedt  that the present Government has provided assistance to the Government of Vietnam for its reconstruction program and it has provided assistance, through the Commonwealth, to Mozambique. I am sure that  Senator Wriedt  would have to agree that that would not necessarily fit in with our general foreign policy notions' but it does fit in with our approach to aid and the fact that aid ought to be directed to people in need, rather than to governments.  Senator Wriedt  claimed also that the Government is attempting to reduce its commitment to aid but 1 think it only needs to be pointed out that in the 1975 Budget, for example, bilateral aid was increased by $20.7m. In the 1976 Budget of the present Government it was increased by $31.9m. In the 1975 Budget of the Labor Government, multilateral aid decreased by $1.4m. Last year, in the first Budget of the present Government, multilateral aid was increased by $ 18.7m. The result was that in the 1975 Budget the total increase in development assistance was $ 19.3m compared with $50.6m in the first Budget of the present Government. I do not think anyone can suggest that those figures indicate that we as a Government are attempting to opt out of our obligations with respect to development assistance to those in need around the world. I think it is also worth commenting that in this debate and in consideration of our development assistance- and anyone else's for that matter- it is a mistake to approach the question of development assistance simply by looking at the statistics. The simplistic obsession with statistics and figures with respect to aid and percentages of gross national product does not provide a valid picture of the relevance, significance and value to the recipients of aid programs. There are certainly many more substantial issues which have to be considered when assessing the value of development assistance but, again, I should like to refer to that later. 
I said in my opening remarks that I think the Development Assistance Agency during its period of operation, did not demonstrate clearly that such a statutory body was a more effective means of handling our development assistance program or of developing policies with respect to development assistance. That agency was under the authority of the Foreign Minister and was certainly very closely related to the Department of Foreign Affairs, if only for the first reason. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  in his second reading speech, pointed out: 
The Bureau is performing all the functions formerly carried out by the Agency. 
The point is that the Bureau will be strengthened by its integration with the Department of Foreign Affairs. Again I would like to say a little more about that and quote in full one part of the second reading speech of the Minister which was quoted by  Senator Wriedt.  It is a fact that the Bureau was established earlier on in the period of this Government. The Minister said: 
Experience over the last 12 months has already shown that the reintegration of the Agency into the Department has had a beneficial effect on the administration of our overseas aid program; a closer relationship between the Bureau and other areas of the Department has developed. Furthermore there is a deeper overall appreciation of the importance of development assistance in Australia's foreign policy. Effective administration of our foreign policy, and indeed the development of the best possible policies, requires that officers concerned with aid should be given opportunities to make an appropriate input into thinking about our foreign relations as well as being fully conscious of the mannerin which those relations bear upon their responsibilities. In other words, there must be close working relations between aid officers and their colleagues of the Department. The new arrangements will facilitate the development of such relationships. 
In establishing a Bureau the Government is concerned to maintain the professional approach to aid administration and the opportunity for career specialisation which was being developed in the Agency. The Bureau will have a very substantial degree of autonomy in relation to financial management of the development assistance program. 
It is clear enough from the Minister's statement but I think it is worth reiterating that development assistance must not be seen as part of our foreign policy, particularly in that policy's political aspects. I think we have to be sure that in formulating our development assistance programs we do not develop them so as to serve our foreign policy objectives. Development assistance is and will remain inextricably linked, and I believe it should be closely co-ordinated with our international relationships. The Government's action in establishing the Bureau and in reintegrating aid administration into the Department of Foreign Affairs will contribute to that. It is significant, as the Minister has pointed out, that the Bureau is not substantially different from the Australian Development Assistance Agency and is carrying out the same functions. I believe this provides an improved arrangement with respect to the administration of development assistance. 
I take the opportunity in this debate to express what I believe ought to be some fundamental principles governing our approach to development assistance. I believe that the first of those is- as it ought to be- that humanitarian considerations are the basic determinant of our decisions with respect to development assistance. I believe that this should be the case despite ideological or political views, though obviously of course one would have to take a different view if there were conflict. I think all governments should recognise that development assistance is for people and not for governments. It may be at times difficult to draw the line in these matters, but that ought to be the principle on which we operate. While we may not like particular governments, if people are suffering or are in need our obligation ought to be clear enough. Secondly, I believe that development assistance must not be to serve our own interests first. It should be to serve the needs of others. Our own interests ought to be a secondary consideration. That of course applies to what I have already said about development assistance not serving the ends of our foreign policy though being for practical reasons closely coordinated with it. 
As far as is possible aid ought always be provided in the form of untied grants. Considerable emphasis should be placed on bilateral aid as has been traditional in Australia's overseas aid programs. In the current year, for example, total bilateral aid is estimated at $339.4m and multilateral aid at $60m. I believe that that sort of emphasis is proper and sensible though we could perhaps consider giving more aid to a number of multilateral organisations. One of the criteria on which that increased assistance ought to be provided, I believe, is that multilateral institutions contain their administrative expenses. Many such international organisations are notorious for the high percentage of funds made available to them which is absorbed in administrative costs. 
The next principle which I believe is important is that aid be relevant to the recipient rather than to the interests of the donor. I will expand on this topic a little later. We ought to re-examine our development assistance programs to assess the extent to which they are relevant to recipients. In this area new concepts such as the use and development of intermediate technology, as Professor Schumacher has called it, and the involvement in small projects particularly at the village or local level in developing countries are of particular significance. There is, of course, a place in development assistance projects for arge scale programs- the building of major roads, dams and important infrastructural projects. I was recently in Thailand and saw some of the work being done by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation in building roads in northern Thailand. That project is being undertaken by a very dedicated and able group of Australians with their families. 
Over many years indeed, and Australia's contribution has been substantial. The Thai authorities indicate quite clearly that this has been of great importance to them and will continue to be so. Those sons of projects obviously have their place in our overall development assistance program. I want to say one thing about both large and small projects to which I nave already referred. They should be closely integrated with existing development programs in the countries concerned so that their value is enhanced and their relevance increased. We should also give particular emphasis to the closely related international problems of food production and population control. I think too much emphasis has been placed on providing emergency food aid to many countries and too little emphasis on providing facilities for such countries to produce food for themselves. The problem of population control is now recognised. The dimensions of the problem in many countries, such as India and Indonesia, are immense. They are areas in which we could perhaps assist further and which ought to be given priority. I think we should also as a matter of principle attempt to ensure that our programs are directed to alleviating the mass unemployment and particularly under-employment in many developing countries in Asia, the Pacific and Africa. I will say something more on that later. These sorts of problems give rise to difficulties arising out of the urban drift, the conditions in which urban fringe dwellers live in many such developing countries and the related problems of urban poverty and degradation. It is these sorts of problems to which our development assistance ought to be particularly directed as a matter of principle. Again, I believe that a fundamental principle of our approach to development assistance ought to be to aim our programs at allowing the recipient countries to achieve self-reliance and selfsustaining growth. Development assistance ought only to be a temporary phenomenon in any particular case. Its aim ought to be to provide for self-reliance and self-sustaining growth. Those 2 criteria ought to be fundamental to all aspects of our development assistance program. 
There are other areas in which we have responsibilities and obligations with respect to providing assistance to countries less well off than ourselves. We have domestic obligations within our own country which are relevant to developing countries. For example, we are under an obligation to conserve energy in our own country, not just to meet our own interests, but also because it is of great importance to hundreds of millions of people in developing countries. I believe that we also have to examine trade policies with respect to developing countries. I shall deal with this aspect in a little more detail later. But this sort of approach has been recognised in 
Australia for many years. In 1966 we introduced preferences for lesser developed countries. In December 1976 we made concessions under the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. Those sons of actions make it clear that we recognise this need and are prepared to do something about it. Another principle I regard as fundamental- I have already referred to it- is that our development assistance program is not part of our international policies although it ought to be integrated effectively with them in administrative and practical terms. 
I have also said-this relates to  Senator Georges'  comment- that development assistance is an inextricable part of our total international relationships and cannot be entirely separated. I agree with  Senator Georges  there. But I have made the fundamental point that it ought not to serve the political ends of our diplomacy. We must also recognise that new factors exist and are emerging and that they are relevant to our approach to development assistance programs.  Senator Wriedt  referred to proposals for a new international economic order. The United Nations has adopted a number of resolutions relevant to those proposals. A number of international conferences are being conducted and negotiations are continuing in pursuit of those proposals. Other issues such as the refugee situation, are relevant to our development assistance programs. I think that this is an area which the Australian Development Assistance Bureau ought to be examining as one of priority to assess where, in terms of development assistance and aid programs, Australia might have a role. 
In nations and societies such as our own in the 19th and 20th centuries there has been a progressive development of understanding that the more affluent have an obligation to assist and contribute to the betterment of those less well off. That process is still occurring but, at the same time, it is now beginning to occur in the international sphere. More affluent nations are now beginning to recognise that they have an obligation and a responsibility for the less affluent nations and the less fortunate people of the world. It may be that that is one of the most significant developments that will occur during our lifetimes. I refer to a recent expression of an eminent Pakistani economist, Mahbub Ul Haq. He said: 
If history is to be our guide, the world may well be on the threshold of a historical turning point ... At the international level, we still have not arrived at that philosophic breakthrough when the development of the poor nations is considered an essential element in the sustained development of the rich nations and when the interests of both rich and poor nations are regarded as complementary and compatible rather than conflicting irreconcilable. And yet we may be nearing that philosophic bridge. 
I agree with him. I hope we are both right. 
I now refer to the relevance of aid in a little more detail. One of the first jobs of the Bureau ought to be to undertake a total reassessment of our aid program. It is something to which the Agency might have given priority. I have already suggested that we ought not to be obsessed with targets. Certainly the provision of 0.7 per cent of gross national product as aid is a reasonable target. But to simply use that target, or to take as the criterion of our aid performance our position on some international aid 'league table', to me is somewhat irrelevant and certainly far too simplistic. It does not take into account the impact, the significance, the role, the relevance and the value of our aid to the recipients. Surely these are the meaningful questions we should be asking, not what percentage of our gross national product we are spending. We should be asking not what is our position on the international league table' but what our aid means to the people who are receiving it. Some of these matters have been examined by Professor Schumacher in a book entitled  Small is Beautiful.  I shall refer to some of the points he makes in that book. He sees the pattern of development based heavily on the use of largescale and increasingly complex technology as a primary cause of continuing world mass poverty in many parts of the world. He considers that the present pattern of industrial development is based on a wasteful use of the world's scarce resources- I agree with him- particularly its rapidly diminishing sources of cheap energy. He suggests that we ought to be developing smaller scale decentralised intermediate technology. He calls for the replacement of the traditional approach to unlimited growth by what he calls the economics of permanence '. He says: 
The economics of permanence implies a profound reorientation of science and technology, which have to open their doors to wisdom and, in fact, have to incorporate wisdom into their very structure. Scientific and technological 'solutions' which poison the environment or degrade the social structure or man himself are of no benefit, no matter how brilliantly conceived or how great their superficial attraction. Ever bigger machines, entailing ever bigger concentrations of economic power and exerting ever greater violence against the environment, do not represent progress: they are a denial of wisdom. 
Arising from that statement Professor Schumacher assesses what he considers to be the inadequacy of the developed nations' aid programs. He believes that the central problems confronting the poor nations are mass unemployment in the rural areas and the resultant tendency of the rural poor to migrate to urban areas and to live in fringe areas in slums and degrading conditions in what is almost universally an unsuccessful search for some form of security and, of course, employment. He then argues that the application of the technologies of developed countries to these situations usually results in what is referred to as a dual economy in which only a small elite benefit and the masses do not. It is that problem that we ought to be examining, with the governments concerned, to see how our aid programs can be made more relevant to solving those problems. There is no point in our suggesting that our aid programs are solving those problems because they are not. Demonstrably they are not solving those problems in Asian countries, for example, and we ought to be reexaming our aid programs to see how they might become more relevant. Obviously it is a matter for the governments concerned but in our approach to those governments we ought to indicate to them that we want to play a part if we can in solving those problems. 
Schumacher suggests that it is essential that these people, particularly in rural areas, achieve some form of employment. He believes that the solution lies in the creation of simple inexpensive industries through the use of intermediate technology, more relevant technology, which ought to be the basis of more relevant aid from countries such as ours. As he puts it: 
The idea of intermediate technology does not imply simply a 'going back' in history to methods now outdated ... it means a genuine forward movement into new territory, where the enormous costs and complications of production methods for the sake of labour saving and job elimination is avoided and technology is made appropriate for labour surplus societies. 
Schumacher is not specific in many cases and often his theories raise as many questions as they answer but I believe that the principles he raises are valid and the means of putting those principles into practice ought to be a first priority for any governments aid program, and I believe they ought to be given priority by the Aid Bureau. I just make the point out of all this that the target in aid really is not what is most important; the relevance of that aid is. 
I have no doubt that some has been misplaced, and I have no doubt that if we assessed our aid we probably could reduce some aid programs and still make them more  effective, not that I am suggesting that we should reduce them. I do not think we should. 
I certainly do not believe we should take them any lower. The question is: How relevant is it? We may find that our aid could be 3 times as effective without being increased if we really examined where it is going and what purpose it is serving. That is my point. Surely the ultimate aim is to best assist those in need. I do not believe we ought to be carried away by the magnitude of our aid because that is not necessarily the most relevant measurement. I certainly do not think we should indulge in selfcongratulation; I do not think any government should do that, nor should any Australian for that matter, about our overseas aid. It ought to be under constant re-examination and I think that sort of self-congratulation simply reflects a narrow-minded, selfish and rather self-interested approach to the whole question. 
Our aid programs are already very substantial. The Budget papers, particularly Budget Paper No. 2 relating to the budgets of various Commonwealth departments, indicate that the allocation put aside for the aid agency, or the Bureau as it will be, when included with that of the Department of Foreign Affairs, is the third largest single item when compared with various departments of the Commonwealth Government. Even when it is not included with the budget of the Department of Foreign Affairs, our aid budget is greater than the budget of 22 Commonwealth departments. I believe that indicates the scale and significance of the program, and perhaps also the potential significance of the amount of money we are putting into aid programs if we could better assess them and make them more relevant to those who receive the aid. I want to refer briefly to some of the main programs. Over the next 5 years Australia has guaranteed to provide $930m in untied grants to Papua New Guinea, $60m over 3 years to countries of the South Pacific and $86m over 3 years to Indonesia. Clearly the Bureau must have the staff to administer what are very large programs and what is a very substantial budget in terms of other Commonwealth departments. Its staff at the moment is 550. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 General Business taking precedence of Government Business after 8 p.m. 

asked the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 23 March 1 977: 
1 ) What action has been taken on the development of solar energy under the United States-Australia Agreement for Scientific and Technical Co-operation. 
) What action is proposed under current planning. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of reports that New Zealand has taken special action to complement its aid program and to provide employment opportunities in the Pacific Islands by establishing an industrial development scheme which aims to encourage New Zealand companies to establish manufacturing enterprises in island nations. 
Are these reports correct. If so, has Australia examined this initiative. 
Is there any proposal, or has consideration been given to any proposal, for Australia to take similar action. 
I ask the Minister for Administrative Services: What progress has been made with proposals to establish a national museum in Canberra? Can the Minister give any indication as to when this project will be commenced? Is the Government treating it as a matter of priority? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
What special facilities are provided by the Minister's Department or Australia Post to assist handicapped people in the use of postal facilities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 March, 1977: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen a statement in the First Annual Report (1976) of the Commissioner for Community Relations that 'the greatest inadequacy in public services in Australia lies in the field of mental health'; if so, is this statement correct. 
) If it is correct, can he give details as to precisely what the greatest inadequacy' refers to. 
What action is being taken to overcome this inadequacy'. 
I present the following petition from 407 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Government employees strenuously oppose the provisions of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill first introduced in the House of Representatives on 8 December 1976. The basis for opposition includes the following reasons: 
1 ) The grounds constituting 'due cause' for termination of services of tenured staff are expanded beyond those already available in existing legislation thereby introducing subjective discretionary powers which are inconsistent with career service expectations and entitlements; 
The Bill relegates to subordinate legislation or administrative direction matters affecting substantive rights of employees including the scale of compensation, the composition and powers of the appellate tribunal, and the criteria upon which services may be terminated; 
Existing rights of reinstatement in tenured employment are abrogated by the Bill; 
) Agreement has not been reached on a number of matters which should have been finalised before any attempt to introduce legislation. These include: an arbitral determination on redundancy arrangements; benefits; procedures. 
As currently drafted the Bill overrides entitlements under Arbitration awards. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should reject passage of any legislation to extend powers of compulsory retirement of Australian Government employees unless and until any variation has been agreed with staff representatives. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The CLERK- A  petition has been lodged for presentation as follows: 
-Can the Minister for Education say what further progress has now been made with proposals to establish a course at tertiary level for conservators of cultural and historical materials? In view of the fact that there is an urgent need for conservators in, for example, many museums and art galleries in Australia, can the Minister give an assurance that priority is being given and will be given to this proposal? 
I have referred very briefly to some of the most substantial of Australia's overseas aid programs and to the fact that the Australian Development Assistance Bureau has a staff of approximately 550. It is worth noting that in 1973-74 the former Australian Development Assistance Agency had approximately the same number of staff when the total overseas development assistance program was $26 lm. It is now $38 lm. This raises the question of whether the Bureau has adequate staff to handle that very large program. It has a larger Budget than 22 Commonwealth departments. This matter needs to be kept under review so that the staffing of the Bureau is adequate to handle this very substantial development assistance program. Let us take as an example the aid program for the South Pacific countries this year, which was intended to be $ 1 5m. My understanding is that now it will be about $ 13m. That raises the question of whether that shortfall, if it occurs, is due to the absorptive capacity, or lack of it, of the countries in the South Pacific with respect to the very substantial amount of aid that we had proposed or whether it is due to the problems that the Bureau may be having with staff. I simply say that this sort of thing needs to be kept under review by any government. It is something that could be taken up by the Estimates committees or, if necessary, subsequently in the Committee of the Whole. 
I have already referred to some of the factors which are now affecting development assistance programs and I point out, with respect to the Bureau and its staffing situation, that it is important that these new factors which relate to development assistance must be carefully co-ordinated with our development assistance programs. If we simply take proposals for a new international economic order they encompass such issues as trade and development of raw materials and primary commodities, tariffs, the international monetary system, financing of development generally, industrialisation, the transfer of technology, the operations of transnational corporations and sovereignty over natural resources. Obviously all these things need to be considered carefully in the context of our foreign policy and of our development assistance policies. They are issues which will also have to be taken into account by the Development Assistance Bureau. 
There are other important issues which also impinge upon our development assistance activities such as the problems of refugees throughout the world and new questions of assistance to Africa which pose some particularly challenging questions for us. Also, as I have mentioned already, trade and the related question of tariffs are of particular importance in this respect. It is well known that developing countries have to improve their export earnings otherwise their already difficult balance of payments positions will worsen and that will mean greater reliance on international loans or other development assistance to finance their development. It is interesting to note that in the first 20 years of major development assistance programs, from 1950 to 1970, the developing countries' share of world trade declined by 35 per cent although their exports increased by an annual average of 6 per cent. This has continued in the period since 1970- that is if we exclude oil exporters. I believe that we ought to exclude the oil exporters because they are enormously wealthy countries although they are developing countries economically speaking and they have a great role to play in providing development assistance to the less affluent nations. There are signs that they are prepared to do so and are beginning to play that important role in development assistance. 
A number of factors have contributed to the decline of the developing countries in world trade. There has been an increased volume of manufactured goods and there have been declining prices for primary commodities. These have affected the developing countries especially. In many developing countries population growth has absorbed the increased production of commodities and that means that they have had less to export. I think it is worth noting that in a paper produced recently by the Department of Foreign Affairs in its  Backgrounder  series the following statement was made referring to some of these difficulties which have arisen because of: 
. a lack of investment in developing countries for food production- caused in part by a dependence (until the early 1970s) on food supplied by developed countries on concessional terms, and also in some countries by domestic investment policies favouring manufacturing sectors. 
I think that there is a great irony in that statement that the provision of food aid to developing countries has retarded the growth of food production in some cases. That sort of shortsighted aid program can do as much harm as good. I do not refer to emergency food aid because obviously that has a different role from the general  role of food aid as referred to in that paper. The paper also refers to the internal policies of developing countries. In that respect they have responsibilities to pursue domestic policies which will provide real development and be less concerned with more grandiose projects which are less relevant to the people concerned. 
The developing countries have argued for and endorsed the concept of the need for fundamental structural change in international commodity marketing patterns. They have endorsed the United Nations Commission on Trade and Development idea of an Integrated Program for Commodities, known as IPC. That refers to international commodities stocking and pricing agreements for 18 commodities traded by developing countries. Fundamental to the IPC program is another proposal for what has been referred to as a Common Fund for finance commodity stocking arrangements and thus to improve the trading position of developing countries.  Senator Wriedt  suggested that the present Government has adopted a negative stand on these proposals, the IPC and the Common Fund. I reject that suggestion and I would like to quote from a letter on this question which I received from the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony).  It says: 
The Fourth Session of UNCTAD, held at Nairobi in May 1976, adopted Resolution 93 (IV) on an Integrated Programme for Commodities of particular interest to developing countries. (A number of these commodities, e.g. bauxite, copper, iron ore, meat and sugar are also major Australian exports.) The Programme provides for a series of meetings on the individual commodities covered in it, to be followed by commodity negotiating conferences which are to be concluded by the end of 1978. The objectives of the Programme include seeking to achieve stable conditions in international commodity trade and avoiding excessive price fluctuations with price levels that are remunerative and just to producers and equitable to consumers. 
As a major commodity producer and exporter, Australia has been advocating the need to try to improve the conditions of international commodity trade and welcomes this concentration of international effort on commodity trade problems. We have participated actively in the discussions to date and will continue to do so. As you are aware, I am about to go to Geneva to lead the Australian Delegation to an important International Sugar Conference. However, it needs to be appreciated that the Integrated Programme is a complex and ambitious project. We have learned from hard experience that it is not easy to make progress in the commodities field. 
The proposal for a Common Fund is a related but somewhat different matter. The main purpose of a Common Fund would be to provide finance for buffer stocks and other possible stocking arrangements for individual products which might be agreed in the context of the Integrated Programme. As is evident from the Nairobi Resolution, buffer stocks and stocking arrangements are only one of the measures that are to be considered in seeking to achieve the objectives of the Integrated Programme. 
At this stage it is far from clear what part buffer stocks or stocking arrangements might play in trying to find solutions to the problems of individual commodities and hence what finance may be needed. Moreover, a number of complex issues important to both developing and developed countries remain to be fully developed and discussed. It would, therefore, be premature for the Government to support the establishment of a common fund or take a financial commitment before all the elements have been considered internationally and firm proposals drawn up. 
It should also be understood that the Nairobi Resolution did not provide for the establishment of a Common Fund. It called for a series of meetings to discuss and elaborate a proposal. This is the work that UNCTAD has been engaged in and was the purpose of the recent Geneva meeting. 
In this context I think it is worth quoting also from a statement on the common fund made on 2 1 April by the Minister for Overseas Trade, in which the Minister said: 
Australia firmly believed that its producers and consumers agreed in principle to establish buffer stocks in a commodity arrangement and such an arrangement could not fail for the want of funds. There was a need for a scheme and a target, where producers and consumers should accept joint responsibility for ensuring the availability of finance. 

 Mr Anthony drew attention to the importance of the present UNCTAD sugar negotiations. He said successful negotiations would give impetus to the UNCTAD idea of an integral program for commodities- including negotiations for a common fund. I think those statements demonstrate that the Government's position is and has been anything but negative on this issue and that, indeed, we are actively involved in the negotiations which are being conducted- and quite rightly so. But it is only proper that those negotiations ought to be approached carefully and that they ought to be completely examined before any decisions are made. That is what is happening now. 
I think the significance of these sorts of issues with respect to development assistance have long been recognised by Australian governments. I have mentioned previously that in 1966 we introduced preferences for less developed countries. In July 1976 the present Government introduced concessions for imports of tropical products from developing countries. In December 1976 we announced new concessions under the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. But it is of great significance also that more than 80 per cent of all imports into Australia from developing countries enter Australia now either preferentially or free of duty. That is a very substantial amount of imports. But the question now is whether we might be able to provide access for other products. That, of course, is one of the questions to which we must address ourselves in the future when considering our contribution to  the growth of the economies of developing countries. All of these new developments require close co-ordination of aid, trade, investment, energy policies and, of course, our political and diplomatic activities around the world. Aid cannot be separated from these other things. I believe that placing the Development Assistance Bureau within the Department of Foreign Affairs will strengthen the Bureau particularly, for example, in interdepartmental dealings. Australia's aid program will thus be strengthened and, I hope, more closely co-ordinated with our overall international policies. 
I think that everybody who is involved in this issue, whether in the private sector, voluntary organisations or the Government, has to recognise that aid is not the answer to development; it is only a small part of the answer. Many other policies or actions can be more important. Indeed, as I have mentioned already, some aid can be detrimental to real development needs. This may become apparent only in retrospect, but certainly it can be so. I refer to the impact in some cases of long term food aid which in fact had a detrimental effect on the food production policies of some countries. 
I should like to refer to the Development Assistance Advisory Board which was established at the same time as the Development Assistance Agency and which will be abolished by this repeal Bill. I believe that the Development Assistance Advisory Board provided for important community participation and community contribution in the area of development assistance. I think it is important that aid should be a national effort, recognised as such, in which the community as a whole is involved. Indeed, it should be seen as a community responsibility. The Minister said in his second reading speech that he is giving thought to its'- that is, the Advisory Board's- 'replacement by an informal advisory mechanism'. There is a need to establish that sort of advisory mechanism. I believe that it must be advisory and that its membership should be drawn from the community. It ought thus to supplement the work of those people who are employed full time in the Development Assistance Bureau. But I think the emphasis should be on its advisory role and that its membership should be drawn from the community. 
Finally, I would simply like to say that I think this proposal to abolish the Agency and to establish a bureau within the Department of Foreign Affairs makes sense in current circumstances. But at the same time I think we and the Bureau should take the opportunity to reassess totally Australia's development assistance program. I think we have a reasonable record in terms of the relevance of our aid, its impact in developing countries, the extent to which it has been integrated with development programs and the impact that it has made at the village or local level. In other words, in many cases- I think in most cases- our aid has reached the people. It has been given mostly in the form of grants. We are proceeding now to untie some aid which in the past has been tied and the importance of trade as well as aid has been well recognised by Australian governments. 
As I said before, I do not think that this gives us any reason whatever to be complacent about our development assistance program. It does not mean we can overlook our obligations as an affluent nation to those less well off. It does not mean we can avoid our responsibilities in this respect. We do need to reassess our development assistance because of some of the complexities that are emerging now in international relations and because of some of the new issues which are emerging which relate to development assistance and to the general question of development around the world. There are new problems, new needs and, indeed, a lot of new countries. There are new technologies that can be applied, in some of which we have special expertise. But I think we have to see also that aid is put to the use for which it is intended. The donor country has a responsibility in that respect to see that the aid serves those who are in need and to whom the aid is directed. If our aid does those things and if it serves the principles which I outlined when I spoke previously on this matter, it will in fact be serving our own interests because it will be providing for development and ultimately, we hope, for stability, particularly in new countries in a world where we can only hope that equality, partly through our efforts, might eventually come to have some real meaning. 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the recent earthquake that affected the Solomon Islands. In view of the critical stage of the development, both political and economic, of the Solomon Islands, what assistance has the Government provided to the people of the Solomon Islands? What assistance is proposed? 
1977, asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What action or research is being undertaken by the Minister's Department or the Telecommunications Commission to produce special facilities, including specially designed telephones, for handicapped persons. 
What special assistance is provided to the handicapped in Australia by way of telephone or telecommunications facilities or related services. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977. 
1 ) Has the Minister seen reports that a team of New Zealand parliamentarians, industrialists and trade unionists visited Pacific Island countries in August 1976, and that a Pacific Affairs Co-ordinating Committee made up of departmental officials was reportedly established to recommend steps to strengthen New Zealand's relations with the Pacific Island countries. 
) Has Australia examined this initiative. 
Is there any proposal for Australia to take similar action to strengthen relations in the South Pacific. If not, will the Government consider such a proposal. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations concerning the use, and problems in the use, as I understand it, by handicapped persons, particularly the visually handicapped, of Commonwealth hostels. I refer especially to visually handicapped persons who wish to use the hostels but face problems because of inadequate facilities for handicapped people in the hostels. Can the Minister say whether facilities are provided, or will be made available in Commonwealth hostels, appropriate for use by the handicapped, especially the visually handicapped? Can the Minister also say whether the small number of handicapped persons who are not public servants and therefore, as I understand it, are unable to use these hostels at all but who wish to do so, might be permitted to do so where facilities are provided in the future? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, refers to the fact that the Minister for the Capital Territory recently referred to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly a proposed Air Pollution (Stationary Sources) Ordinance to deal in particular with industrial sources of air pollution. In this context can the Minister say whether the Minister for the Capital Territory has considered the recommendation of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, made in its report on Canberra City Wastes which was tabled in the Senate last December, that controls on domestic incineration should be dealt with in such legislation? If consideration has been given to that recommendation, can the Minister indicate why it is not dealt with in the proposed legislation? If it has not been considered, can the Minister say why and indicate when that will be done? 
It is perhaps worth recalling at this stage of the debate that we are examining 2 Bills which provide for additional appropriations for the 1 976-77 financial year of $326m. It is also perhaps worth comparing this with the additional appropriations for 1975-76 of $506m and the additional appropriations for 1 974-75 of $l,241m. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has confirmed that outlays in 1976-77 'will not vary significantly from the figure of $24,32 1 m that was contained in the last Commonwealth Budget'. To that extent the additional appropriations reflect the Government's success in restraining its own expenditure as a fundamental aspect of its economic policies. I note particularly that the additional appropriations include almost $llm for the Department of the Capital Territory and the National Capital Development Commission. Most of that is in fact additional estimates for the important development programs in the Capital Territory of the NCDC and it amounts to a significant part of the total of $326m provided for in the 2 Appropriation Bills before the Senate. 
It is in this context of the development of the Capital Territory and the very important role of the Commonwealth Government expenditure and policies in the Capital Territory that I would like to take the opportunity of this debate to discuss the questions of small business enterprise in the Capital Territory. It is well known that small business employs approximately 40 per cent of the Australian work force. It is a vital source of initiative and enterprise within the private sector and though definitions can vary there are at least 200 000 small businesses in Australia. I think it is also important to note in the White Paper that was presented to the Senate tonight by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  a statement in respect of the importance of small business, and I will quote from that report. 
Small business occupies a significant place in the structure of Australian industry. Denning a small firm as an enterprise which employs less than one hundred people, there were about 30 400 small manufacturing firms in 1968-69, the latest year for which data are available. They accounted for 94 per cent of the total number of firms engaged in manufacturing, 32 per cent of total employment and 26 per cent of value adding by manufacturing. Small businesses also make up important segments of other sectors of the economy, particularly in the commerce area. 
The Government indicated during the last election campaign and has confirmed since its intention of encouraging the private sector in Canberra, in the Capital Territory and the adjacent region to provide balance for the existing dominance of the public sector in this national capital. It is recognised generally that the overall economic situation is fundamental to the future of small business and that general economic recovery will of course be beneficial to small businesses. But there are some special measures which have been taken by the Government to encourage and to support small business within  the community in recognition of its very important role in the private sector. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  some factual notes which have been prepared by the Treasurer on these measures. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

THE INVESTMENT ALLOWANCE SCHEME 
During the first phase of its operations, the scheme provides a special income tax deduction of 40 per cent of the capital cost of eligible new plant and certain eligible improvements erected on primary production land. In its second phase, plant etc. acquired or constructed after 30 June 1978 will attract a special deduction at an investment allowance rate of 20 per cent. The investment allowance deduction is available in addition to taxation deductions allowable by way of depreciation for the full cost of the plant. 
THE TSVA SCHEME 
This provides a special deduction in respect of most classes of trading stock, including livestock. The 1976-77 deduction is ascertained by applying to the taxation value of trading stock on hand at the beginning of the year of income- not being a value higher than the cost of the stock- one-half of the percentage increase in the goods component of the CPI measured from the June quarter of 1976 to the June quarter of 1977. 
UNDISTRIBUTED INCOME TAX 
With the needs of small businesses particularly in mind, the proportion of after-tax business income that a private company may retain free of undistributed income tax has been increased from 50 per cent to 60 per cent. 
INCOME EQUALIZATION DEPOSITS 
As a means of avoiding any disadvantageous tax consequences in respect of fluctuating incomes of primary producers, this scheme provides for the allowance of special income tax deductions for deposits lodged with the Commissioner of Taxation and for the inclusion in assessable income of proceeds received on withdrawal of deposits. 
AVERAGING SYSTEM APPLYING TO PRIMARY PRODUCERS 
This system has recently been modified so as to exclude from the calculations of average income (used for rating purposes) any amount by which the taxable income of any year within the averaging period exceeds $16,000. The modified average system has the effect of lowering the amount of personal income tax payable by primary producers in cases to which the amendment is directed. 
PERSONAL INCOME TAX INDEXATION 
Provision has been made for the general rates of income tax, the general concessional rebate, sole parent rebate and rebates for maintenance of eligible dependants to be automatically indexed each year by reference to movements in the Consumer Price Index. The indexation percentage for 1976-77 purposes was 13 per cent. The changes in the rate scales as a result of this are as follows: 

<graphic href="073232197705240_73_0.jpg"></graphic>

This shows that indexation avoids the situation where inflationary increases push people into higher tax brackets. For example, a person with a taxable income of $10,000 in 1975- 76 stays in the same tax bracket in 1976-77 if his 1976- 77 income is $11,300. 
The increases in rebates for 1976-77 over 1975-76 are as follows: 

<graphic href="073232197705240_73_1.jpg"></graphic>

HOW THE CONCESSIONS ADD TO SMALL BUSINESS PROFITS: EXAMPLES 
The level of tax savings and benefits that could accrue to private companies and primary producers as a result of these taxation initiatives is indicated in examples set out in Annexures A and B. 
The level of tax savings and benefits actually derived by small businesses would, of course, depend on the particular circumstances (e.g. the level of investment in plant eligible for the investment allowance, the value of opening stocks, the extent to which the primary producer invests in income equalization deposits and so on) and could therefore be significantly greater than that shown in the examples used. 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">Examples showing tax savings accruing to SMALL COMPANIES and their SHAREHOLDERS under the Government's TSVA and Investment Allowance schemes, the increased retention allowance for private companies and indexation of personal income tax rates. 

<graphic href="073232197705240_73_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="073232197705240_74_6.jpg"></graphic>

<para pgwide="yes">Examples showing tax savings accruing to PRIMARY PRODUCERS under the Government's TSVA, Investment Allowance, Income Equalization Deposits and modified averaging schemes and indexation of personal income tax rates. 

<graphic href="073232197705240_74_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="073232197705240_75_8.jpg"></graphic>

-The national economic policies pursued by the Government, as I have already mentioned, and the specific measures which I have just referred to are directly relevant to small business in the Capital Territory. It also has to be noted that government restraint has, as it always has had, a particular impact in the Territory because of the importance of the public sector here and because of the importance of the role of the Commonwealth Government. This is one reason why we emphatically want to balance the economy here as between the public and the private sectors. This is a significant and for the most part new initiative in developing the national capital of Australia and diversifying and strengthening its economy in the process. It also emphasises the important role of the Commonwealth Government in the Territory. There are difficulties for small business which are well recognised by everybody and there are a number of measures which I think could be considered. Indeed some of these are referred to in the report which the Minister for Industry and Commerce tabled tonight and I will refer to them in a moment. 
Certainly one of the most important questions is the finance available to small business in the community in current circumstances. I think there is scope, for example, for the Government to encourage financial institutions to make loan funds more readily available to small business and it is worth considering the possibility of loan guarantees as a means of achieving this end. Many other countries have shown the important stimulatory role of government in encouraging small business and these are the sorts of measures that might be considered in that context. Again I would refer to the White Paper on Manufacturing Industry which was tabled this evening by the Minister for Industry and Commerce. On page 62 of that White Paper there is the following statement: 
Many small businessmen claim that the sources of finance available to them are inadequate, especially in the area of development finance for the more recently established, faster growing firms. In co-operation with the States and with the financial institutions, the Government will study various means of filling any relevant gaps in existing credit facilities. 
That of course is the sort of measure to which I was just referring, and I think it is certainly one matter worthy of urgent consideration to support small business in its important role within the economy. Some action to this end has been taken of course by the establishment within the Department of Industry and Commerce of a Small Business Branch, but there are other measures which I think are worthy of consideration also. For example, it seems that one of the problems facing small business is the question of the monthly payment of sales tax. This also restricts the capital flow of small business particularly at a time when some businesses are having to extend credit facilities beyond the general limits. It does present particular problems to small business. It seems to me that it might be worth considering some expansion of this provision for payment of sales tax after a month, perhaps to quarterly payments or on a 60-day basis which would reflect the sort of provision normally made to creditors, for example, by small businesses. 
In the Capital Territory obviously these sorts of measures would in themselves be important. But there are some other particular problems and some particular measures which I think might be considered in the special situation of the Capital Territory. For example, we might usefully have here a special body to give guidance, encouragement and assistance to small business in the way that the Small Business Branch does through the Department of Industry and Commerce. But in the States they all have their own special agencies for this as well as having recourse to the Commonwealth. In the Capital Territory we do not have that State tier of advice and assistance available to small business and this would seem to be particularly important if some form of loan guarantee system were introduced, or for that matter considered. 
I think it is also again worth referring to the White Paper presented tonight and its comments on small business. In this context I refer to the relationship between the Commonwealth and State governments, which is so important in many respects to small business, but which is lacking in the Capital Territory. I quote again from the White Paper: 
The joint Commonwealth/State Small Business arrangements will be continued with a view to pooling resources and minimising duplication of effort. As part of this program a small business unit has been included in the Department of Industry and Commerce, and where necessary, the States have established small business units or agencies within their government machinery. 
Research in Australia and overseas has shown that programs intended to raise the level of managerial skill contribute importantly to the continued success of small enterprises. Counselling, training courses and seminars will be developed in co-operation with the States and in Colleges of Advanced Education and Adult Education courses. 
Research into longer run economic issues of relevance to the small business sector will be conducted by the Bureau of Industry and Economics. Publications of interest will be continued and expanded, and a catalogue of information and advice available from the Commonwealth and States is being compiled. 
It is of some interest that that statement does not refer to the Territories. I hope that in such arrangements in the future the Territories will be taken into account. I reiterate my suggestion that perhaps we need some sort of special agency, such as the States have established in cooperation with the Commonwealth, to assist small business and provide incentives for small business. 
At the moment it is an objective of the Government- and a good deal of action has been taken by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)-  to encourage the establishment of new industries in the Capital Territory. But, again, there are the same sorts of problems to which I have just referred because of the lack of State-type incentives in the Capital Territory. The Minister has established an Industry Development Group within the Department of the Capital Territory. But it would seem to me that we need or we ought at least to be examining some form of further incentives to promote or to encourage small business and new industries to set up in the Capital Territory and also to encourage the development of existing industries and small businesses. Of course, in these areas we have recourse to the Commonwealth machinery which has been established such as the Commonwealth Development Bank. But once again, that State tier of assistance, incentives, machinery and organisation is lacking. At times this poses some problems for the sort of development which we are seeking now to encourage in the Capital Territory. I hope that that will be looked at carefully and in the near future. 
I add only that our very close neighbour, Queanbeyan, has the benefits of the sorts of incentives offered by the New South Wales Government. We in the Capital Territory are very pleased to see Queanbeyan grow and attract industry because we benefit from that also. There has however been a good deal of success in the Capital Territory. As I understand it, since the establishment of the Industry Development Group about $20m of new investment has been attracted and will provide eventually for about 1000 new jobs in the Capital Territory. I think that is a very encouraging start. 
All of this is simply to say that small business is, in fact, the basis of the private sector and in many respects Commonwealth Government initiative is a fundamental element in encouraging small business, but particularly so in the Capital Territory. Many actions have been taken, both nationally and locally, to encourage new industry and the development of existing small business in the Territory. But there is, I think, at this stage a need to consider other measures to sustain and to boost existing small businesses in the Territory and to encourage the establishment of further small businesses and new industries in the Capital Territory. 
I bring up the report of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory entitled  Proposals for Variations of the Plan of Lay-out of the City of Canberra and its Environs,  63 rd series. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a brief statement in relation to the report. 
I present the following petition from 2,343 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Australian Government employees strenuously oppose the provisions of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill first introduced in the House of Representatives on 8 December 1976. The basis for opposition includes the following reasons: 
1 ) The grounds constituting 'due cause' for termination of services of tenured staff are expanded beyond those already available in existing legislation thereby introducing subjective discretionary powers which are inconsistent with career service expectations and entitlements. 
The Bill relegates to subordinate legislation or administration direction matters affecting substantive rights of employees including the scale of compensation, the composition and powers of the appellate tribunal and the criteria upon which services may be terminated. 
Existing rights of reinstatement in tenured employment are abrogated by the Bill. 
Agreement has not been reached on a number of matters which should have been finalised before any attempt to introduce legislation. These include: an arbitral determination on redundancy arrangements; benefits; procedures. 
As currently drafted the Bill overrides entitlements under Arbitration awards. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should reject passage of any legislation to extend powers of compulsory retirement of Australian Government employees unless and until any variation has been agreed with staff representatives. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs indicate what progress has been made towards reopening the Australian Embassy in Cambodia, which is now known as Kampuchea? Is the Minister able to give any indication of the accuracy or otherwise of allegations of atrocities and mass killings by the Government of Cambodia? Have any representations been made to the Cambodian Government by Australia on these matters? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. It is in some way related to the question just asked. I refer to reports in a news sheet issued by the Indonesian Embassy in Canberra and reporting that Indonesia has agreed to an Australian immigration team visiting East Timor to contact East Timorese who may wish to be reunited with members of their family now living in Australia. Can the Minister say whether the report is accurate? In particular, what action currently is being taken along these lines? Has the Minister seen in that report reference to Australian agreement on an Indonesian team being sent to Australia to meet with Timorese refugees and to assess whether they wish to return to East Timor to be reunited with their families? Can the Minister indicate whether that report is correct? What action has been taken on it? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to correspondence with the Minister concerning handicapped children's allowance and particularly to a letter which I received from the Minister on 5 October 1 976, which stated: 
I am aware that some low income families are seriously disadvantaged by the additional expenses which they incur because they have a child who has a disability but who is not handicapped to the extent necessary to qualify for handicapped child's allowance . . . I am concerned at this situation and will certainly keep in mind your representations when this matter is discussed by the Government in the future. 
Can the Minister say whether this matter has been considered further and what action is proposed or might be taken to overcome the inequity which the Minister has rightly discerned? Given the time of year, will the Minister give an assurance that action will be considered in the Budget context? 

 - Mr Chairman, I seek your advice. I was out of the chamber unavoidably. Is it appropriate for me at this stage to refer to the issue raised by  Senator Douglas  McClelland concerning the conservation of cultural materials, or have we gone beyond that? 
-Thank you. I know, because I heard part of what  Senator Douglas  McClelland said, that he had dealt with some aspects of this matter and I do not want to deal with it at length. I would simply like to take the opportunity again to emphasise the need for the conservation of cultural materials. It is a matter of some significance here in the Capital Territory because of the location here of the Australian War Memorial, the National Library and the Australian Archives and because eventually we will have the National Museum. 
The Canberra College of Advanced Education has taken up this matter and I have had a letter from the principal of the College stating the importance of a course for conservators of cultural materials in Australia to assist in overcoming the lack of such trained people. I seek leave to incorporate the text of the letter in  Hansard  so that it is on the record because it does have some valuable information in it. 

 The document read as follows- 

Dear  Senator Knight, 
It has been brought to my notice that you have raised in the Senate the question of the training of conservators in Australia. I have not yet been able to get to Hansard to see what, if any, reply you have received from the Government to your inquiry but it has been suggested to me that I should send to you a copy of a report which I prepared recently for the Canberra College of Advanced Education Council after a survey of facilities overseas. This survey indicated that it appeared viable to promote some training on a limited scale in Australia at relatively short notice and at low cost. 
The College Council became involved in this matter when the report of the Museums Inquiry recommended that training should be introduced and that the most appropriate centre, in view of the presence of suitable national collections here, would be the Canberra College of Advanced Education. As you will see from the report, training overseas is strictly limited because, although there is important work to be done in many fields of conservation, there are not jobs for many people in it and a very special kind of student has to be attracted into these courses. The United States, for instance, is graduating only thirty people a year and the average for a country such as Australia would be about ten a year. 
The present situation with these proposals is that the College has applied to the Minister for Education and the Commission on Advanced Education for leave to introduce the course and is seeking supplementary funding to enable the College to proceed without eroding our capacity to carry on with our existing regular programmes of work in other fields. Any support which you can give us in obtaining the necessary funds to introduce these important courses will be very welcome. 
We are convinced that there is a very urgent need to do something in Australia in this field. At the War Museum, for instance, large quantities of important paintings, artifacts and papers are in a sad state of deterioration; at the National Library I am told over 60 000 books are now unusable because of a lack of an adequate facility to restore them and in the National Archives all paper produced in this country after 1 850 is open to damage due to biological actions and acidity. There are other collections housed in Canberra and, of course, many others in the States equally at risk. Virtually nothing is being done to conserve these valuable collections due to a lack of trained staff. 
-I would simply like to point out to the Committee that  Dr Richardson,  the principal of the Canberra College of Advanced Education, made a trip overseas to examine this question. On his return he produced a report for the Council of the College on training for conservators overseas and on the feasibility of introducing courses for conservators at the College. I point out that in his letter he said that the National Library, as far as he is aware, has over 60 000 books which are now unusable because a lack of an adequate facility to restore them; and in the Australian Archives all paper produced in this country after 1850 is open to damage due to biological action and acidity. I think they are issues of real concern in terms of preserving our national heritage. While the need for conservators obviously is very real and an immediate one I think it is a limited need and the whole question does need to be looked at very carefully. I would think that there is probably a need for not more than one such course in the country, though that of course in itself needs examination. I understand that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has been approached about the possibility of establishing such a course in Australia. I would simply like to say that I hope all Ministers including the Minister for Administrative Services- and I know he has already done so- will give this matter very serious consideration. 
I take the opportunity tonight to speak of a man for whom I had great respect and admiration. I refer to Allan Barnes, who was Deputy Editor of the Melbourne  Age,  and who died on 25 May in Sydney. I knew Allan Barnes as a very distinguished journalist who had worked for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, various newspapers and radio and television stations. He spent 10 years with the  Daily Telegraph  in Sydney before joining the  Age.  I got to know him for his work particularly after I came to work at Parliament House for the first time about 4 years ago. Allan Barnes was closely associated with Parliament House. He was a prominent member of the Press Gallery and a respected reporter of political proceedings in the national Parliament. I knew him as a man of sensitivity and the greatest integrity. He was a journalist who was thorough and objective. He had a great talent as an incisive writer. This morning the  Canberra Times  recorded a tribute to Allan Barnes. I quote a small part of it: 
During his years in Canberra he earned a reputation as one of Australia's best informed and most impartial political commentators, travelling widely in Australian and abroad with political leaders. 
Those qualities were recognised in his recent appointment as  Deputy  Editor of the Melbourne Age.  His  death is a loss to this Parliament and to Australian journalism. It is also worth recording on this occasion the remarks of  Mr Ranald  Macdonald, who is Managing Director of David Syme and Co. Ltd, which publishes the  Age.  He said: 

 Mr Barnes had been one of the most outstanding journalists to work for the  Age  in its 123-year history.  Mr Barnes'  death, which came after a long and courageous struggle against illness, was a great loss to the  Age  and to journalism. During his distinguished career with the  Age,  Allan Barnes was a model of integrity and professionalism. His contribution to this newspaper was enormous. 
I know I speak for a number of my colleagues in the Senate who have indicated that they share the views I have expressed about Allan Barnes and the views to which I have just referred expressed by  Mr Macdonald.  I extend my sympathy and the sympathy of all those here to his family, who bear the greatest burden and sorrow at his loss. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to a statement made in the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  Four Corners  on 30 April this year by a Canadian priest who recently had been expelled from Vietnam. He said: 
. the northerners did not fight the war to unify the country, but to conquer a colony. And South Vietnam now is being exploited. Everything is being pulled out of it for the north. They're reducing the economy. They're killing the economy really - 
Can the Minister say, from information available to the Government, whether this statement is accurate? Can he say whether Australian aid provided, as I understand it, for the reconstruction of Vietnam is being used for that purpose, particularly in the southern areas? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity. A report which appeared in last Sunday's  Sun Herald  of 29 May referred to a process which has reportedly been developed by 3 Australians to reprocess used tyres. The report states: 
The low-cost, pollution-free process, separates the rubber in the old tyres from the steel and fibre. It has created little interest with large Australian companies but has been welcomed by overseas nations. 
Cost of producing the synthetic rubber would be about half the current price for similar products. 
In view of the fact that this matter does seem to have aroused little interest in Australia but a good deal of interest in Japan I ask the Minister whether the Government is aware of this report and of what appears to be an important new development in the recycling of a significant resource? Will the Government examine whether the process might be put to use in Australia? Is there some way in which the 
Government might co-operate and encourage this process being further developed? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, is related in part to a recent recommendation by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory that the planning of future buildings in the Australian Capital Territory in which waste oil would be produced should incorporate storage facilities for that waste oil, and that studies should be undertaken on the question of whether it would be viable or necessary to establish, either in the Australian Capital Territory or in the adjacent region of New South Wales, a processing plant for waste oil generated in the area. This recommendation was made in view of the fact that about 1.5 million litres of waste oil are produced in the Australian Capital Territory each year. In view of recent reports that Gulf Oil of the United States of America will assist an Australian company, Oil Processors Ltd, to establish recycling refineries in Melbourne and Sydney, will the Minister examine this matter to assess whether a regional recycling plant is necessary or whether further measures might be taken so that all waste oil produced in the Australian Capital Territory is made available for reprocessing in Melbourne or Sydney as this would be an important contribution to energy conservation in Australia? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the international Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which, I understand, Australia has signed but not yet ratified. As this important international covenant is essential to the Human Rights Commission Bill and as it expresses fundamental civil and political rights, including the right to equality in voting and representation, can the Minister say whether the covenant will be ratified in the near future? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Will the Attorney-General list the international conventions, treaties, agreements or other such arrangements which have been implemented in whole or in part in Australian law through Federal legislation since 1970. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 27 May 1977: 
Can the Minister list the treaties, conventions, agreements, and other bilateral arrangements, which have been formally established between Australia and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics with the dates on which each came into force. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
Have any reductions been made since 13 December 1975 in allowances paid to Commonwealth public servants or other Commonwealth employees engaged on long term overseas postings with the Commonwealth; if so, at what Australian overseas posts have such reductions been made. 
What was the extent of the reductions in each case. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory indicate when the telecommunications tower on Black Mountain will be completed? Can he outline what action will be taken to improve access for tourists and for those who will work in the area? In particular, will extensive road works be required, and will parking facilities be adequate for the anticipated flow of tourists and for those working in the telecommunications tower? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 May 1977: 
With reference to the Defence Report 1976 in which it is stated that the 'main areas' in which Australian Defence Force elements have been deployed overseas during the year are Malaysia, Singapore and Papua New Guinea (a) what units and numbers were involved in each of these 3 cases and for what period and (b) in which other areas overseas were elements of the Australian Defence Force deployed during 1976. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
1 ) With reference to the answer provided by the Minister for the Capital Territory to question on notice No. 1211, can the Minister indicate the extent to which the Australian Capital Territory and the national capital is publicised and promoted internationally as a tourist centre by the Australian Tourist Commission. 
How is such publicity organised, promoted and administered by the Commission. 
What form does such material and promotion take. 
I present the following petition from 318 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
Children's libraries are needed to assist with the stimulation of a child 's intellectual development. 
Reduction of public expenditure should not be at the expense of the educational development of children. 
Closing of any established library is a retrograde step and contrary to the findings of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries. 
That the purported decline in use of existing children's libraries at O'Connor, Lyneham, Narrabundah and Red Hill can be directly related to: 
) the reduction in hours of service; 
the unsuitability of such hours for school children and working parents; and 
the adoption of policies which discourage or fail to stimulate increased usage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate ensure that: 
The existing Children's Libraries at O'Connor, Lyneham, Narrabundah and Red Hill remain open. 
That existing children's library facilities be at least maintained, preferably extended by more reasonable hours, more sensibly related to use. 
That rather than depriving the public of existing children's libraries, similar libraries be built in all suburban shopping areas. 
That reduced expenditure and staff cuts by the National Library Service should not be at the expense of educational facilities for our children. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 50 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned members of the Australian Society of Archivists and citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, contrary to the accepted principle that the primary duty of an archival institution is to look to the physical and moral defence of archives in its care, the Australian Government has so neglected to care for its archives in the Australian Capital Territory that they are in considerable physical danger. 
And that it is a matter for national concern that unique records documenting the history of Australia and Australians are, in their present accommodation in the Australian Capital Territory, under constant threat of destruction. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That construction of a proper archives repository at Mitchell in the Australian Capital Territory be commenced without further delay, to prevent, as far as possible, further deterioration of archives at present housed in sub-standard accommodation, and 
That funds be made available and planning commence immediately for the construction of a prestige national archives building within the national area. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Science: Is it true that the first Fox report on uranium stated that 'all reasonable practical steps should be taken to limit reliance on nuclear energy'? Can the Minister indicate whether action is being taken on this recommendation? Can he state what provisions have been made in the Budget brought down last night to limit reliance on nuclear energy and to develop other energy sources? Specifically, can he indicate what action the Government will take to promote research and development of solar energy in Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27  May  1977: 
1 ) Has the- Minister seen an article in  Triad No. 2  on 'The future of naval shipbuilding' by Commodore G. A. Bennett, General Manager, HMA Naval Dockyard, Williamstown. 
Has the Minister seen a statement in that paper that 'it is concluded that a naval shipbuilding capability in Australia is necessary and it must be provided in a specialised naval shipbuilding yard. If this naval shipbuilding activity is to be efficiently carried out there must be a continuity of program with identicality between ships '. 
Can the Minister outline (a) what naval shipbuilding facilities presently exist in Australia; (b) what action is being taken to improve and expand those facilities; and (c) whether the criteria as to efficiency mentioned by Commodore Bennett, that is continuity of programs and identicality between ships, are being implemented in present shipbuilding activities. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Construction. I refer to suggestions that fire prevention, fire fighting and fire escape facilities for the Black Mountain Telecommunications Tower might be inadequate. Can the Minister say whether the facilities are considered adequate? Can he give details of the fire prevention and escape facilities which are provided? What investigations have been undertaken to assess whether these will be sufficient, given the number of people who will work in the tower and the number of tourists who are expected to visit it? 
I think it is worth emphasising again that this Bill is aimed at a small number of irresponsible unionists and not, by any means, at all Commonwealth employees. That certainly is not the intention. In his second reading speech, the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  said that the Government:   . . recognises that the very great majority of government employees and their unions have acted, and do act, responsibly. Indeed, the legislation would not have been necessary but for the actions of a minority. 
The Government does not seek confrontation. An irresponsible union minority is causing confrontation with the Government and with the people of Australia. It is that confrontation that we, as a nation, cannot afford. Those responsible for it know that the impact of that confrontation will damage this country and, for some, that is no doubt their intention. 
The Minister also pointed out that in recent years the Australian people have been subjected to great inconvenience and hardship on many occasions through industrial action by some government employees and their union leaders. I am well aware in Canberra- I was formerly a public servant myself- of criticism and very often prejudice, concerning public sector employees in Australia. Often that criticism and that prejudice are the result of actions caused by a militant and often irresponsible minority. This Bill aims to give the Government powers to prevent such action by its own employees. I have stated on other occasions that any legislation which affects in a substantive manner the terms and conditions of employment of public servants- such as the early retirement legislation that has been presented in this chamber in the past- should incorporate appeal procedures to safeguard the rights of public servants and other Commonwealth employees. I maintain that principle. 
However, in relation to the Bill currently before the Senate, I want to make a number of points. The legislation obviously is of great importance in immediate circumstances- circumstances of which, I think, everybody is well aware. The legislation is important to the good government of the country. The Government has to have adequate powers to safeguard the services which it, as a government, and its employees are committed to provide to the people of Australia. It must be able to make sure that the responsibilities to which it is committed as a government are carried out. The Government has also made it clear that the hope is that it will not be necessary to use this legislation. It will be passed by the Parliament but not proclaimed to operate unless circumstances so dictate. 
It is necessary to have it there, as the Minister made clear. There are elements in the Bill which must give rise to concern and to which I draw attention. The legislation is drawn in very broad terms. I seek clear assurances from the Government on several features of the legislation. In clause 3 the definition of industrial action is itself extremely broad. For example, sub-clause ( 1 ) (a) states: 
The performance of work in a manner different from that in which it is customarily performed, or the adoption of a practice in relation to work, the result of which is a restriction or limitation on, or a delay in, the performance of the work. 
Such action could surely result from a Commonwealth employee's inability to perform work in the way it is customarily performed because of circumstances beyond that individual's control. In other words, industrial action or other action elsewhere could compel a public servant or other Commonwealth employee to perform work in a different manner or to perform in such a way as to restrict, limit or delay his work not because it is that person's wish but by force of circumstances beyond his control. 
I have no doubt that this is not the intention But the real intention has to be clear in the legislation. Will the Government consider an amendment to make this clear and to remove any ambiguity and uncertainty as to the force of that aspect of the legislation? I ask that the Minister in responding provide some precise clarification on that aspect of the definition of industrial action. It might be said- it has been said- that such people can only be stood down. That provision is contained in clause 5. Obviously, that is not necessarily the case. How does one define, for example, the difference between those who are actively involved and those who are passively affected by industrial action? How does one distinguish between the guilty and the innocent in this situation? The distinction is important because those who are actively involved in such action can be dismissed. Those who may be passively affected can, nevertheless, be stood down. In this situation, how does one tell the difference? 

 Senator Hall has raised the question of standdown procedures and the necessity in many awards to appeal to the conciliation and arbitration process. That, I understand, is the case. Many awards include a provision for this sort of dismissal. In a great number of industries the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or a relevant State arbitral tribunal has inserted stand-down clauses in awards. I am told that these clauses have two basic forms. Under some the employer must apply to the arbitral tribunal before workers can be stood down but under the majority the employer has an automatic right to stand down employees. A typical stand-down clause is clause 6 of the Metal Industry Award 1971 Part 1. It states: 
The employer shall have the right to deduct payment for any day the employee cannot be usefully employed because of any strike or through any breakdown in machinery or any stoppage of work by any cause for which the employer cannot reasonably be held responsible. 
On 18 May 1973  Mr Commissioner  Neil of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission inserted an automatic stand down clause covering certain railway employees. In this award he stated:   an industry designed to provide a community service should not be asked to provide wages for those who cannot be usefully employed because that service has been disrupted by strike action either within or beyond the industry. 
Beyond that there is the question, which I think has been validly raised by  Senator Hall,  that this legislation provides for direct Executive action in standing down without any appeal to arbitral procedures and without any provision for such appeal. It seems to me that there ought to be some reconsideration of that very arbitrary provision and some consideration of an appeal in such circumstances through conciliation and arbitration procedures. Those awards to which I have referred, with their stand-down procedures, have been provided by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or by other arbitral tribunals. Surely that is a clear distinction in itself. 
I refer particularly to clause 8 of the Bill which deals with dismissals. It permits the employing authority or the Minister to re-employ, after termination of employment for a time, on any terms and conditions. This can be appealed after reinstatement. Most importantly, where dismissal has occurred, there is no right of appeal in the Bill. There is recourse to common law on the grounds of dismissal for improper reasons or contrary to the terms of the legislation. Surely appeal to common law, for all its virtues and for all the traditions that go with it, is an expensive and a lengthy process. As has been pointed out in this debate, the decision cannot be appealed through the Ombudsman legislation, as I had understood earlier. Section 5 of the Ombudsman Act states that the Commonwealth Ombudsman is not authorised to investigate 'Action taken by any body or person with respect to persons employed in the Australian Public Service '. 
There is in the legislation no clear means of appeal to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or to the Public Service Arbitrator. I understand that there may be some recourse through the Administrative Decisions Judicial Review Act when it is proclaimed, but clause 8 must be looked at in the light of clause 12, which states: 
An employing authority shall comply with any directions given to the authority by a Minister under this section in relation to the exercise by the authority of the authority 's powers under this Act. 
To me, this is the most important part of the Bill because it provides for ministerial direction. There is a clear danger in a Bill of this kind, which provides for such ministerial direction, such Executive direction of the employing authority within the Commonwealth sector, of allegations being made for dismissal for political  reasons. Obviously this does not occur in the private sector. Under this Act a Minister, who for better or worse is a member of a political party, has the power, quite arbitrarily in the circumstances, to dismiss employees by direction to the employing authority. There ought to be some form of appeal against such allegations. Yesterday the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  and I wrote to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  about this matter. Later in the day we received from him a reply giving some background to this question. I seek leave to incorporate those letters in  Hansard. 

 The letters read as follows- 18 August 1977 
The  Hon.  A. A. Street, M.P. Minister for Employment and 
Industrial Relations, Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 My dear Minister, 
With reference to the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill 1977, we would be grateful for clarification with respect to appeal procedures. 
Our reading of the Bill suggests that after suspension and termination of employment, there is no provision for any appeal against that termination (though we understand there is appeal in the case of employees reinstated). It had been our understanding that the legislation contained provisions for appeal against termination or that this was available through other related legislation. We now understand that this is not the case. 
If there is no such avenue of appeal, we seek your urgent advice as to whether the Government would consider including such provisions for appeal against termination of employment, either through amendment to the Bill or by Regulation. 
Yours sincerely, 
JOHN W. KNIGHT JOHN HASLEM 

 Senator for the Member for 
Australian Capital Territory Canberra 
Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations 239 Bourke Street, Melbourne 18 August 1977 
Dear  Senator Knight 
I refer to your letter of 1 8 August. 
It may be useful if I set down some background and Qualify the provisions of the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill on termination. 
First, in approaching the question of termination, the Government has sought to distinguish between the 'guilty' - those engaged in  industrial  action- and the 'innocent'- those affected by industrial action. The former can be suspended, the latter stood down, but in both cases the immediate practical effect is the same, in that no salary is payable during suspension or stand down. It is not until the termination stage which can apply only in respect of the 'guilty' that any penalty is evident. 
Second, there are a number of conditions that have to be fulfilled before termination can occur employees engaged in industrial action employing authority suspends him because of that conduct he remains suspended the employing authority or Minister is of the opinion that it is in the public interest that the power of termination should be exercised. the employing authority actually terminates an employee. 
In other words, the decision to terminate is not an action which will be taken lightly, but only as a final step in respect of an employee who has been engaged in industrial action. Therefore it would be contrary to the general thrust of the legislation- the need for more effective powers than can now be exercised in situations of industrial action- were a bill to be contemplated in respect of the actual suspension and termination itself. Morover in the light of what I have indicated, the Government considers that this is not unreasonable in all the circumstances. 
The Government sees the circumstances relating to reinstatement as somewhat different in that there is a discretion in the hands of the employing authority as to continuing penalties which may be imposed in respect of the terms and conditions of employment of the employee. In those circumstances, the Bill makes the way clear for the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, or the Public Service Arbitrator, as the case may be, to review those conditions which may be imposed. 
I have written in similar terms to  Mr Haslem. 
Yours sincerely A. A. STREET 

 Senator J. W. Knight Parliament House Canberra, A.C.T. 
I have made the point that the common law is  unwieldly  and expensive. The Commonwealth Ombudsman legislation does not apply. The question remains whether the Administrative Appeals Tribunal can be used in such cases. I seek the clarification of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs on that point. There is the question of when the Administrative Decisions Judicial Review Act will be proclaimed and whether it is relevant anyhow. In the light of this, I ask the Government to consider the question of providing in the legislation the right of appeal against dismissal. 
I suggest it is time that a Commonwealth employees ombudsman was appointed. There is no avenue of appeal through the Commonwealth Ombudsman in such cases, as I have pointed out in my reference to the Ombudsman Act. There is already a Defence Force Ombudsman. If there were a Commonwealth employees ombudsman there would be a clear course of appeal by Commonwealth employees against such Executive decisions. I believe that would be an appropriate course to take. I ask the Minister to consider that point of view and perhaps give us his views on it. 
As the Bill stands I do not believe the provisions for appeal are adequate. This issue needs to be considered by the Government. But at the same time I think the Government must, in the circumstances, because of the nature of the power of the Minister concerned, give an unqualified undertaking that the legislation will not be used to dismiss employees for political purposes. I do not believe it would be so used, but it is important in these circumstances that the Government should be seen publicly to give that commitment, that it will not be used in such a way. Such an undertaking would, of course, be open constantly to public scrutiny. I believe it would give some reassurance that the executive power provided by this Bill would not be misused in that way. 
I want to make it clear that if at any time there are what seem to me to be substantive allegations of politically motivated dismissals, I will move immediately to have this Bill amended. The aim of the legislation, as I said at the outset, is to counter the confrontationist activities of a very small minority. I think that point ought to be well known to everyone listening to this debate. In the Commonwealth Public Service and among Commonwealth employees there is a very small group responsible for the sort of disruption we have seen recently. But in providing legislation like this, it is important that it ought not adversely affect the hard working and dedicated majority of public servants and other Commonwealth employees and it ought not be seen as a slur upon them. Ministers have a duty to make that clear. 
My fundamental objection is that the Bill is so broadly drawn. The definitions in many respects lack clarity. I recognise that section 66 of the Public Service Act already provides for the dismissal of Commonwealth employees for strike action.  Senator Bishop  asked earlier why this power is not used and why this new legislation has been introduced. It is perhaps worth mentioning that this legislation at least provides for appeals for employees who may be reinstated on terms and conditions less favourable than those which applied when they were dismissed. But it is the lack of appeal against dismissal that gives me greatest concern. My reservations then are the scope of the Bill, the problems with some of the definitions in it, the lack of appeal against dismissal, possible allegations of political dismissal and the question of some form of arbitral appeal with respect to stand-downs under clause S. 
I ask that the Minister give attention to these points in his response to the debate. I have to say that I consider this legislation to be on trial. It is new and I believe it has to be looked at as it works. I wish to make it clear that I shall act to preserve the legitimate rights of Commonwealth employees should this legislation in any way infringe those proper democratic rights. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. I refer to reports that services from the Canberra office of the Bureau of Meteorology are to be reduced. Are these reports correct? If so, can the Minister say what reductions in services are proposed, the reason for these and whether any further reductions are likely? 
In supporting this legislation I should like to refer particularly to the International Fund for Agricultural Development because it is an important new multilateral development assistance scheme. It is also worth, I think, referring to the International Development Association which is a long established development assistance agency. It was established in 1960 and it is generally recognised as the most effective and largest concessional lending institution in the multilateral field. It has over the years since 1960 provided development assistance credits totalling $ 1 1 billion to developing countries. Under the legislation before the Senate there is provision for Australia to contribute to the IDA another $134m. This confirms again that Australia is, as it has been traditionally, a strong supporter of the IDA- and it has been a member since its inception. The IDA is very closely associated with the World Bank. Like the World Bank and in co-operation with the World Bank the IDA carefully scrutinises projects in which it is involved, and it has a very fine record of success in the programs in which it has been involved in the developing world. For those reasons Australia's contribution is doubly justified. The second Bill before the Senate provides for an initial Australian contribution of $A8m to the International Fund for Agricultural Development and is of particular significance. It is a new institution and I think it needs to be seen in the broader context of proposals for a new international economic order which emerged most specifically from the sixth special session of the United Nations General Assembly in 1974. I think it represents a recognition amongst the socalled developed world and, most significantly, the OPEC countries that we are living through a period of fundamental change in which perceptions and assumptions with respect to the developing world are changing on the part of the more affluent countries, particularly countries that are classified generally as OECD countries or, as I have mentioned already, the OPEC countries, which are making their first major commitment as a bloc to an international development assistance agency. 
This, in itself, emphasises the fact that we are living through a period of what might be referred to as the new internationalism in which there are clear perceptions and a clear recognition of the greater interdependence of nations and the greater responsibility of one for another. As I have already mentioned, I think that was symbolised effectively in the declaration and program for a new international economic order adopted at the sixth special session of the United Nations General Assembly. It is, I think, a continuing process which countries such as Australia must be prepared for and be ready to accept some fundamental changes. Some of these are already occurring in proposals for a 'Common Fund' in connection with the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, in proposals for tariff adjustments to assist developing countries, in attitudes towards trans-national corporations, the transfer of resources from the more affluent countries to the developing world and, of course, in the field of energy. In all that the International Fund for Agricultural Development is in many ways symbolic of the move to a new international economic order and is regarded by many people as the first substantial step towards the establishment of a new international economic order. 
I think it is worth recalling that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  has made clear some of the implications of this proposed new international economic order for Australia. He has referred to it in the context of what he has called a new agenda' in international affairs. I wish to quote from a speech that he made in November last year, in which he said: 
In terms of the established, traditional agenda, framed essentially in terms of political and military power, our problems have always been that we do not possess enough of that power. Our broad foreign policy strategy has been to make up for that deficiency by maintaining close alliances with other democratic countries. But to the extent that the new agenda- 
Here he is referring to the new agenda in international affairs-  with its emphasis on economic questions, north-south issues of redistribution, food, nuclear energy, mineral resourcescomes to prevail, our position will be quite different. In most cases it will be one of being rather richly endowed with the going currency, rather than being short of it. This is likely to increase our international significance and bargaining power in some respects, but it also is likely to result in more demands being made on us, more pressure being brought to bear. How. then, should we respond to the efforts to redefine the issues of international affairs? 
I think this legislation needs to be seen in that context in that we are, in a sense, redefining our responses to these elements in international relationships. The International Fund for Agricultural Development, as  Senator Wriedt  suggested, emerged from the 1974 World Food Conference and Australia was one of the three developed co-sponsors with, if I remember rightly, the Netherlands and New Zealand. The Fund will be established with a capital of $US 1 billion for granting and lending, as appropriate, to developing countries. It will place emphasis on agricultural development in low income countries. It will also emphasise food production in areas of major food deficit and the improvement of living conditions of the rural poor in developing countries. Of particular importance is the fact that it will place emphasis on the reduction of malnutrition in developing countries. As I have already suggested, one of the most important new elements in the establishment of the International Fund for Agricultural Development is the involvement of the OPEC countries which are subscribing a very large part of the initial capital. This is the first time they have been involved in this way as a bloc in this sort of international development program to assist the developing world. In his second reading speech the Minister for Foreign Affairs made it clear why the Government supports this legislation. I recall, in passing, that he said: 
The Government believes that the International Fund for Agricultural Development has an important role to play as a new source of investment for projects designed to increase food production in developing countries. The Fund accords with one of our chief aid priorities of providing the impetus for developing countries to help themselves to achieve self reliance in food production. 
To that extent and in that way this legislation represents an important element in the development of a new international economic order. In that context it is also worth recalling that Professor Brezinzki. who is a special assistant to President Carter, recently suggested that in the world there is a quite fundamental change occurring from what he refers to as the 'libertarian' ideal to a greater emphasis on ideals of equality, which he refers to as 'egalitarian ' concepts. That, again, is directly relevant to the new international economic order. Professor Brezinzki refers to 'the rising global egalitarian passions'. It is this pursuit of equality in the world which, I think, in many respects is more important now to many people than the traditional pursuit of the concept of freedom. 
The International Development Association represents the traditional element in international aid programs whereas the International Fund for Agricultural Development represents a new element in the scheme and is symbolic of moves towards some new international economic structure. I think it indicates the new emphasis and urgency of the new international economic order, and it is worth recalling that there are now 400,000,000 people in the world suffering from malnutrition, many of them children; that the developed world consumes the vast bulk of the world's resources and that it is necessary that a privileged minority in relation to the rest of the world, such as we are in Australia, should consider our position very carefully and contribute as we are doing, and as this legislation provides, to international assistance funds of this kind. We have an important and, I believe, an inescapable role to play, one that these Bills suggest and, I hope, confirm that we are ready to play. I believe that they represent a commitment to moves towards a new international economic order. I therefore support the Bills. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
1 ) Is the Prime Minister aware of a statement concerning discrimination in Government services in the Annual Report of the Commissioner for Community Relations for 1 976 that A significant number of complaints have arisen because of the inadequacy of government services available to the Australian whose first language is not English and who will never be able to attain an adequate erudition in his second language'. 
How many such complaints have been received and what is the nature of the major complaints. 
What action is being taken to overcome the difficulties encountered by people making such complaints. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to a report in the Melbourne  Age  yesterday that the Commonwealth Commission of Inquiry into Poverty is now being hampered in its work through lack of funds. The report suggested that a number of research papers cannot be published, that there are staff shortages, that the Commission lacks adequate office space and is uncertain of its future. Can the Minister indicate whether this report is in fact correct? What is the current status of the Commission of Inquiry? What is the Government's attitude to its work and further research activities? 
I ask a question of  Senator Guilfoyle  in her capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Government planning for the construction by the Health Insurance Commission or Medibank of a headquarters building in the Australian Capital Territory? If so, can the Minister say what stage planning has reached? Where is it intended that such a building be constructed? When is construction likely to commence? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I refer to a report in the  Canberra Times  concerning the administration of justice in the Australian Capital Territory. I quote from a report of a statement by the Chief Magistrate,  Mr Kilduff: 
The Attorney-General's Department's attitude to the administration of justice in the Australian Capital Territory was criticised strongly by the Chief Magistrate,  Mr Kilduff,  in Canberra Petty Sessions yesterday. 
He said that delays in getting matters on for hearing were inordinate, serious and unacceptable' and that there had been a number of failures within '.he administration in recent limes which he could describe only as inefficiency and ineptitude'. 
The Chief Magistrate went on to refer to a number of particular aspects of the administration of justice and the role of the AttorneyGeneral's Department. 1 ask the AttorneyGeneral whether these matters will be examined by him and his Department and what action might be taken to overcome the problems referred to by the Chief Magistrate. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It refers to the safety of seat belts in aircraft. I understand that it is now a general rule that seat belts in motor vehicles should fasten at the side of a passenger rather than in the middle of the body. Can the Minister state whether any investigations have been made as to the safety of aircraft seat belts which fasten in the middle? Is it not a fact that investigations have shown on occasions that significant injuries have been suffered in aircraft accidents as a result of an impact between a passenger's body and the heavy buckle of a seat belt? Will the Minister have this matter examined to see whether aircraft seat belts should fasten at the side, as is now generally the case in motor vehicles? Will the Minister also examine whether the narrow, unpadded seat belts currently in use are effective or whether some other form of belt might be of greater benefit to the safety of air passengers? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory and refer to proposals by  Mr Kerry  Packer to hold a series of international cricket matches in various cities of Australia. Can the Minister say whether a request has been received for the use of facilities in Canberra for the Packer cricket series? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, who also has responsibility for Public Service matters. I refer to the Public Service Board's annual report for 1977 and to the employment of the handicapped in the Public Service. In its report the Board stated: 
Policies of providing for employment of the handicapped had not been put into effect as energetically as necessary. 
The report refers, however, to special projects conducted in the Australian Capital Territory, for example with respect to work experience for handicapped people. Can the Minister say whether action has been taken to ensure that the Public Service Board and the Government provide greater employment opportunities for the handicapped? Can the Minister say how many handicapped people are being employed by the Public Service in view of its importance as an employer in the Australian Capital Territory? 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in the Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 13 September, 1977, Steve Biko, President of the Black People's Convention died, aged 30, while being held incommunicado for questioning in detention without trial in South Africa; 
That this is the 20th death of a black political prisoner in similar circumstances in South Africa in the last 1 8 months; and the 44th death of a prisoner while in police custody in recent years; 
That Steve Biko had been held in detention since August 22; and had previously been held for 10 1 days without trial; and in addition, was under a five year house arrest and restriction order; 
That Steve Biko is the acknowledged leader of the black people's resistance to apartheid, racial exploitation and injustice in South Africa, and that in this context his death in the hands of the white police must be regarded with grave suspicion; 
Your petitioners accordingly request the Australian Government to register the strongest protest to the South African Government at the circumstances of Biko 's death. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Administrative Services and refer to reports that the Indian High Commission in Canberra has received a letter from the so-called Universal Proutist Revolutionary Federation threatening members of the staff of the High Commission and those associated with them with violence and even assassination, as I understand it. What information does the Minister have about this organisation which calls itself the Universal Proutist Revolutionary Federation? Is it associated with the Ananda Marga movement? Will the Minister ensure that immediate investigations are undertaken into both of these groups to assess whether either is contemplating or is involved in violent actions against Australians or the nationals of other countries in Australia? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Administrative Services who is responsible for the National Library of Australia which deals with the Canberra Public Library Service. I preface my question by saying that I know the Minister is aware of proposals to close four children's libraries in Canberra on 30 September and of concern expressed about this by many people. As the proposed closure of these libraries is only eight days away and in view of representations that have been made, I ask the Minister: Is there any prospect of maintaining the libraries and the services that they provide to the children of Canberra? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, who is in charge of the Public Service. I refer to suggestions in the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association's journal for September and recently by officers of the ACOA that staff ceilings have been particularly responsible for an increase in the number of public servants on long term sick leave. Can the Minister say whether the increase from about 770 to 1,507 since December 1975 in the number of public servants on long term sick leave is considered to result primarily or significantly from staff ceilings? Can he say whether other factors such as the age structure of the Service or the 1976 Superannuation Act might also be important in accounting for this increase? Is a study of the increase to be carried out? If so, will the Minister ensure that in the interests of the Government's own employees the study is completed as quickly as possible? Will he also ensure that the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association is consulted in conducting such a survey in view of the information available to the Association? Finally, will the results of such a study be made public? 
I ask the Minister for Education whether he can say what stage has been reached with the appointment of ancillary staff, particularly 40 additional staff, in schools in the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
Is the Minister aware of a statement in the First Annual Report of the Commissioner for Community Relations for 1976 that some ethnic groups have 19 times the average rate of admissions to mental hospitals. 
Is the Minister also aware of the Commissioner's statement that there are no trained mental health interpreters available for mental hospitals. 
Is the Minister aware of the Commissioner's statement that almost half of all immigration repatriation cases were on psychiatric grounds. 
What action is being taken to overcome these difficulties by his Department. 
What consultations have been held with the Minister of Department of Health on these matters. 
asked the Minister for Science the following question, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen reports that the United States of America is to establish its first large-scale experimental solar energy electricity generating plant at Barstow in California in 1978 to begin production by about 1980-81; if so, are these reports correct. 
Is Australia to be associated with this project in any way, for example under the United States-Australia Agreement for Scientific and Technical Co-operation; if so, what form will this association take; if not, will the Government take action to assess whether Australia might be informed of progress with the project. 
I undertook recently to present a petition to the Senate from a group of lone parents, particularly lone fathers who were demonstrating outside Parliament House. Because of the form in which the petition was prepared I was unable to present it to Parliament, so I would like to take the opportunity of the adjournment debate to read the material which it had been intended to present to the Senate in the form of a petition at the normal time. The petition read: 
We the lone fathers of Australia petition the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  to have legislation passed giving assistance to fathers who have custody of and are sole supporters of their dependent children. 
Assistance sought: 
Pension for those supporting fathers who need them comparable to the Supporting Mothers Benefit. 
Government assisted paid housekeepers. 
More government funded child-care facilities. 
Tax concessions for child minding expenses. 
Equal rights with women when claiming custody of their children. 
The petition as given to me was signed by 64 people, most of whom are from the Australian Capital Territory, but a number are from Melbourne. It is worth noting that at present the assistance available for lone fathers is not the same as that available to lone mothers. It is not analagous to the class A widows pension or the supporting mothers benefit. There are discretionary provisions under section 124 of the Social Services Act for the provision of special benefits, but that is short term, for example, for school holidays or in times of illness if assistance is not readily available from other sources. 
-Indeed. It is still lower, even when it is granted, than the Class A widow's pension or the supporting mother's benefit as special beneficiaries are not entitled, for example, to receive a mother's or a guardian's allowance. There is, in addition, a more stringent income test for the special benefit which is provided under section 124 of the Social Services Act. The problems involved with this are well illustrated when it is remembered that the lone mother can earn $26 a week, in addition to the benefits that are available with a reduction of 50c for each additional dollar earned over the $26 limit, whereas the lone father can earn only $6 and beyond the $6 point there is a dollar for dollar reduction. 
I think it has to be recognised that sole parents, lone parents in large numbers, often with young children, represent a relatively new phenomenon in our society, but an increasingly prevalent one, to which governments have to give increasing attention and that adequate benefits have to be provided for these people. Lone fathers face some special disabilities. On the basis of the petition I have read out, there is a need for an inquiry into the needs and rights of lone fathers. There is need particularly for an examination of the possibility of establishing a single and equal lone parent's pension. The general problems referred to in the petition presented by the lone parents who demonstrated outside Parliament, but particularly the lone fathers involved, ought to be examined in the general context of the problems faced in our society by lone parents. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of a statement in the Annual Report of the Commissioner for Community Relations for 1976 that if problems relating to mental health services for immigrants are to be overcome, three approaches should be taken: ( a ) encourage the migration of more bi-lingual professionals; (b) adequate professional interpreter services: and (c) every Australian professional in the mental health field should, as part of that person's training, undertake a course to provide some appropriate background on this problem. 
2 ) Can the Minister indicate what action is being taken to achieve these purposes. 
Have consultations been held with the Minister and Department of Health on this matter; if so, what has been the outcome. 
I direct the attention of the Attorney-General to reports that the Government is now deliberately delaying the introduction of legislation on freedom of information and ask him, first: Is that the case? Secondly, can he in fact say whether it is still planned that the legislation will be introduced during the current sittings of parliament? If so, can he also indicate precisely when this might occur? 
While I am still a member of the Senate I would like to ask a question of the Minister for Education. In view of the serious situation involving substantial numbers of unemployed young people in the Australian Capital Territory, can the Minister say whether further consideration has been given to measures to deal with this situation in the Territory and whether any decisions have yet been made to assist in alleviating the problem? 
-by leave-The document I have tabled is a further report from the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory in the series relating to changes to the plan of the national capital. The report deals with the 64th series of such variations. The Committee has recommended the implementation of each of the 32 items which were referred to it by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley).  The series contains proposals for important roadworks. It is proposed to upgrade portion of the Barton highway and eventually to duplicate the existing road so that it becomes a dual carriageway, bypassing the township of Hall. The road will then become part of Canberra's urban parkway system and will also provide a more appropriate approach to the capital. Work is proposed to begin on this project almost immediately. The Committee also recommends implementation of proposals to improve traffic flows at intersections on the Tuggeranong Parkway which is the main north-south route linking the new towns of Woden and Belconnen. 
This series contains a number of proposals for the gazettal of new residential areas in Belconnen and Tuggeranong. These proposals caused the Committee some initial concern due to the surplus of serviced land and a bank of residential land of 9,700 blocks already gazetted and available for servicing. The Committee questioned why more residential land needed to be made available. After a further meeting with senior officials of the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Capital Territory the Committee was satisfied that that proposals can be recommended. Recent revision of projected population growth rates has led to a new strategy being required. It is now the intention of the NCDC to concentrate settlement near existing facilities and services and to defer proposals for development in the more remote parts of the Territory. These considerations have resulted in action to slow down the expansion of Tuggeranong, postponement of the proposed new town of Gungahlin and concentration on developing Belconnen- Evatt, McKellar and Florey- and the existing Tuggeranong suburbs of Wanniassa and Kambah. The Committee was satisfied that the NCDC and the Department of the Capital Territory have adopted plans appropriate to the changing demand for land and housing in the Australian Capital Territory. The Commission had entered into contracts for land servicing for housing at the peak of the boom in 1974. These contracts had been honoured and the land servicing program gradually adjusted since then to accord with current levels of demand. 
The Committee has also been informed by the NCDC that the total value of the works associated with the 64th series which will be undertaken in the current financial year will be $ 12.7 million. Included in this figure is $900,000 for the first stage of the Woden Technical and Further Education College which, in total, is estimated will amount to $6.4 million. Some of the roads which will be built as a result of this series of variations will also enable other associated building projects, such as the Belconnen retail market car park, to proceed. It may be of interest for honourable senators to be acquainted with a procedural development of some importance to the Committee's work. In the past the sessions at which the Committee has been briefed by the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Capital Territory on these proposals have been conducted in closed session. The Committee decided that with this series and future variations these briefings should be open to the Press and public. Accordingly, the briefing in respect of this series took place at public hearing. The Committee feels this will serve to ensure that members of the public are fully informed about proposed changes contained in the variations and will provide opportunity for a more thorough public examination of such proposals. I commend the report to the Senate. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. I refer to concern- quite proper concern- that has been expressed recently about a possible site for a national museum in Canberra. This concern is related especially to the Pigott Committee's recommendation that a 90 hectare site be provided at the foot of Black Mountain. Can the Minister say whether a site has been set aside for possible use for a national museum and whether roadworks such as the Glenloch Interchange and William Hovell Drive will affect the possible site? In particular, can the 
Minister say whether an area of up to 90 hectares could be provided in the area proposed by the Pigott Committee? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Administrative Services. It relates also, in part, to his role at present as Minister representing the Minister for Education. As background information, I point out that at one school at least in the Australian Capital Territory in recent days people, apparently representing the organisation known as the Children of God, have been handing out rather strange literature to pupils arriving at the school and have tried to get these young people to join their organisation. In view of concern that has been widely expressed about this organisation and its activities relating to young people and the natural anxiety of parents when Children of God seek recruits in the immediate vicinity of schools, can the Minister say whether any action can be taken to restrict such activities near schools and attempts to have young people join an organisation such as the Children of God? Will he undertake to have this matter examined urgently because of the concern of many people, including teachers and parents? . 
-I present the following petition from 212 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
The present method of valuing land for rates is inequitable in that ratepayers are paying greatly varying rates for essentially the same municipal services. 
Ratepayers in inner Canberra are subsidising municipal services in the newer suburbs. 
Since valuations were carried out in January 1976 the housing market and resultant values have become severely depressed. 
The decline in demand and consequent drop in unimproved land values in the newer suburbs resulting in the increase in unimproved land values in the inner suburbs has been brought about by the Government's economic policies applying to Canberra. 
The steep increase in rates is directly counter to the Government's stated policy of reducing prices and incomes as expressed by its strong support for the wages and prices  freeze ' earlier this year. 
Purpose clauses contained in residential leases are ignored when determining valuations for rates. 
The percentage increase in rates in many instances is far greater than the percentage increase in real incomes. 
Many  bona fide  long term residents living in inner Canberra living on fixed or low incomes may be forced to sell their houses and move to outer suburbs away from familiar surroundings and friends. Others, in order to meet their rate payments, may have to reduce their standard of living. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate ensure that: 
The Minister for the Capital Territory honour the Government's commitment to reducing costs by substantially reducing unimproved land values particularly in the inner suburbs where housing is used for  bona fide  residential purposes. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory urgently implement a more equitable means of valuing which relate rates to the costs of municipal services provided to each ratepayer. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Is the Minister for Education aware of recent reports containing allegations of the misuse of funds by the Australian National University? Because of concern about this matter, particularly among people at the Australian National University, can the Minister inform the Senate whether there is any basis for the allegations? 
-by leave-The report I have just tabled deals with a single item omitted from the 64th Series of Variations to the City 
Plan tabled last week. The proposal involves a road variation in Corinna and Keltie Streets at Phillip in the Woden Town Centre to enable the construction of boom-gate parking adjacent to shops at the Centre. Similar proposals relating to Civic were contained in the report on the 64th Series and the Committee recommended their implementation. 
The introduction of boom-gate parking is, in the Committee's view, an appropriate innovation in Canberra at present. The new system is intended to ensure that parking costs are distributed more equitably between those wishing to park all day and those making short visits for the purpose of shopping or other business. It will also mean that parking can be controlled more effectively and that parking charges are paid. The Committee recommends implementation of the proposal. However, the Committee is firmly of the view that the public should not be inconvenienced by construction work being undertaken during the Christmas period and that work should not begin before 1 January 1978. It is noted that the project is planned for completion by March 1978. The total cost with associated works is estimated to be $850,000. I commend the report to the Senate. 
I move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory: To undertake a continuing review of the extent to which recommendations made in the Committee's report 'Canberra city wastesA long-term strategy for collection and disposal', presented to both Houses of Parliament on 8 December 1976, have been implemented, and the current position regarding matters discussed in the report. 
That the foregoing resolution be communicated to the House of Representatives by message. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Is the Minister for Education aware that an international conference that is supported by the Australian Institute of International Affairs, with assistance from the Government through the Department of Foreign Affairs, has reportedly been forced off the campus of the Australian National University as a result of threats of demonstrations? Can the Minister say whether this means that all future meetings on the campus of the ANU must be open to the public and that people will not be free to hold private meetings on university campuses? 
I wish to ask a question of the Attorney-General which refers to the current work load of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court and action that is now being taken to resolve the position of  Mr Justice  Fox, the Chief Judge. I ask: Can the Attorney-General say when he might be able to announce the appointment of a new judge for the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court? 

 -Mr Deputy President, I address a question to you. It may be a matter which needs to be referred to the Minister for the Capital Territory. I refer to the concrete blocks used as paving on the footpaths in front of Parliament House and adjacent to the bus stop. I have received several expressions of concern about the fact that several of the paving blocks are loose, that they are not level and that there are large gaps between them which results in some people, particularly elderly persons, finding it difficult to walk on the footpath. Only yesterday an elderly gentleman complained to me that he almost had what could have been a serious fall because of the state of the footpath. Because of this situation and because of the intensive use of this section of the footpath by the staff of Parliament House, others who work in this area and the large number of tourists, especially elderly persons who will be using the area in the coming months, will you investigate what can be done about the state of the footpath? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I shall refer the matter to the  President  and ask him to report to the Senate. 
Further to my question of 1 November concerning the removal of the Williamsburg Conference from University House at the Australian National University to the Lakeside Hotel, I ask the Minister for Education whether he can now provide the further information he then undertook to seek concerning the reasons for such transfer. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: As legislation relating to the position of  Mr Justice  Fox- I understand he is now Ambassador Fox-has been passed by the Parliament and, I understand, has been assented to, is the Attorney-General able to make any announcement concerning the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court, particularly concerning a replacement for Ambassador Fox? 
-The two reports that I have tabled relate to the work of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory in the 30th Parliament. The first refers to the inquiry currently being undertaken by the Committee into planning procedures in the Territory. The second is a report from the Committee on a matter referred by the Senate on the extent to which the Committee 's report of last December entitled Canberra City Wastes- a Long Term Strategy for Collection and Disposal' has been implemented. 
The work of the Committee is not, however, limited to these investigations and inquiries referred by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  and by the Parliament. Honourable senators will be familiar with the Committee's reports on proposals to vary the plan of lay-out of the City of Canberra and its environs. In this 
Parliament the Committee has examined proposals relating to the 60th, 61st, 62nd, 63rd and 64th series of such proposals and has presented reports to the Senate on each series. As well as providing a source of information to Parliament about the planning of the National Capital, the reports provide a useful source of information for the local community. This also permits a degree of involvement by the Parliament in the overall planning of the national capital. 
The Committee decided earlier this year to hold public meetings at which the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Capital Territory would brief members of the Committee on proposals rather than that this be done in closed session. This means that information on changes to the plan of Canberra contained in the transcript of these proceedings are readily available to the public, the Press and others concerned with or interested in Canberra 's planning. 
The inquiry into planning procedures and processes m the Australian Capital Territory is well advanced and the Committee would have reported early in the next autumn session if the duration of this Parliament had allowed. Evidence has now been taken from 34 of the 63 persons and organisations who have made submissions to the inquiry. The Committee has visited Darwin, Adelaide and Albury-Wodonga to obtain relevant information for the inquiry and had proposed to extend this to include other capital cities. 
The report I have tabled contains a strong recommendation that the inquiry into planning procedures and processes in the Australian Capital Territory be again referred to the Committee if it is re-appointed by the 31st Parliament. An election for the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly will take place before the end of 1978 and issues of future constitutional development for the Territory will be widely canvassed. The role of the Legislative Assembly in planning and development is a central aspect of this inquiry and will be an important consideration in the debate preceding that election. The conclusions of the Committee and recommendations on the role that the national Parliament should play, the future role and structure of National Capital Development Commission and its relations with the Legislative Assembly and the community, as well as relations between the various bodies involved in the planning process and their relationships with the community, should be available for consideration by those involved in that debate. I would therefore emphasise this Committee's view that the reappointment of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory after the election and the referral of this matter to it again should be a matter of priority. 
I have also tabled a short report dealing with steps that have been taken to implement the report from this Committee last December entitled 'Canberra City Wastes- a Long Term Strategy for Collection and Disposal'. This report simply informs Parliament of the actions that various Ministers and their departments have taken to implement recommendations made in the main report. Annexed to the report itself are copies of replies from Ministers to letters from me, as  Chairman  of the Committee, detailing the actions so far taken. 
The Committee notes in the report its general satisfaction with progress made so far on the recommendations but expresses the view that proposals which have not been implemented should be matters for continuing review by departments concerned and that further action should be taken where appropriate. Particular matters which still concern the Committee are: Firstly, the failure so far to implement the Committee's recommendation for a pilot scheme to test the feasibility of a household based waste recovery collection system that would involve segregation of waste so that as much paper, metal, glass and other valuable materials can be recovered from the waste stream; and, secondly, delays in enacting comprehensive air pollution legislation. Air pollution in Canberra needs to be regulated by legislation and everything possible should be done to expedite this legislation. 
In relation to the Committee's recommendations for the establishment of a waste authority to integrate various aspects of collection and disposal in the Territory, the Minister for the Capital Territory has commented that in view of the possible transfer of this function to control by the Legislative Assembly it would be wrong to pre-empt the Assembly by making a decision about future arrangements and authorities. However, the Minister has established an interdepartmental co-ordinating committee as an interim measure. In the Committee's view, as an interim step, this is a satisfactory compromise. But the Committee holds to its earlier view that a waste authority is necessary if this matter is to receive the expert and co-ordinated attention that it requires in a city such as Canberra. 
Finally, I would like to express my thanks to all members and senators who have served on the Committee during this Parliament for the support they have given me as  Chairman  and the contribution they have made to the work of the Committee. I would like also to take this opportunity to express special thanks to the clerk to the Committee,  Mr Nairn,  and the Committee's research officer,  Mr Watson,  for the work they have done for the Committee. I commend the reports to the Senate. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory whether he is aware of claims that 47,000 householders in the Australian Capital Territory have recently had increases in rates of 50 per cent or more. Can the Minister say whether this statement is accurate or could be considered grossly inaccurate and misleading? 
-Can the Minister for Administrative Services say whether a decision has yet been made about the construction of a national archives building in the Australian Capital Territory? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Science. It applies also to his role as Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. I refer to questions which I asked in 1976 concerning the intrusion of European carp into the waterways of Australia, including the Australian Capital Territory and Lake Burley 
Griffin. Is a carp catching contest to be held during Canberra Week which begins this weekend? Can the Minister say whether this is related to research into the habits of the carp? Can he indicate what will happen to those carp which are caught? Will they be used for research or other purposes? 
I rise to support the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply which was moved so ably by  Senator Walters  and seconded by  Senator Collard.  In doing so I congratulate  Senator Haines  on her maiden speech which has been justly praised by many speakers. I join with them. It is significant that this Address-in-Reply is directed to the new Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen, who already has had a distinguished career in academic and public life in Australia. I take this opportunity to join others in this chamber who have extended congratulations to  Sir Zelman  on his appointment. I believe that he will enhance the office which he holds, as will Lady Cowen who will add a special graciousness to the office and particularly to Government House at Yarralumla. 
I take this opportunity also to compliment  Senator Devitt  on the speech he has just made and to which I listened with great interest. He has shown a comprehensive understanding of and sympathy for the Antarctic on matters ranging from exploration and scientific research to voting rights for those serving in the Antarctic. In dealing as he did so sympathetically with the Antarctic, it has been of significance for many of us to listen to what he had to say and to hear what he wrote in his diary because the Antarctic is a very important element in Australia's history and traditions but one which has too often been obscured by other factors. Nevertheless, it is coming to a new prominence in the affairs of the nation both domestically and, as  Senator Devitt  pointed out, internationally. It is something to which many of us in this country and certainly in this Parliament will need to address ourselves more comprehensively than we have done in the past. 
Earlier in the Address-in-Reply debate Senatory Chaney pointed out that a major theme in much of the public life of the Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen, has been a great respect for democracy and its various institutions as well as for the principles of liberal democracy. It is worth noting that those are probably the main themes underlying the Governor-General's Speech which was delivered to the Parliament at the opening of the 31st Parliament. It is worth stressing that that Speech and the policies enunciated in it were based on principles of modern liberalism. It outlines a program which I believe expresses Liberal ideals and a practical liberal philosophy. It contained policies which are relevant and realistic given the resources at our disposal and the situation which the Government and the nation face. The Speech showed special concern for the welfare of people in need in our community. It referred to the expanded availability of domiciliary nursing facilities in Australia. The funding of the programs of housing for the aged and housing for the handicapped will be extended for a further year. 
One of the major fundamental reforms announced first of all in the Prime Minister's policy speech and referred to in the GovernorGeneral 's address is that in future handicapped children will be educated so that the costs to their parents will be no greater than the costs to parents of other children. For too long in our society and in most others handicapped children and adults have faced not only the physical, visual or intellectual handicaps that they may have but also the additional handicaps they encounter within society with problems ranging from the cost of medical care and education to simpler but no less important matters such as access to buildings. The Speech referred appropriately to the expansion of services for migrant welfare, health and education programs and very significantly to the development of an ethnic television service. It referred to innovations in the field of human rights and civil liberties, the establishment of a human rights commission and to freedom of information legislation which I hope will be given priority. 
One of the issues to which many speakers have addressed themselves throughout the debate is the relevance of Parliament, the institution in which we all participate. I think we all welcomed the announcement in the Governor-General's 
Speech that there will be an inquiry into questions relating to the public duty and private interests of members of parliament and others in public life. One would hope that out of this inquiry will come clear guidelines on these matters for all people in public life. The GovernorGeneral's Speech also referred to the development of the parliamentary committee system and there are many aspects of it which deserve careful examination. Many speakers in this debate have referred to them.  Senator Chaney  and  Senator Rae  in particular suggested reforms and innovations which are of great significance to the Parliament and to this chamber. 
I mention in passing that I have a personal view that the life of the Parliament should be extended to four years and that it ought to be a mandatory term, although I recognise that for it to be made mandatory there are many very substantial constitutional problems to be overcome. It is obviously a matter which, although it is now under examination by a government committee, ought to go to the Constitutional Convention to be examined by it. This is an appropriate time for Australia to be looking to further constitutional reforms. More than three-quarters of a century have elapsed since the establishment of the Federation and we must look at the relevance of our Constitution and the relevance of this Parliament and re-examine them. Where there are appropriate reforms and these can be agreed upon, they ought to be put to the people or if they can be otherwise implemented this should be done.  Senator Chaney,  as many other speakers in the debate have done, referred to a paper by Professor Reid in which there is a significant quotation which refers to the Parliament: 
It is to the Parliament's disadvantage that its official secretariat is fragmented into even more parts than the Parliament itself. 
It does seem that we might all benefit- officers and members- from some consolidation of the parliamentary departments which administer the services and facilities of the Parliament. Of equal significance in Professor Reid's paper was a statement, as I recall, was also referred to by  Senator Chaney  and I would like to quote it again. Referring to the outcome of matters referred to earlier in the paper, Professor Reid said: 
The outcome has been that the more numerous of the two Houses- the House of Representatives- has become the captive of the Executive Government of the day and is now a sadly repressed and debilitated parliamentary chamber. The Senate, due to a variety of circumstances, has developed the ability to check, to question, even obstruct the government of the day but as a result it has become widely a criticised and frequently maligned and threatened parliamentary body. 
Despite that. I think it emphasises the fact that the Senate has an important and perhaps critical role to play in the future of the Parliament as a legislative institution and in the relationship between the legislature and the Executive. It is also worth looking back at the well-known book by Professor Crisp entitled  Australian National Government,  in which several years ago he wrote: 
It is nowadays a commonplace in British countries that Parliament is in eclipse, a pale, even sickly pale, moon reflecting but a little of the shining sunlight of Executive power. Amongst British Parliaments around the world the Australian has perhaps suffered a more substantial eclipse than most. 
I do not think many people in the Parliament or in the Australian community seriously question those judgments. But I also think that most would argue that it is essential to uphold the role of Parliament as the source of government and as the voice of the people. That is obviously also a matter for the Parliament itself. I agree with Professor Reid. It seems to me that the Senate is the essential means of achieving this aim. It is within the power of the Senate to reform itself and to ensure that it maintains the critical parliamentary role which it, and thus the Parliament, holds. If we do not we will not have far to look for those responsible. Indeed, we will not have to look far beyond the chamber. The reference in the Governor-General's Speech to some reform of the committee system in parliament is a sign that the Executive supports the need for reform. I hope, in addition, that the Senate and the House of Representatives will address themselves to the need for parliamentary reform so that parliament will be more relevant and more effective as a legislature. 
I wish to deal briefly with some aspects of social policy relating to handicapped and disabled people in the community. In the past two years the Government has done a good deal, for example, by the improvements in the handicapped child's allowance and the handicapped children's benefit. Without going into detail on those and the various allowances which have been increased and facilities which have been improved, I shall quickly refer to a few areas where I think the Government might examine further initiatives in accordance with the sorts of proposals and ideals expressed in the GovernorGeneral's Speech relating to the equality of facilities for handicapped persons with respect to education, for example. 
One area in which a good deal has already been achieved in the past two years is in services for the visually handicapped provided by the 
National Library. A register of services was prepared by the Library in 1976, if I recall correctly. The Library is now in the process of developing a union catalogue of all taped and Braille material available for the visually and physically handicapped in Australia through libraries. It is now extending the register of services. An announcement earlier this week said that the register which was published in 1976 is to be extended and some 707 organisations and groups are to be contacted so that a more comprehensive register of library services available to the handicapped within Australia will be established. 
Recently I was in the United States and I discussed with people at the Library of Congress in its Division for the Blind and Physically Handicapped the network of services throughout the United States for such people. It is a comprehensive service and takes in more than 100 libraries throughout the United States. It is based on the Library of Congress, which is equivalent to our National Library. I believe we ought to be looking at some sort of similar network in Australia for visually and physically handicapped people. It may also be relevant for mildly intellectually handicapped people. That situation ought to be kept in mind. The National Library in Canada and the Library of Congress in the United States concentrate their efforts on the blind and physically handicapped. But I think these services where they are relevant ought to be considered also for the intellectually handicapped. 
We might benefit from establishing some branch within the National Library of Australia to develop services for the handicapped. Both the National Library in Canada and the Library of Congress have such a branch. I think the time has come when we ought to have a similar branch within our National Library to coordinate and intensify the very valuable work which has been done already. I know that the National Library is giving great attention to this matter. It has already achieved a good deal. If I recall correctly, 1981 is to be the United Nations Year of the Disabled. This is the sort of initiative we could undertake in preparation for that year. We could take it a step further. Libraries in countries such as the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, are compiling union catalogues and registers of services. The Royal National Institute for the Blind is also doing it in the United Kingdom. This offers scope for the development of international inter-library loan services for the handicapped. This idea has been proposed by a man who lives in Canberra,  Mr David  Page. He travels extensively, particularly to North America. He is visually handicapped and he is taking a great interest in and spends much time looking at the development of services for visually handicapped people.  His  idea ought to be looked at sympathetically by the Government to see what can be achieved. I believe a great deal could be achieved fairly readily. 
A number of other things might be examined in an attempt to assist more adequately the handicapped within our community. I have spoken before about the concept of an institute on mental retardation. In Toronto recently I visited the Canadian National Institute on Mental Retardation. It has technical and professional resources and co-ordinates those resources and voluntary organisations. It has extensive training and research facilities. It is a major national information centre of facilities, services and research relating to mental retardation. There are already similar institutes in the United States and in the Caribbean. I understand that one is planned for New Zealand. In Australia we have the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped and the Australian Council for the Rehabilitation of the Disabled. They are important co-ordinating bodies. We have the Australian Association for the Mentally Retarded. I believe we could benefit significantly in this country- certainly the intellectually handicapped and mentally retarded could benefit greatly- from the establishment of an institute on mental retardation. I know the Government is looking at that matter. I hope it will continue to do so and that we might continue to develop more effective programs for intellectually handicapped people. 
I believe also that we must have more adequate statistics relating to handicapped people in our society. We have never had them. In 1 97 1 the first report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare, which dealt with mentally and physically handicapped persons in Australia, had as its second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth recommendations proposals relating to the need for better information and statistics relating to handicapped people within Australia, the degrees of handicapped and the location of handicapped people. That is something on which we should be working as a matter of some priority. To co-ordinate services more effectively, to understand needs and to know where they exist we need better basic statistical information. 
Another group whose potential contribution to our society has been too long or too often overlooked is the aged. It is worth noting that in the United States aged persons make an enormous contribution through voluntary programs or through 'voluntarism'. The United States has a federal agency for voluntary services which is known as Action. Action, which deals with the Peace Corps as an overseas operation, has six goals. Rather than read them out I seek leave to incorporate them in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

THE SIX GOALS OF ACTION 
To mobilize volunteers to participate in the innovative efforts of state and local governments, communities and institutions to solve local social and economic problems, particularly by strengthening and supplementing efforts towards helping the poor to overcome the handicaps of poverty. 
To support those programs of local governments, communities and institutions which will call upon volunteers to demonstrate new ways of solving community problems, particularly those related to poverty, and will lead to a continuing effort supported by local resources. 
To increase the participation in volunteer anti-poverty and other community improvement projects of the full range of community organizations. 
To stimulate interest by the local citizenry to join in the efforts to solve local problems, particularly those related to poverty, and to generate such interest by allowing local citizens greater input into the design and operation of programs. 
To increase the relevance of volunteer activity to efforts to solve the problems of local communities, particularly those related to poverty, by generating and utilizing greater number of community volunteers in serving in their own communities and drawn from all quarters of the community. 
To create and stimulate new approaches to voluntarism which demonstrate the potential of volunteers as a resource for the solution of problems arising out of poverty and other human needs. 
These voluntary programs for aged persons in the United States provide the dignity and satisfaction of making a continuing contribution to the community. For example, there is the Retired Senior Volunteers Program in which senior volunteers serve in schools, libraries, correctional institutions, hospitals, nursing homes, telephone reassurance schemes and local government agencies. Their activities include teaching, tutoring, cooking, driving for meals-on-wheels, making visits to patients in nursing homes, and helping out in a variety of ways. They make a significant contribution to people in need in the community and provide a service that otherwise might not exist. 
The Foster Grandparents program, which is also for people over 60 years of age, permits older people to act as grandparents to children, frequently handicapped children, and provide care and attention which otherwise might be lacking. It is important for the children but it is also important for the older people. The Senior Companion Program permits older people to act as companions to other older people, particularly the frail aged. Both parties benefit in that. One is able to lead a more satisfactory life and the other also to make a contribution to society at a time when so many people are retired and looking for something more constructive to do in their retirement. As I understand it, some 250,000 aged Americans are involved in these and similar voluntary programs. It would seem to me that that sort of scheme ought to be considered in Australia. I know that the Overseas Service Bureau, which operates Australian Volunteers Abroad, is looking at the possibility of a domestic voluntary program. It is something that deserves close consideration and ought to be encouraged by the Government. 
It is a voluntary program organised by the Overseas Service Bureau and based in Melbourne. It sends Australians overseas on minimal remuneration to serve in Asian, Pacific and some African countries. 
-That is true. They serve in various capacities ranging from carpenters to teachers. I think that is a fair comment on the range of skills that they bring to bear in a voluntary capacity. I believe that the concept of voluntarism is worth considering and one that the Australian Government ought to examine. 
I should like to deal finally with one or two questions relating to foreign policy. I believe that it is essential now to examine the many elements of change facing Australia's foreign policy. Inevitably they affect us, and the GovernorGeneral 's Speech made reference to this. Many elements need to be assessed carefully and then reassessed as we develop a foreign policy to take us into the 1980s and the latter years of this century. Many proposals have been made for a new international economic order, and I think it is worth quoting a speech made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  at the National Press Club on 18 November 1976. He said: 
In terms of the established, traditional agenda - 
That is the international agenda-  framed essentially in terms of political and military power, our problem - 
That is Australia 's problem-  has always been that we do not possess enough of that power. Our broad foreign policy strategy has been to make up for that deficiency by maintaining close alliances with other democratic countries. But to the extent that the 'new agenda'- with its emphasis on economic questions, North/South issues of redistribution, food, nuclear energy, mineral resources- comes to prevail, our position will be quite different. In most cases, it will be one of being rather richly endowed with the going currency, rather than being short of it. This is likely to increase our international significance and bargaining power in some respects, but it also is likely to result in more demands being made on us, more pressure being brought to bear. 
It is in the context of an emerging new agenda that trade and tariffs, questions such as the exchange of technology and the expansion of development assistance to the less affluent countries, become increasingly significant. I think that we have to address ourselves to those questions in a frame of mind rather different from the one in which we addressed major international issues in the 1950s and 1960s. I believe that the foreign policy which the Government is implementing and which was referred to in the GovernorGeneral 's Speech does that. 
But a number of other elements have to be examined. For example,  Senator Devitt  referred to the Antarctic. As I mentioned earlier in my remarks, the Antarctic is emerging as a major international issue. As I recall it, we have the largest territory in the Antarctic. We have territory there with New Zealand, the Soviet Union and the United States, and there are real questions as to who has the right to that territory. Many of the Third World countries believe that the resources that are assumed to exist in the Antarctic ought to be shared, and that is a question which Australia must face up to. There are also issues such as that involving the Cocos Island, which may not over many years have been considered to be a major international issue but which is one to which we now have to address ourselves. Many other similar issues have been in the background for a long time but are now emerging. There is the zone of peace, freedom and neutrality that has been proposed by the Association of South East Asian Nations. We have said that we are sympathetic to that concept but we do not necessarily consider that it is achievable. That is something to which we might consider giving more positive support and discuss in greater detail with the ASEAN countries. Perhaps in the future we could lend a little more support to the concept. Certainly a proposal such as that is worth a try. If it does not work not much can be done about it, but it is worth a try. 1 should like to refer particularly to one of the essential elements of our foreign policy and national security policy, alluded to in the opening remarks of the Governor-General on foreign policy. I refer to the pact that we have with the United States and New Zealand which is known as ANZUS. That pact grew out of very different circumstances in the post-war world, and whilst many of its concepts are still valuable I think that the time has come for us to look at ways to bring it up to date and perhaps to expand its relevance. That is already happening, and it relates back to the sorts of points made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his speech at the National Press Club on 18 November 1976. The change is occurring because the agenda is changing, and the question then is whether perhaps the treaty ought to change too. The Treaty does refer in its preamble to the prospect of the development of a more comprehensive system of regional security in the Pacific area. Article VIII refers to the Council of ANZUS, which consists of the Foreign Ministers, and states.   . . the Council ... is authorised to maintain a consultative relationship with States, Regional Organisations, Associations of States or other authorities in the Pacific Area in a position to further the purposes of this Treaty and to contribute to the security of that Area. 
I suppose that it depends a little on one's definition of security, but certainly security now takes in much more than military power, as suggested by the Foreign Minister in the statement that I quoted earlier. It now includes essential elements of economic relationships, trade, tariffs and so on- all the elements of the new agenda. In that context, I think it is worth looking at the communique issued following the last meeting of the ANZUS Council in Wellington in July 1977. The communique states: 
The Ministers recognised that the health of the economies of the three partners is of concern to each, for it affects their capacity to play the responsive and responsible role that world and regional circumstances demand of them and which is their common desire. They therefore agreed that they would consider their economic relationships and mutual problems within this larger framework. 
It is that emphasis on economic issues and relationship, on the development of the economies of the three ANZUS partners, that is rather different from the context in which the ANZUS Treaty was drawn up following World War II. It emphasises the changing nature of the Treaty relationship and perhaps the need for some reexamination of the Treaty itself. The communique also referred to the Council 's review of world developments, which included consideration of the global economic situation. So although the Treaty was focused on the Pacific, the ANZUS partners are now examining the global economic situation. The communique goes on to state: 
Ministers reiterated their commitment to maintain and if possible increase effectively and substantially the flow of assistance to the developing world and to play a constructive part in international efforts to bring about a more equitable and soundly based world economic order. 
Again, that emphasises that security is now not seen simply in terms of military power, as the Foreign Ministry suggested in November 1 976, but rather in economic terms. The communique also stated : 
The council members shared a special interest in the Asia/Pacific region and in contributing towards stability in the area. 
Again, that is a significant change, because the ANZUS Treaty refers only, and very specifically, to the Pacific area. The communique refers to the Asia/Pacific area and shows a broadening horizon on the part of the ANZUS partners. Again, I think that begs the question whether the Treaty needs to be re-examined more comprehensively. I read further from the communique: 
The Council noted that each of the ANZUS members attaches special importance to its relations with Japan and to the close consultations which they maintain with that country on the many matters of mutual interest. 
It is worth recalling in that context that ANZUS grew out of the Japanese Peace Treaty. That emphasises more symbolically than does anything else in the communique the changing circumstances, the changing international environment and the changes which, perhaps, ought to occur in the ANZUS Treaty. The communique refers to the Association of South East Asian Nations, to the South Pacific, to the interests of the three partners in the countries of the South Pacific, and to economic developments in that region. So it would seem that we do need to look at ANZUS which, I think, is perceived as a security, a military pact. Thus, our relationship with the United States is seen as being based on a security-style military pact which was signed and ratified in the early 1950s. 
It is important that our relationship with the United States be seen in the context of the more than 100 agreements, conventions and exchanges of letters- we had an example of the latter presented in this chamber today- which form the relationship between us. It is not one based simply on security arrangements, on a military pact. It is a much broader and more mature relationship than that, and I hope that some measures might be taken to ensure that all of us, the Australian community generally would perceive our relationship with the United States in that broader context. We have a treaty of friendship and co-operation with Japan, and perhaps we ought to be looking toward a treaty such as that with the United States, while maintaining the ANZUS Treaty. It is with pleasure that I support the Address-in-Reply motion by  Senator Walters,  and with many other honourable senators, look forward to the opportunity to join in presenting it to the Governor-General. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I refer to a recent article in the journal  Meanjin  entitled: 'The Mystic Stonewright: Walter Burley Griffiin'. Burley Griffin, of course, designed Canberra. The article states: 
Many see Griffin not just as one of the greatest and most original architects to have worked in this country, but also as one of the world 'd leading twentieth century architects. 
The article goes on to point out that in the last four years five of Walter Burley Griffin's buildings have been demolished in Melbourne alone. I understand that others have been demolished elsewhere. In view of that, I ask the Minister whether he can indicate what is being done or what action might be taken by the Government to ensure the preservation of as many as possible of Burley Griffin 's major works in Australia. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the annual report of Qantas Airways Ltd tabled in the Senate yesterday, which reported a commendable profit by Qantas and which contained the following statement by the Chairman: 
The United States has now designated Continental Airlines as a second US carrier on the South Pacific, despite the earlier disastrous losses of $25m by American Airlines and those of other carriers. I repeat what I said last year, financially their entry would be utterly destructive, and add that it would be sinfully wasteful of increasingly scarce and expensive energy resources. 
I leave aside the apparent contradiction in the American Administration's policy on energy and on this issue. In view of the fact that the function of Qantas is specifically to develop and operate international air services as the Australian flag carrier, can the Minister indicate whether negotiations are continuing on this matter, what attitude the Government has adopted and what action might be taken to ensure the continuing viability of Qantas on its South Pacific routes despite the apparent efforts of the American Administration to undermine its operations? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs concerning the United Nations Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Can the Minister say what progress has been made, particularly in negotiations with the States, towards ratification by the Commonwealth of the Covenant? 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether the Government still intends to re-introduce legislation relating to early retirement in the Commonwealth Public Service? If so, can the Minister indicate when that might be done and what progress has been made in discussions with Public Service organisations on the legislation? 
I want to make one point and that is to welcome the statement by  Senator Ryan  who conceded that the Labor Party does not oppose the taxing of the Canberra Commercial Development Authority but that it is a question of the timing of this legislation. I welcome the statement that the Opposition does see the necessity and the appropriateness of the taxation provisions included in this legislation. It is important that that be made clear because in another place the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  on 7 March, said: '. . . this enterprise should not pay tax'. I think it is important to note that it has been made clear by  Senator Ryan  that the Labor Party does not oppose that particular provision in the legislation but that it is a question of timing. On that aspect, I only say that-- 
I am dealing with clause 9 which refers to the Canberra Commercial Development Authority and the taxation provisions relevant to it. I want to conclude by emphasising what I was in the process of saying:  Senator Ryan  said that as a member of the advisory council in 1 974 it was no surprise to her when this decision was made in respect to the Canberra Commercial Development Authority. What I cannot understand is why it should be a surprise now and why this Bill should be seen as a matter of 'indecent haste', to use the words that were used by the Labor shadow Minister for the Capital Territory. I would simply like to emphasise again that it is important to note that this statement on the issue of taxation provisions has been made by the Labor Party. We should all be grateful to  Senator Ryan  for having made the position clear. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I rise to speak on this Bill because it has particular relevance to the Australian Capital Territory. The Canberra Commercial Development Authority is mentioned specifically in the Bill. That Authority has developed the Belconnen Shopping Mall which opened recently. It has provided important and improved shopping facilities in the Belconnen area of the Capital Territory. I make the point, in passing, that this development is a significant part of the Government's program to ensure improved facilities in the Belconnen region of the Capital Territory. 
A considerable program is under way to build roads such as Kuringa Drive; to upgrade the Barton Highway; the duplication of Ginninderra Drive, which has now commenced; to construct footpaths and drive strips and to undertake landscaping projects within the Belconnen area; to develop sporting and recreation areas, for example around Lake Ginninderra, and sporting facilities, such as tennis courts, pavilions at ovals and, significantly, heating for the Macquarie swimming pool, which is the only pool in the area; and to construct schools, such as those in Spence and the one now proposed for Fraser and the Catholic schools at Florey and Evatt. 
As I said, the Belconnen Shopping Mall is an important element in demonstrating the Government 's determination to improve facilities in the Belconnen area for the people of Belconnen. The present Federal Government has given substantial financial support to the Canberra Commercial Development Authority to further this objective and to ensure that the Belconnen Shopping Mall was completed. As I mentioned, it was opened recently. The Territory Authorities (Financial Provisions) Bill will make the Canberra Commercial Development Authority, the Canberra Showground Trust and the Poker Machine Licensing Board subject to Commonwealth taxation laws. It will make the Canberra 
Commercial Development Authority liable to pay income tax and sales tax. 
I raise this matter because this legislation, particularly its provisions relating to the Canberra Commercial Development Authority, has  recently  been subject to some discussion and a good deal of distortion in public debate, much of which I am afraid has been for what appears to be rather blatant political purposes. I refer particularly to statements made by the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  and the Labor Party Leader in the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. As I shall demonstrate, they referred to this matter in terms which are grossly inaccurate. In the other place recently the Labor Party shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  opened debate on this matter for the Opposition. I believe that he opened the debate in a basically reasonable way. I should like to quote some of his opening remarks. He said: 
Although there seems to be no hard and fast rule, in general it appears that statutory authorities established by this Parliament are subject to income tax and sales tax when they are engaged in commercial operations in competition with private enterprise. Thus such authorities as TAA, The Australian National Line and the Commonwealth Trading Bank are all subject to tax. We support the fact that they are so liable. 
I repeat that statement made by the honourable member for Gellibrand, the Labor shadow Treasurer 
We support the fact that they are so liable. 
He went on to say: 
In this way a competitive public enterprise can provide substantial benefits to the community, quite apart from its business role. 
I believe that that was a basically constructive approach. But he went on to state- I believe that he was putting the basic opposition of the Labor Party to this measure- what I believe to be some fundamental errors. He said: 
. by this Bill, the Federal Government will deprive a self-governing Australian Capital Territory of a potential substantial source of revenue by providing for the Canberra Commercial Development Authority in particular to become liable to both income tax and sales tax. 
He continued: 
If local governments in the States are exempt from tax on such enterprises, then there is clearly at least an arguable case for the same exemption to apply in the case of the Australian Capital Territory. 
He said that there was an arguable case, then he attempted to argue it. But the whole point is that his argument, the arguments used by the honourable member for Fraser and the argument used by the Labor Leader in the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly are based on a misapprehension of the distinctions between a local government body and an authority such as the Canberra Commercial Development Authority. 
It is my understanding that under section 23 (d) of the Income Tax Assessment Act a number of groups are exempted from income tax liability; among these are municipal corporations and local authorities. For example, in the debate in the other place the honourable member for Fraser referred to many such organisations- local government authoritieswhich are exempted from income tax liability. He and others referred to the Campbelltown shopping centre, which I understand is referred to as Glenquarrie. But the point about that shopping centre is that, as I understand it, it is part of the Campbelltown Council and it is the Council which is exempt from income tax liability and not the shopping centre per se. The shopping centre is exempt because it is part of the Council. 
I understand that it is this provision in section 23 (d) of the Income Tax Assessment Act which exempts many similar operations by local government authorities. I understand, from advice available to me, that it is impossible to tax this shopping centre because of the difficulty in drawing the distinction between the Council as a legal entity and the shopping centre, which is a part of that entity. The Canberra Commercial Development Authority is a legal entity in its own right. It competes with the private sector. It is not part of a local government authority which is exempt under section 23 (d ) of the Income Tax Assessment Act. I return to the first statement by the honourable member for Gellibrand to which I referred. He said: 
Although there seems to be no hard and fast rule, in general it appears that statutory authorities established by this Parliament are subject to income tax and sales tax when they are engaged in commercial operations in competition with private enterprise. Thus such authorities as TAA, the Australian National Line and the Commonwealth Trading Bank are all subject to tax. We support the fact that they are so liable. 
The Canberra Commercial Development Authority is just what its name suggests: It is an authority involved in development. It is developing a shopping centre in competition with two major developers with shopping centres here- the Monaro Mall and the Woden Plaza. 
Having said that, I think it is important to realise- one would never realise this from the speeches made by Labor members of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly or by Labor members in the other place- that the Canberra Commercial Development Authority was established and the terms and conditions of its establishment and operation were set down during the period of the Labor Government. I quote again from what the Labor shadow Minister said: 
It could be claimed, of course, that the Canberra Commercial Development Authority was in a privileged position because it received a no interest loan from the Australian Government to commence operations. That did not apply to the Campbelltown enterprise. 
There he was referring to Glenquarrie in Campbelltown. He continued: 
On the other hand, under section 19 of the ordinance establishing the Canberra Commercial Development Authority, it is provided that the Authority shall repay the capital in a manner stipulated by the Minister in consultation with the Treasurer and that it shall pay to the Australian Government such proportion of the profits as the Minister, in consultation with the Treasurer, determines. 
As he then said, that provision did not apply to the Campbelltown project. But from 1974 it did apply to the Canberra Commercial Development Authority. It did apply because that was the provision set down by the Labor Government. The Ordinance establishing the Authority came into effect on 1 October 1 974. It was made clear to those people involved, one of whom was the present Labor Party Leader in the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly, that the Authority would be subject to these taxes; yet the honourable member for Fraser in the debate on this matter in the other place said: 
. this enterprise should not pay tax. 
One can only ask: Where was he in 1974 when the Labor Government decided that the Canberra Commercial Development Authority would be subject to these taxes? The honourable member for Fraser went on to say: 
. I am quite sure that pressure- 
He was referring to pressure to tax the Canberra Commercial Development Authority- 
. came from the vested interests in Canberra- from the local Chamber of Commerce. 
One could take that as being an absurd statement, but it is difficult to do so because one would assume that the honourable member for Fraser would know what he is talking about. After all, it was an Australian Labor Party Government decision, made when he was a member of Parliament, to tax the Canberra Commercial Development Authority. The honourable member for Fraser goes on in his speech to reject the normal taxation provisions which apply to such developers and that is just what the Canberra Commercial Development Authority is. It is a developer and it ought to be subject to these taxes. The Labor Government in 1 974 told the Authority and all those involvedone such person was the present Labor leader in the Legislative Assembly- that the Authority would be subject to such taxes. The honourable member for Fraser also claims that the Authority received little support from the Government. I mention that it received $lm equity capital assistance and then it borrowed $32. 5m with the Treasurer's guarantee. That was provided under this Government. Of course, it might be noted that some private developers would no doubt like to have such provisions when they are seeking capital for development. 
There was a lot of talk of consultation here this evening and in another place when the debate proceeded there. It is very interesting to note what happened when the Labor Government was in office and when the Canberra Commercial Development Authority was created. There was no discussion in the Advisory Council, as it was then, and later in the Legislative Assembly about this matter. It was created by Executive decision by the Minister at the time and by the Governor-General. Yet we have the shadow Minister for the Capital Territory in another place saying that the Government seems to be acting with indecent haste in this matter. In 1974 there was no consultation by the Labor Government. At that time the Labor Government made it clear to those involved in the Canberra Commercial Development Authority that it would have to pay the taxes for which, under this legislation, it is made liable. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  made it clear in a statement on 7 March this year because of the local debate which was then ensuing about this matter. He stated:   . . no secret had been made of the fact that the Authority was to be liable to pay Commonwealth and Territory taxes. The  Chairman  of the Authority had been so advised when the Authority was first established in 1974 and subsequently. 
I would have thought that if the Labor Party shadow Minister was so concerned and interested about consultation and about the provisions now applying to the Canberra Commercial Development Authority he would have consulted the Labor leader in the Legislative Assembly or his colleague in another place, the honourable member for Fraser, because they were involved when these decisions were made. They know there was no consultation by the Labor Government at that time. They know or should know that at that time it was made clear to all those involved that the Authority would compete with private enterprise on an equal basis and that it would be susceptible to the charges which are now to be levied under this legislation, 
The statements of the Labor leader in the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly, to put it mildly, have been distortions. They have been misleading. One can only conclude that if those people are being honest in what they say then members of the Australian Labor Party in the Legislative Assembly and in this Parliament either do not know what their Party did or they are not prepared to admit it. The Minister for the Capital Territory said recently that this Bill, that is the one we are considering in the Senate tonight, would not alter the method by which the Authority's profits are disbursed. No changes have been proposed in that respect. This Government is pursuing policies in relation to the operation of the Canberra Commercial Development Authority which were introduced and implemented by the previous Government. The debate which occurred in the Legislative Assembly and the statements made by the Labor leader there and by the honourable member for Fraser in another place have been clearly misleading. I suspect that that represents an attempt by both those people to evade their responsibility in this matter. 
I made the point about consultation. There was no consultation whatever under Labor. The Authority was created entirely by Executive action in 1974. 1 have made the point about  Mr Fry's  allegations about vested interests. If this legislation has been introduced as a result of pressure from so-called vested interests, then presumably that is why the Authority was set up under the terms established in 1974. Where was  Mr Fry  then? I have also referred to other authorities like Trans-Australia Airlines and the Australian National Line. The fact is, as I understand it, that these authorities and the CCDA are distinct from local government authorities because of the nature of local councils and their related operations. The Labor Party established this Authority in 1974. It knew the terms under which the Authority was established. The leader of the Labor Party in the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly presumably knew those terms and that same person has been a member of that Authority. The honourable member for Fraser presumably knew the terms for the establishment of the Authority. One hopes that the Labor Party shadow Minister for the Capital Territory would have known them. If he does not know those terms one hopes that he will quickly familiarise himself with them. The Canberra Commercial Development Authority will operate and will pay taxes under the terms and conditions which were set down by the Labor Government. 
I believe that the debate and statements we have heard recently from Labor Party members in the Territory represent a deliberate attempt on their part to escape their responsibility and to avoid the embarrassment which they apparently feel because of what they did in 1974. Presumably they are embarrassed because of their failure to consult and because of their decision to impose taxes on the Canberra Commercial Development Authority. I conclude by saying that I strongly support the legislation. 1 believe that the Canberra Commercial Development Authority should compete on an equal basis with private enterprise. It has been known for about  Vh  years, as I understand it, that this would be the case. This legislation implements that decision and I strongly support it. 
I address to the Minister for Social Security a question concerning the family support services scheme about which announcements have been made recently. Will the scheme extend to the Australian Capital Territory? If so, what types of programs will be eligible for funding in the Territory? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
Do any centres, referred to in the Minister's statement of 10 February 1978, provide assistance for handicapped housewives, in the Australian Capital Territory; if so, what centres, and what facilities do they provide. 
I direct a question to  Senator Durack  in his capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer to a recent statement by the Minister for Industry and Commerce announcing the establishment of a Small Business Advisory Council. In that statement the Minister said that all States of the Commonwealth are represented on the Council. Can the Minister say whether the same applies to the Territories? If not, will he consider taking action to ensure that the Territories and small business interests in the Territories are directly represented on the Small Business Advisory Council? 
It is rarely that we see the sort of sanctimonious posturing and hear the nonsense from  Senator Wriedt  that we saw and heard this afternoon. Whilst we may be familiar enough with that sort of thing from  Senator Gietzelt  and  Senator Wheeldon,  who, as usual, got carried away with the flow of his rhetoric and thus distracted himself at times from accuracy, this is not usually the case with  Senator Wriedt.  I think it is necessary to begin by going over some of the background to this issue which has been obscured effectively in the statements made by Opposition senators this afternoon. It is essential that we look back, as they have done, to the events of 1975. 

 Senator Wriedt made a great deal of the fact that an Indonesian invasion occurred, as I understood what he said, on 13 December 1975. But he did not make the point that the Liberal and National Country Party Government at that time, on 12 December- that is the day beforesupported the United Nations' resolution, referred to by  Senator Gietzelt,  calling on the Indonesians to desist from military action and intervention in East Timor. In other words, we had taken action before that occurred.  Senator Wriedt  found it convenient to ignore the fact that not only did we act after the event, in fact we acted before it. Of course there was a great deal of preparation before the actual vote was taken in the United Nations. Much of the initiative on that resolution was taken by the Australian Government. Australia, through those measures, through those actions, was expressing its very clear and forceful concern to the Indonesian Government about the events which we believed were about to occur and some events which we knew, as the Labor Government knew, had occurred already. 
I think it is generally accepted that in September and October 1975 Indonesian activists were moving into East Timor, as were Indonesian regular troops. I refer to a statement in the Senate on 30 October 1975 by the then Labor Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Senator Willesee,  who said: 
The Government - 
That is, the Labor Government at that time- has viewed with concern widespread reports that Indonesia is involved in military intervention in Portuguese Timor. 
As  Senator Willesee  pointed out at that time, those reports were widespread. Where were the critics then? Where were the people raising this issue in this chamber and in the other place? Who was taking a stand for East Timor then? 
Were you? Later on in that statement,  Senator Willesee,  in referring to events in East Timor, said: 
It reflects - 
That is, the situation-  above all, the immaturity of Timor's own aspiring political leaders, who in less than eighteen months have succeeded in wrecking Portugal's decolonisation program, sharply polarising political opinions through the territory, and finally plunging the territory into violent civil war. 
There was a member of the Labor Government who had no hesitation in pinning the blame for events on the Timorese leaders. In his view it was apparently the immaturity and incapacity of Timorese leaders that led to the violence and bloodshed occurring in East Timor. It is clear in his statement that the then Government knew what was happening in East Timor, knew that Indonesian forces were already in Port Timor. One must ask: Where were these critics, these self-righteous critics, from the Labor benches then? I refer to a statement made on 21 May 1976 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  to the United Nations Association of Australia. In that statement he referred to the events of October 1975 and said: 
The pro-Indonesian parties, stiffened by Indonesian supportand indeed let it be said increasingly by assistance from the Indonesian regular forces- were able to re-establish a sense of control in these areas. 
He was referring to the border areas. It is well known- I think  Senator Gietzelt  in his statement conceded that it was known to the Labor Government- that Indonesian regular forces were in East Timor while the Labor Government was in power. 
One cannot disagree that the question of East Timor and policies towards Indonesia and East Timor are matters of public importance, but the wording is, I believe, fraudulent. It does not refer to the fact that the recognition that has been given is de facto and not de jure. Indeed,  Senator Wheeldon  from his remarks seems to have a remarkable lack of understanding of the distinction between de facto recognition and de jure recognition. As I understood him, insofar as that is possible, he was arguing that there is no difference. Of course, there is a quite fundamental difference. The point probably does not need to be laboured that when it was in power the Labor Government's approach to morality in politics and its concern for oppressed peoples was well demonstrated in the decision to accord de jure recognition to Soviet control over the Baltic States. But we tend to hear very little about that. The distinction between de jure control and de facto control in the case of East Timor is a matter of fundamental significance- one which, as I have already suggested, the matter of public importance does not refer to. It appears that  Senator Wheeldon  does not understand that fact. Surely it is an indisputable fact that Indonesia has essential control of the administrative centres, the urban centres and the administration of East Timor. I do not think anyone could fairly argue to the contrary. 
I want to refer briefly to the events of 1 974 and 1975. It has already been mentioned that in 1 974 the Labor Government clearly concurred in possible future Indonesian action to take over East Timor. But was the matter raised in this Parliament? When Ramos-Horta first came to this country the Labor Government would not speak to him. The matter was first raised in this Parliament not by those critics on the Labor benches from whom we hear so much now, but by the man who is now Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  in the House of Representatives in February 1975. He raised it as a matter of public importance because of concern that the people of East Timor might not be able to exercise selfdetermination and because of concern about what the Indonesian Government might contemplate in East Timor. The matter was first raised by the Liberal Party shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs at that time on the basis of concern about the people of East Timor. 
It is worth pointing out, as I have pointed out in this chamber before, that that matter of public importance was responded to on behalf of the Labor Government by its most junior Minister. The import of his remarks was that it was a pity that the Opposition had raised the matter because it might create difficulties in relations with Indonesia. That was the concern of the Labor Government. Where were the critics then? When did the same members of the Labor Party raise a matter of public importance in those days? When did they raise the issue then? When did they show their concern? Where were they in those days? Where was this high falutin morality that they now flaunt? 
I believe that the present Government has done everything possible in the circumstances.  Senator Gietzelt  referred to a resolution of the United Nations General Assembly on 12 December 1975. Australia took a prominent part in having that resolution passed in view of events in East Timor because of concern about what was happening there and what was intended to happen there. That resolution on 12 December 1975 deplored action that had been taken by Indonesia and called for the withdrawal of forces. On 23 December 1975 in the United Nations Security Council, Australia took the initiative in action pass a resolution in similar terms which appointed a special representative of the Secretary-General to look at the situation in East Timor.  Senator Gietzelt,  having taken the discussion that far, then fails to attempt any analysis of why more effective action was not subsequently taken by the United Nations. But it is an important question.  Senator Gietzelt  refers to the fact that prompt action has been taken in other areas such as the Middle East and the Lebanon. Why was it not taken in East Timor? Because there was not the will in the United Nations. Despite every effort on the part of Australia and the initiatives that it took there simply was not the will amongst the other member nations to take action in this case. 
The Government's aims have been to achieve a withdrawal of forces and self-determination for the East Timorese. But the most fundamental thing to achieve is the alleviation of the suffering of the East Timorese people. We have tried to ensure that the International Committee of the Red Cross will be permitted to go back into East Timor. We have tried and to some extent have succeeded in having aid sent to the East Timorese and we have sought above all the reunification of East Timorese families. As  Senator Kilgariff  has said, there are more than 2,000 East Timorese people in Australia. It has been suggested that almost the same number of people want to come to Australia to be reunited with their families.  Senator Missen  and  Senator Button  have raised that matter recently in the Senate. I believe that it is a matter to which we must give the highest priority. As pointed out by  Senator Missen  and  Senator Button,  these people are distressed. Families have been broken up; they wish to be re-united. 
It is my view- I believe there is plenty of evidence for it- that the present Government has done everything possible through international action and bilateral negotiation. We have sought support from other countries but have received little from the areas where we might have expected it. The outcome, if we pursue the matter further, seems to me to be either intervention in some form by Australia- surely that is abhorrent to every Australian- or a break in relations with Indonesia or both. It can be well imagined what a break in relations with Indonesia might mean to Australia and to the East Timorese people who are in this country now and who want to be reunified with their families. 
We then must ask: What has the de facto recognition achieved? Only today there have been Press reports stating that the Indonesian Government, because the Australian Government has accorded de facto recognition to its control of East Timor, is prepared to re-open negotiations on the reunification of East Timorese families. 
-But it had not done it. This is the very point, which the honourable senator is prepared to ignore. It had not done it; it was holding off doing it. We were hoping that by continuing pressure we might be able to have the Indonesian Government concede something in relation to the reunification of families. We now find that because of the action we have taken it has agreed to open negotiations on the reunification of families. I believe that that is a quite fundamental achievement. Certainly, for more than 2,000 people in this country it is important. If honourable senators opposite regard that as a worthless achievement I think they ought to tell those people in Melbourne, to whom  Senator Button  and  Senator Missen  spoke, that they do not accept their need and their distress, that they consider other things more important than that. 
I believe that it is a significant achievement. Because we have shown to the Indonesians that we accept a fact- it is nothing more than the acceptance of an indisputable fact- the Indonesian Government is now prepared to reopen the way to the reunification of families and the ending of their distress. Hopefully it will lead to other things. It might provide us with avenues to get aid to the people of East Timor, alleviate their suffering and allow the International Committee of the Red Cross back into the area. Perhaps all of us could do something more to heal the wounds of a tragic war. No doubt we would all have liked to have done more to prevent it. We did not prevent it. We tried everything that was sensibly and reasonably possible as a government. We have now taken another step which, I believe, has already resulted in a significant development. We can now hope to take this further and achieve more for the people of East Timor. Surely that is what it is all about. Surely we are trying to do something to help the people of East Timor. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he will examine the possibility of action in co-operation with the States and Territories to ban the sale, possession and use of hand guns except by certain organisations and law enforcement and other similar agencies. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
What action has been taken by the Government to develop 'a national philosophy which mobilises public opinion to recognise the discrimination suffered by the handicapped in our midst; a philosophy which motivates employers, trade unionists, the man in the street to play a role in overcoming barriers which continue to deny the handicapped many of the fundamental human rights', in view of the Minister's speech at Manila, in January 1978, concerning legislation for the handicapped in Australia, and the Minister's reference to services for 'severely disabled persons of working age '. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 14 March 1 978: 
Will the Minister give details of: (a)  Major new  programs; (b) any great expansion of funds available to organisations; (c) increased rehabilitation services provided by the Commonwealth; and (d) any increase in pensions and benefitsparticularly those relating to handicapped people- which have been provided by the Government, in view of the Minister's speech at Manila, in January 1978, concerning legislation for the handicapped in Australia, and the Minister's reference to services for 'severely disabled persons of working age'. 
I think  Senator Wriedt  has demonstrated amply in his comments the complexity of this legislation, and I must say that I share some of his concern. One notes that the National Roads and Motorists Association recently produced a document on car insurance in plain English, and even the Bible has been translated into plain English. One hopes that the next step will be to produce legislation in plain English. This is extraordinarily complex legislation, partly because it deals with the remarkably complex question of superannuation and partly because it deals with a range of technical and, in most cases, machinery amendments. In one sense, perhaps we at least should pay tribute to the people who drafted it for their understanding of this legislation, on the assumption that they do understand every feature of it. As  Senator Wriedt  has pointed out, the Bill comprises 42 pages and some of the amendments contained in it are extraordinarily complex and difficult. However, as I have pointed out, most of them in fact are technical. 
I will refer back quickly to the fact that in the second reading speech in 1 976 the Minister who introduced the Superannuation Bill pointed out that should any shortcomings emerge in the legislation that had been introduced and was subsequently passed the Government would take action to remedy those shortcomings, where appropriate. The purpose of this legislation is to remedy anomalies that have arisen in the application of the 1976 Superannuation Act, and it is salutary to remember that the superannuation scheme introduced in 1976 was in fact a highly simplified scheme relative to the one that had been in operation. The problems we all have with the legislation again emphasise the complexity of the subject. 
I do not think that there is any need to go over the important innovations in the original legislation of 1 976- for example, the introduction of a uniform 5 per cent contribution provision with an option to contribute to up to 10 per cent, a wide range of new benefits, and some special provisions important to temporary employees, women and the handicapped. The new scheme in 1976 was a simplified scheme and one that contained a number of important innovations. The legislation before us now is designed to correct some of the anomalies and, in some respects, to improve that original legislation where difficulties have occurred either in application or in interpretation. I think it is worth making the point at the outset that the new legislation does not affect any of the benefits provided for Commonwealth employees in the 1976 legislation and no additional significant costs to the Commonwealth are involved in the new legislation. 
I refer very briefly to a couple of the major amendments contained in the Bill. First of all the Bill corrects in the Superannuation Act 1 922 an anomaly relating to benefit entitlements of children of contributors who died in service before 1 July 1976. Clause 6 of the Bill provides, for example, that children of deceased contributors, where the children are aged 21 to 25 and are undertaking full-time education, will now be entitled to benefits in the same circumstances as the children of pensioners who died prior to 1 July 1976. Whilst that is obviously a very important amendment, and important to a number of individuals in the community, it emphasises the extent to which in the course of time anomalies have appeared. This legislation is designed to overcome those sorts of anomalies. 
As pointed out in the Minister's second reading speech, the amending legislation also amends the 1976 Act in a number of ways. For example, in clause 42 of the Bill there is an amendment that provides for the apportionment of a spouse's benefit according to relative needs where a deceased contributor is survived by more than one eligible spouse. This is an amendment to section 1 10 of the 1976 Superannuation Act. It is intended to confirm the Government's original intentions and it has become necessary to write that section in greater detail. It ensures equity under the provisions of section 1 10 and also now provides for the further apportionment of benefits to surviving children. Once again that is a significant reform, one that is obviously important to many individuals within the community and one which corrects an anomaly in the legislation. 
I refer also to another amendment to the 1976 Act. That Act presently does not allow a member of the scheme or the spouse of a deceased member to alter a decision that had been made for a particular form of benefit once it has been made- for example, the election between a lump sum benefit and the payment of pension. The Commissioner for Superannuation has received requests from time to time to reverse a decision to take a lump sum instead of a contributorfinanced pension. The Government has now agreed as the Minister pointed out in her second reading speech, that in some circumstances it should be possible to cancel some such decisions- - for example, where it is apparent that at the time of the decision all the relevant information was not available to the person who had to make the decision. 
The Bill also includes an amendment to provide for three months in which the person may make the decision instead of one month. I understand that the one-month period has been found in many cases to be too brief. Of course, it is often the case that people are facing bereavement, and to make what are often very complex decisions about financial matters such as this becomes very difficult in such a short period. To provide three months is appropriate and a sensible amendment in the interests of people who need to make those decisions. Obvisously it needs to be administered flexibly so as to provide the most humane administration of the legislation which relates in those circumstances to people who may be facing personal difficulties. 
In conclusion I mention just two or three things. It is important to note that there was some concern last year that the Government-financed portion of Commonwealth employees' superannuation pensions might be brought up to date in accordance with average weekly earnings or the consumer price index, whichever was less. It has now been confirmed by the Minister- this legislation also confirms it in that it does not include provisions- that the existing situation will not be changed. I hope that those who were concerned that there might be a change from the consumer price index criterion to average weekly earnings will be reassured first of all by the Minister's confirmation of the situation and by the fact that this amending legislation has been presented and that the alleged changes to the use of average weekly earnings as a criterion are not included in it. Let me also make the point that it would seem, because of the great complexity - 
It was alleged that it would be applied to the Government-financed portion of the pension. 
-No. The point I was making was that the CPI will be applied to the Government-financed portion whereas it had been suggested that it might be the CPI or average weekly earnings, whichever was less. The Minister has confirmed that it will remain the CPI, as it is now. That relates to the Government financed portion of the pension. 
I mentioned in my speech  on  the original Superannuation Bill of 1976 that some consideration ought to be given to one group which seems to me to be disadvantaged under this legislation. That group is not dealt with in the amending legislation now before the Senate. I refer to divorced spouses of deceased contributors where a contributor had remarried. The divorced spouse, who may have been married to the contributor for many years and thereby has clearly contributed to the ultimate benefits, even if indirectly, receives no benefit. In many cases that has caused considerable hardship to people known to me. There is recognition in the legislation that a spouse does contribute indirectly to the benefits to be gained by the contributor. That is recognised in that benefits can be apportioned between a legal spouse and a de facto spouse after the death of a contributor. The fact that that is recognised, that there is provision in section 1 10 for the apportionment of benefits on a relative needs basis by the Commissioner for Superannuation, seems to me to indicate that very close consideration ought to be given to similar benefits for divorced spouses along with the legal spouse in the case of a deceased contributor. 
Yes, it can, but there are limits to that particular avenue. It is one that  Senator Walters  and I have examined in considerable detail. We have sought advice through the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and we feel that there is a need for some provision in this legislation to ensure that the interests of individuals in these cases are protected, because as far as we are able to ascertain they are not fully protected under the provisions of the Family Law Act. 

 -No, Senator, that is not my understanding. I believe that in the Superannuation Act if there is a situation in which under other laws such as the Family Law Act a person is left in a clearly disadvantaged position despite the fact that he or she may have contributed, even indirectly, over many years to the benefits which that spouse assumes would be available- if necessary on the ground of relative needs, as is the existing case for a legal spouse and de facto spouse- there should be some similar provision for a former spouse, a divorced person, and the legal spouse at the time of death or subsequent to the death of the contributor. I raise the point on this occasion because, as  Senator Wriedt  has pointed out clearly, the whole question is enormously complex. It seems to me to be one area in which we could give some consideration to possible further amendment to the Superannuation Acts to ensure equity for all involved. It may be that what I am suggesting is not necessary. But it is something that I would like to see dealt with fully and examined in the greatest possible detail. 
As has been pointed out this is complex legislation dealing with a very complex issue. It is an issue that very few people have time or leisure to address themselves to in any detail. The legislation, now an Act of considerable importance and length, is amended by a Bill of equal importance, of considerable length and of great complexity. It seems to me to be important that we should try to produce this and other legislation in a form more readily understandable to those people who may be affected by it. I suggest to the Minister that we might consider reprinting all the legislation, as amended, applying to superannuation for Commonwealth employees so that it is readily available and readily accessible in appropriate form to them. 
In closing, I say that despite all the problems and despite the fact that there may be other areas that need to be considered, I think that this is important legislation which introduces further important reforms. It certainly clears up a number of anomalies which have emerged in the existing legislation. My understanding is that it will be a continuing process in this very complex field to ensure that the anomalies and difficulties that arise will be covered in the future. I think that this is legislation which is important to all Commonwealth employees. Because of the enormous complexity of the area, it is commendable that it should have been introduced as rapidly as it has. I strongly support the legislation. 
I take the opportunity to raise again with the Minister for Social Security  Senator Guilfoyle)  the matter which is effected in part by clause 42 of the Bill and section 1 10 of the existing Act. It relates to the proposition I had raised in the course of the second reading debate concerning divorced spouses of deceased contributors. In doing so, I refer to the  Australian Law Journal  of October 1 977. Under the heading 'Current Topics' is an item which deals with this issue. I draw the Minister's attention to a statement by the then Attorney-General in May 1977 when he said: 
We are just at the beginning in relation to the working out of family law, not just in relation to the terms of an appropriate Family Law Act, but also in relation to its effects and implications in other areas of law and administration, such as social services. It is a basic problem. It is basic to our society. 
In this article in the  Australian Law Journal  the writer points out: 
The point is that the Superannuation Act makes no provision whatever for any payment to a divorced wife upon the death of her ex-husband contributor- only for payments to a legal wife, such as the woman whom the deceased remarried, or to a de facto wife. 
The same article goes on later- this is the significant element and it relates also to the comments made by  Senator Coleman  earlier when I probably did not deal adequately with the points she raised- to state: 
The Family Law Court has no power to deal with payments to be made under the Superannuation Act after the  death of the particular contributor concerned; such payments are solely governed by the provisions of the Superannuation Act. 
-It is an article entitled Current Topics' in the  Australian Law Journal  of October 1977. I seek the indulgence of the Senate to have this page and a half of the  Australian Law Journal  incorporated in  Hansard  so that the full text of the article is available. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Unfair treatment by Superannuation Act 1976 (Cth) of wives of contributors divorced under Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) 
In an address delivered at Melbourne on 17 May 1977 on the occasion of opening new Family Court premises there, the then Commonwealth Attorney-General  (Mr R. J. Ellicott, Q.C.)  made reference to the impact upon society of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) as follows: 'We are just at the beginning in relation to the working out of family law, not just in relation to the terms of an appropriate Family Law Act, but also in relation to its effects and implications in other areas of law and administration, such as social services. It is a basic problem. It is basic to our society. ' 
One of the most serious repercussions of the operation of the Family Law Act has been the creation of a new disadvantaged minority, namely divorced wives, and more particularly those divorcees who unfortunately happen to be the ex-wives of deceased contributors under the Superannuation Act 1976 (Cth), which constitutes the new superannuation scheme affecting the hundreds of thousands of Commonwealth public servants in Australia, and which will also be a pace-setter for other superannuation schemes, both new and revised. 
At the root of the matter lies the concept of no-fault divorce reflected in the Family Law Act, more especially in s. 48. This concept was described succinctly by the then Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  as follows in an address delivered at the 'Women- Today and Tomorrow' Seminar held at Castle Hill, Sydney, on 13 August 1977: 'A fundamental change has been the abolition of fault as an element in marital breakdown. The new Act replaced the fourteen grounds of divorce under the old Matrimonial Causes Act 1959 with one single ground- irretrievable breakdown of the marriage evidenced by separation for twelve months. ' 
That either party to a marriage, thus subject of an irretrievable breakdown, can proceed to a divorce in the Family Court of Australia by a relatively painless path, and, depending on the venue, within days untie the marital knot by a tenminute hearing before a Family Court judge has been a matter of comment not only in the local press, but in overseas newspapers (see, for example, article bearing the title, 'NoFault Divorce Law in Australia', in the  New York Times,  7 May 1977). However, as pointed out in the monthly publication of the International Labour Office (ILO), The World of Labour and Development (issue of September 1977, Geneva), 'often the heaviest cross is borne by divorced women ' under systems of dissolution of marriage in which fault plays no role or only an increasingly residual part (ibid., p. 13). 
It is this possibility of obtaining relatively speedy no-fault divorces under the Family Law Act 1 975 that nas created the problem affecting superannuation rights of divorced wives as dependants under the Superannuation Act 1976 ( C,h). A middle-aged or elderly Commonwealth public servant, entitled to superannuation, may engage in a relationship outside the marriage, leading to its irretrievable breakdown if he has lived apart from his legal wife for twelve months or over, so that he can immediately, irrespective of that wife's wishes, obtain a divorce and remarry. The point is that the Superannuation Act makes no provision whatever for any payment to a divorced wife upon the death of her ex-husband contributoronly for payments to a legal wife, such as the woman whom the deceased remarried, or to a de facto wife. On her ex-husband 's death, the surviving divorced wife, who may have lived with him for a period between twenty and thirty years, while he was contributing and building up superannuation entitlements, will be entitled to nothing under the Superannuation Act, while the second wife, who may have lived with the deceased for only one year or two years, will as his surviving legal wife receive the whole of what would otherwise have gone to the divorced wife had a divorce under the Family Law Act not been obtained by the deceased. There is no provision in the Superannuation Act for apportionment between a divorced wife and the surviving legal widow, although curiously enough s. 1 10 enables an apportionment to be made between a surviving legal widow and a surviving de facto wife. The Family Law Court has no power to deal with payments to be made under the Superannuation Act after the death of the particular contributor concerned; such payments are solely governed by the provisions of the Superannuation Act. 
The utter injustice to divorced wives of this position under the Superannuation Act hardly requires stressing. It cannot be maintained that apportionment by the Commissioner as between the divorced wife and the legal wife would not be practicable or viable, because s. 1 10 reflects the legislature's view that apportionment is practicable and viable as between a surviving legal widow and a surviving de facto wife. Indeed the absence of provision for a divorced wife in the Superannuation Act is inconsistent with the approach of the legislature in s. 79 (4) (B) of the Family Law Act, under which, in proceedings relating to the property of parties to divorce proceedings, such as the matrimonial home, the Family Law Court is enjoined to take cognisance of the contribution made directly or indirectly to the acquisition, conservation or improvement of the property by either party, including any contribution made in the capacity of home maker or parent; a wife who has lived for many years with a contributor under the Commonwealth superannuation scheme may be said to have contributed as a homemaker to the building up of her husband 's entitlements. The approach in the Superannuation Act is inconsistent with the general principle of the law of civilised nations of respect for vested rights. 
It is also paradoxical that the legislature, which has purported to make provision for a no-fault, no-guilt divorce in the Family Law Act 1975, should by the absence of the necessary provision for a divorced wife in the Superannuation Act 1976 virtually penalise her as though she were the guilty party. This is discrimination in favour of the second wife; but, in the light of s. 110, there is no equivalent discrimination in favour of the legal wife where the contributor has died before a remarriage with the de facto wife. 
As pointed out in two excellent articles on the whole subject by Gwendoline Wilson (see the articles entitled 'Discrimination over marital status in Superannuation' in the  Canberra Times  14 and 15 September 1977), an important practical point, among others, is that statistically wives outlive husbands by a number of years, so that the position is most serious for divorced wives faced with the prospect that, upon the death of the ex-husband contributor, they will become disinherited of any right to a spouse's pension under the Superannuation Act. 
This legislative injustice under the Superannuation Act is one which can only be remedied by amendments to that Act enabling some form of apportionment to be made by the Commissioner or other officer as between a divorced wife and a surviving legal widow, having regard commensurately to the duration of the former's marriage to the deceased, and to other relevant considerations. As the matter is one of some complexity, it is suggested that the Commonwealth Government should, in the first instance, appoint a committee of appropriate composition to investigate the matter and advise what amendments should be made to the Superannuation Act for providing for such  apportionment 
I noted the comments of the Minister for Social Security in responding to the second reading debate in which she indicated that this matter had not been dismissed and that it was possibly one for continuing consideration. I simply ask that it be given serious consideration in view of what seems to be a limitation in the application of the Family Law Act and what is acknowledged to be a limitation in the Superannuation Act. I ask that it be considered so that the sorts of problems to which the former Attorney-General referred in May 1 977 might be overcome and so that what seems to me to be the problems of one group which has been specifically disadvantaged by the inadequacies of the provisions of the Superannuation Acts and by the amending Bill now before the Senate can be overcome. 
I do not wish to delay the Committee, but I want to raise with the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  a matter which might best be resolved by her passing some inquiries on to the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson).  I am a little confused whether consideration of this matter has been finalised. My understanding initially was that it had not been finalised and that it would be considered further. Now I am not quite clear whether the prospect of further consideration of the matter is open. 
I also raise the matter of cost. As the Minister has pointed out, there would be no additional cost in the division of benefits between a legal and a de facto spouse. In fact, under section 1 10 of the 1976 Act one amount of money would be divided between two recipients on the basis of relative needs. It would seem to me that if the amount were divided up between a previously legal spouse that is, a divorced person- and an existing legal or de facto spouse the same result would be obtained, namely, the division of an existing amount between two people. Therefore, there would not be any additional costs. I concede there might be some administrative costs. I might be wrong but it seems to me that there would be no additional cost and that in fact the same amount of benefit would be divided up between two people. I should be interested to hear the Minister's comments, though, as I said previously, it might more readily be passed on to the Minister for Finance for some consideration. 

 Senator Walters dealt with the matter of dependency being overriden in the clause which provides for a widow to retain her pension on remarriage. That, together, with the provisions contained in section 110 of the original Act, which are covered in clause 42 of the amending Bill, refer to the division of benefits on the basis of relative need. It would seem to me that a similar formula in relation to relative need might apply, given the assumptions which seem to me also to be contained in the sections of the Act which deal with the benefit being retained by a widow who remarries. So in addition to these specific issues I raise with the Minister the general question of whether this matter is open for further consideration. 
SenatorGUILFOYLE  (Victoria-Minister for Social Security) ( 10.22)- I think that all matters covered by any Act or any Bill can always be the subject of further consideration from time to time. I do not suggest that these matters are not capable of being considered, discussed or investigated. I simply made the point earlier that it was not that this matter had been excluded from consideration, but rather that it had been considered and was not thought fit to be included. The situation with regard to divorced spouses is not very clear to me. I think I should have this matter investigated and have an answer given to  Senator Knight  on the proposal he has put. I simply made the point that the widow who would be sharing with a de facto spouse would be someone who would be in receipt of a benefit. The divorced spouse might be someone who had been divorced a number of years previously and who did not draw an entitlement under the Act at the time. I made the point of the sharing of one benefit only between those widows and de facto wives who might have some claims on the basis of need. It does seem that we are into an area of fairly complex discussion. I think I should note what has been raised by  Senator Knight  and by other honourable senators and have answers given to them with regard to any matters which have not been adequately covered in my remarks on payments to more than one wife or dependant. I do not think I have anything further which I can usefully add to what I have said already. 
I have an amendment to clause 61, which reads in part: 
1 ) Section 1 54 of the principal Act is repealed and the following section is substituted; 
For the purposes of such a review, the Tribunal shall, subject to sub-sections 21 (1 A ) and 23(1) of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975, be constituted by a presidential member and 2 non-presidential members, one of whom shall be an eligible employee or a pensioner. ' 
I move: 
In proposed section 154 (7), leave out 'one of whom shall be an eligible employee or a pensioner', insert 'of whom at least one shall be an eligible employee or a pensioner, or by 3 non-presidential members, of whom at least one shall be an eligible employee or a pensioner and at least one shall be a senior non-presidential member'. 
Clause 6 1 of the Bill remakes section 1 54 of the Superannuation Act 1976 to take account of the 1977 changes to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975. The clause requires that all tribunals hearing appeals against decisions of the Commissioner for Superanuation should consist of a presidential member of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and two non-presidential members. However, such a requirement is considered inappropriate in that many superannuation appeals would not warrant the presence of a presidential member. Also, because of the work load of a presidential member, delays in the hearing of superannuation appeals could occur. The amendment would overcome these problems. In addition, it would leave the past composition of tribunals unchanged. The Government is satisfied that the interests of the Commonwealth would be sufficiently protected, notwithstanding that under the amendment a senior non-presidential member may be a member of the superannuation scheme. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report adopted. 
I ask the Minister for Administrative Services whether he can say what progress has been made by the Commonwealth Police in their investigations into the discovery of a bomb in the vicinity of the Indian High Commission on 25 March. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs concerning the discussions yesterday between the Federal Government and the Government of Queensland about the Aboriginal communities of Aurukun and Mornington Island. Can the Minister confirm that if the proposed legislation and lease arrangements do not meet the wishes of the Aboriginal people of Aurukun and Mornington Island and if no acceptable arrangements- that is, acceptable to the Aboriginal people of the two settlements- can be reached, the Commonweatlh will acquire the land to ensure self-management of Aurukun and Mornington Island by the Aboriginal people? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, relates to the location of units of the Public Service in the Australian Capital Territory and in particular the Division of National Mapping. I ask the Minister: Is it not a fact that the Division of National Mapping which is currently located in Queanbeyan and which was located there temporarily, is to be transferred to Belconnen in the Australian Capital Territory in order to be closer to other relevant units of the Public Service? Will the Minister indicate progress towards finalising this arrangement? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
How many 'severely disabled' persons are there in Australia who are: (a) physically handicapped; (b) visually handicapped; and (c) intellectually handicapped, in view of the Minister's speech at Manila, in January 1978, concerning legislation for the handicapped in Australia, and the Minister's reference to services for 'Severely disabled persons of working age'. 
I  present the following petition from 1 30 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of the Commonwealth in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
. We support the construction of the City Bus Interchange as part of the plan to upgrade Canberra's public transport system. 
The facility will provide bus users with long overdue protection from Canberra's extreme climate. 
It will also provide an information bureau and other amenities for bus users and drivers. 
That the proposed site at the corner of London Circuit and Northbourne Avenue is the most central for the majority of bus users. 
The site also gives the speediest bus access to Northbourne Avenue, the major traffic artery. 
It is envisaged that the Interchange, by encouraging greater use of public transport, will help to reduce car congestion, noise and exhaust pollution in Civic. 
We support first class landscaping around the buildings to ensure they blend in with the present environment. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate take urgent action on the construction of the City Bus Interchange. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Education whether he has seen a report in yesterday's Melbourne's  Sun  entitled: 'Parents: Let us choose the school'. Also, is it a fact that the  President  of the Victorian Federation of State School Parents Clubs is reported to have said that students should be able to attend a government school of their choice, and urged reconsideration of zoning policies for government schools in that State? Will the Minister inform the Senate of the situation in the Australian Capital Territory with respect to choice for parents of schools for the education of their children? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer concerning sales tax on the Optacon, which is a device for assisting the visually handicapped in reading. I know that many specified items that are used for the sole purpose of assisting visually handicapped people are exempted from sales tax. These include braille machines, braille watches and talking books. I raised this question previously and was told that it was being examined. I now ask whether the Minister can say what stage has been reached in considering the exemption from sales tax of the Optacon, which is for use only by the visually handicapped? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs. It concerns the Kippax Library in the Australian Capital Territory for which the building and physical facilities have been available for some time. Can the Minister indicate why that library is not yet open and when it might open to the public? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security whether she can indicate what progress has been made on the proposals to establish a national institute on mental retardation in Australia? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. I refer to the special provision of English language teachers to meet the language needs of migrant children in the Australian Capital Territory. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the position of Australian Capital Territory child migrant education programs, particularly as to whether adequate numbers of such teachers are available and whether the provision of facilities for teaching English as a second language in the Australian Capital Territory are adequate for migrant children? 
I bring up the report from the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on the sixty-fifth series of variations for the plan and layout of the city of Canberra and environs. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement in relation to the report. 
Leave granted. 

 - Mr President, the report that I have just tabled is the first report to the present Parliament by the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. It concerns proposals to vary the Canberra city plan. This is the sixty-fifth series of such variations made to the plan since its adoption in 1925. The Committee report provides information about the proposals contained in the instrument of variation of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott).  These inquiries on variations are becoming increasingly important to the Australian Capital 
Territory community. As the city and its population grow, the planning and development proposals of the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Capital Territory tend to affect existing communities more directly than in the past when most development related to rural areas and did not affect the established communities. 
The Committee sees it as essential, therefore, that it consult the community and obtain views on proposals but forward by the authorities. The Minister for the Capital Territory has cooperated in this regard and in the case of the sixty-fifth series of variations has extended the period within which objections might be lodged from 14 days to 21 days. The extended period meant that the Lands, Planning and Environment Committee of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly had time to complete its own examination of the proposals and to report to the Assembly. The Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory thus had the advantage of an Assembly view when considering the sixty-fifth series. The Committee has also modified its own procedures to ensure greater publicity for the proposals contained in the series. It now conducts public hearings when officers from the Department of the Capital Territory and the National Capital Development Commission and those people who have lodged objections appear to make submissions to the Committee in an open forum. Inspections of the sites where controversial developments are proposed were also undertaken by the Committee. The Committee will continue to seek to involve the community further in its examination of such proposals. 

 Mr President, the Committee is equally concerned that the authorities should consult individuals and communities affected by their proposals. In the current series, for instance, the Committee has recommended that two items be deferred until certain aspects have been taken up with the communities involved. The first of these involves the proposed group centre in the Belconnen suburb of Kaleen. The Committee considers that when retail centres are being planned, after local communities have become established, there should be consultation and liaison with the communities from the earliest stages of planning. The newly formed residents' association in Kaleen raised a number of pertinent objections to the proposal for the group centre as presented in the series. We have recommended that implementation of the proposal be deferred pending further consultation with this group and others who are affected. 
A proposal that would have enabled boom gate parking to be installed in the city centre near Marcus Clarke Street and Childers Street has also been recommended by the Committee for deferral. The National Capital Development Commission submitted that implementation would have meant that it could establish boom gate parking in the area when the need arises. The Committee considers that this proposal should be deferred until the need has in fact been more clearly established. We have also sought from the National Capital Development Commission a full report on future development proposals for the recreation area associated with Ginninderra Creek. This is one of the most important recreation areas on the north side of Canberra and the Committee is concerned about its preservation as an area for recreational use and that it should not be affected adversely by further residential development. It has therefore sought from the Commission a full report on developments proposed for the area. This arose in connection with proposals for new housing in Latham which have caused concern to local groups because of encroachment on the existing recreational area. The committee has agreed to the variations proposed but has expressed the view that no development in relation to these and related areas should proceed until a detailed plan of the whole area has been published. 
The work done by the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory at times results in differences with groups of residents who object to proposals which the Committee considers, after examination and in the wider interests, should be implemented. We have endorsed two proposals in the current series in the face of strong objections from local residents. One relates to the proposed access road to the Kambah Pool and the other to a proposed development for 35 detached housing blocks in section 266, Kambah. Our reasons for upholding the proposed variations are explained in our report. But in each case we have sought to ensure that there is continuing consultation between residents and relevant authorities so that people affected by the proposed variations can be assured that their views will be heard on important issues as development proceeds. Other major items which are dealt with in the current series and our report include proposals for the establishment of a new residental area in Isaacs and substantial residential developments in Holt and Florey.  Major roadworks  include the reconstruction, realignment and upgrading of Fairbairn Avenue and the realignment of Majura Road and of the Paddys River road to the Tidbinbilla 
Nature Reserve. I commend the report to the Senate. 
I present the following petition from 234 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That Item 6469 of the Standard Medical Benefits Table is the means by which payment is made for the slaughter of thousands of unborn babies every year. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government should ensure that Item 6469 is removed from the standard Medical Benefits Table. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Human Rights in the Ukraine 
I present the following petition from 442 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That Ukraine, a nation of some 50 million people, is deprived of those national and individual rights and human freedoms which are deemed sacred in Australia. 
Those who have the courage to speak out in defence of national and human rights in the Ukraine are dealt with by the Moscow government in a manner which is abhorrent to every freedom-minded Australian. 
The most recent manifestations of these repressions is the sentencing, in March of this year, of Myroslav Marynovych and Mykola Matusevych, two young intellectuals, to 12 years of imprisonment and exile for their membership of the Ukranian Public Group to Promote the Implementation of the Helsinki Accords. 
In view of the fact that in similar cases in the past, intercession by Western Governments and professional groups has alleviated the severity of such sentences, your petitioners most humbly pray that the Honourable Senators in Parliament assembled forthwith take steps to: 
Condemn the use of prisons, prison camps, Siberian exile, drug therapy and psychiatric institutions in order to silence views which differ to those of the Soviet Regime. 
Intercede specifically on behalf of Marynovych and Matusevych whose sentences can still be reviewed by the Soviet Government. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I refer to correspondence, particularly from the Victorian Council for Handicapped Readers, proposing amendments to the Copyright Act to provide for a compulsory licence scheme to enable the reproduction of works for classroom use or for distribution to handicapped readers, especially visually and physically handicapped people. Has the Victorian Council for Handicapped Readers indicated that there is difficulty for organisations such as itself in readily obtaining permission from authors and publishers to reproduce copyright material? Has it therefore sought an amendment to the Copyright Act? Is further consideration being given to amendment to the Copyright Act? Can the Minister say what stage has been reached in this consideration? 
I wish to bring to the attention of the Senate, particularly the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  an issue which I believe raises many fundamental questions which need to be addressed with some urgency because of a particular situation which has arisen. The general issue relates to such fundamental matters as the rights of individuals to belong or not belong to a particular organisation or association and to contribute or not contribute to an organisation's actions and policies, thereby supporting it directly or indirectly or to make the decision if they wish not to do so. It relates also to such fundamental issues as the freedom of association with particular causes which may be seen to be worthy or the decision not to associate with causes which might be considered unworthy. It is out of those general issues that a specific situation has arisen at the Austraiian National University which needs to be drawn to the attention of the Senate, particularly the Minister for Education. I believe it is a matter to which he must address himself. 
This specific situation as I understand it is that students at the Australian National University have to pay fees of $19 to be members of the student association. Of that$19, the sum of $2.50 in effect becomes a contribution to the Australian Union of Students. I understand that some students on the campus have objected to contributing directly in this way to the Australian Union of Students and feel that they cannot in conscience make that contribution. They take that stand because they believe that some of the policies pursued and actions taken by the Australian Union of Students are such that they cannot support them. I draw the attention of the Minister for Education to a judgment delivered in November 1977 in the Supreme Court of Victoria which related to the use of funds by the Australian Union of Students. I refer to two sections of that judgment to illustrate the problem which I believe has arisen for these people. The judgment stated: 
The intended use of the Union's money was for the production and dissemination of political propaganda which was directed to form a body of opinion amongst students of tertiary institutions and within the community at large to support its objective . . . Neither the dissemination of nor the indoctrination by political propaganda can fairly and reasonably be said to form part of the educational process. 
It is my understanding that it is that problem and the irrelevance of these issues, indeed the inappropriateness of the issues that AUS has taken up in some instances, that has led to the objection in conscience by some students at the university to seeing $2.50 of their $19 fee to the student association in effect being transferred to the Australian Union of Students. It is worth recalling also that the Council of the University has previously recorded its opinion that the maintenance of effective associations relating to student affairs is a university purpose and that a compulsory financial contribution for the purpose of those associations is essential to their efficiency. The issue is the purpose to which those contributions are put, the actions which they, in fact, support and whether they are relevant to the process of education, which obviously is the primary purpose of the tertiary institution. 
I understand that three students in particular have indicated that they cannot in conscience contribute the $2.50 which would go to the Australian Union of Students. I also understand that they have been told that the grounds for their objections are unacceptable. I recognise that the issues involved in this case are many and complex. They relate to the role and rights of the university within our community. They relate to the powers of university authorities and the associations that exist on campuses; they relate also to the meaning, I believe, in this case in particular, of conscientious objection; and to the significant issue of the fundamental freedoms of individuals to which I referred at the outset, such as the freedom of association. I recognise the complexity of those issues, but there is some urgency about this case now. Whilst I would have liked a good deal more time to examine the issues that are involved, the urgency relates to the fact that the three students in particular to whom I have referred I understand are to have their enrolments terminated and that may in fact happen as soon as tomorrow. 
Obviously such a decision could have a dramatic and adverse impact on the careers and the futures of these young people. They have had to make a decision. I understand they have thought it through and they believe they are doing what is right in conscience and therefore have acted as they have. There may of course be open to them avenues of appeal which they can pursue. But obviously this must be a traumatic experience for young students acting, as they believe in conscience, properly, having to face the prospect of their enrolments at the University being terminated. The whole issue poses a dilemma, but it needs to be resolved; in fact I believe it is imperative that it is resolved quickly. 
I therefore put to the Minister the question of what action might be taken in this case. I stress that the Australian National University is a matter of responsibility for the Commonwealth and I hope that there is some avenue open and that the Minister might in some way take action to ensure in particular that these young people with their careers ahead of them, in the midst of their studies, are not adversely affected because of the decisions that have been made. I would therefore ask him to give some indication or undertake to examine this matter as urgently as he is able, to ensure that it and the more general issues involved are resolved and that the young people concerned, acting as they have said, in accord with their consciences, in such circumstances should not suffer or face unfair and unreasonable judgment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen a report by Professor George Seddon entitled 'An Open Space System for Canberra', which states on page 65 with respect to recreation facilities in open space that 'Special attention should be given to the needs of present and future residents north of the Molonglo because of inequities in the distribution of natural resources for recreation '. 
Will the Minister give details of the 'inequities'. 
What action is being taken on this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 13 April 1978: 
What are the details of the substantial technical and financial assistance provided by Australia for the development of a South Pacific regional shipping line, referred to in the Minister's answer to Question No. 1573 of 1976 (Senate  Hansard. 10  December 1976, page 3097). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) What are the administrative arrangements relating to the Non-government Organisations Project Subsidy Scheme, referred to in the Minister's reply to Question No. 1570 of 1 976 (Senate Hansard, 10 December 1 976, page 3116). 
What subsidies were provided under this scheme during 1975, 1976 and 1977, and for what purposes was each subsidy granted. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. I refer to an article which I know has been drawn to his attention in the 1 May edition of  Time  magazine. It refers to the microwave landing system debate within the International Civil Aviation Organisation. It makes only passing and fleeting reference to Australia 's involvement. The article concludes: 
Bui after technical presentations and demonstrations or both devices in Montreal - 
That is the British system and what the article refers to as the United States system- 
The 1CAO experts voted 39 to 24 in favor of the American system. The US scanning beam has won a crucial round in the quest for a prize that eventually may be worth $4 billion in equipment sales around the world. 
Is it a fact that the microwave landing system known as InterScan approved by the ICAO on that occasion was developed in Australia by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Department of Transport? Will any action be taken to ensure that people writing about or reporting on this issue will have brought to their attention the fact that the system was developed in Australia because of Australian technological expertise and that Australia continues to have a very close interest in it? 
I present the following petition from 85 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned women of the A.C.T. respectfully showeth that: 
1 ) Family Allowances have not been increased since May 1976, 
Unlike pensions, family allowances have not been indexed to take account of movements in the Consumer Price Index, 
The failure to index family allowances means that as at November 1977, the family with one child is 70 cents a week worse off, the family with two children is $ 1 . 70 a week worse off, the family with three children is $2.90 a week worse off, the family with four children is $4. 10 a week worse off and the family with five children is $5.50 a week worse off. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should take action to: 
Restore the real value of family allowances, 
Index family allowances in the same way that pensions have been indexed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister for Administrative Services aware that many slogans have appeared on walls and fences in Canberra recently expressing the ideas or explicitly proclaiming the ideology of the Universal Proutist Revolutionary Federation? More particularly, is the Minister aware that some slogans which have appeared- I make the point that I am not sure that they are Proutist in origin, but they have appeared in the same locations in some caseshave stated that two students of the Australian National University should be killed? Is it true that the Universal Proutist Revolutionary Federation is in fact a revolutionary terrorist organisation? Can the Minister say what action is being taken to ascertain whether the Proutist organisation is established and active in Australia, particularly in the Australian Capital Territory? 
I ask the Minister for Education: How many schools in Australia which are funded directly or indirectly by the Commonwealth or are supported in some way by the Commonwealth are associated with the Ananda Marga sect? 
-On behalf of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Paliamcnt assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That Item 6469 of the standard Medical Benefits Table is the means by which payment is made for the slaughter of thousands of unborn babies every year. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government should ensure that Item 6469 is removed from the standard Medical Benefits Table. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 4 March 1 978: 
1 ) What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory's (a) retail, (b) restaurant, (c) cinema, (d) indoor sporting/ recreation, (e) outdoor sporting/recreation, (f) primary school, (g) secondary school and college, (h) pre-school, (i) child care, (j) health centre, (k) playground and (1) parkland facilities, have been established in the North Canberra area. 
What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory population resides in North Canberra area. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 4 March 1978: 
1 ) What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory's (a) retail, (b) restaurant, (c) cinema, (d) indoor sporting/recreation, (e) outdoor sporting/recreation, (f) primary school, (g) secondary school and college, (h) pre-school, (i) child care, (j) health centre, (k) playground and (1) parkland facilities, have been established in the South Canberra area. 
What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory population resides in South Canberra. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 4 March 1 978: 
1 ) What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory's (a) retail, (b) restaurant, (c) cinema, (d) indoor sporting/recreation, (e) outdoor sporting/recreation, (f) primary school, (g) secondary school and college, (h) pre-school, (i) child care, (j) health centre, (k) playground and (1) parkland facilities, have been established in the Belconnen area. 
What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory population resides in the Belconnen area. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 4 March 1 978: 
1 ) What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory's (a) retail, (b) restaurant, (c) cinema, (d) indoor sporting/recreation, (e) outdoor sporting/recreation, ( f) primary school, (g) secondary school and college, (h) pre-school, (i) child care, (j) health centre, (k) playground and (1) parkland facilities, have been established in the Woden ValleyWeston Creek area. 
What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory population resides in the Woden Valley- Weston Creek area. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 4 March 1978: 
1 ) What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory's (a) retail, (b) restaurant, (c) cinema, (d) indoor sporting/recreation, (e) outdoor sporting/ recreation, (f) primary school, (g) secondary school and college, (h) pre-school, (i) child care, (j) health centre, (k) playground and (l) parkland facilities, have been established in the Tuggeranong area. 
What proportion of the Australian Capital Territory population resides in the Tuggeranong area. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, on notice, on 3 May 1978: 
How many of the projects recommended for implementation by the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, in its consideration of the 60th, 61st, 62nd, 63rd and 64th (including 64a) series of variations to the Plan of Canberra, have (a) been completed; (b) been commenced; and (c) not yet been commenced. 
In the case of (b), what stage has been reached with each project. 
In the case of (c), what are the reasons for these projects not having been commenced. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science, relates to the importance of the development of alternative sources of energy. Is the Minister aware that significant advances may have been made in Canberra in the treatment of abattoir waste material to develop methane gas? Can the Minister say whether this might be a viable source of energy and, if so, for what purposes it might be used? Is his Department or the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation associated with this development? Is the Government providing or will it consider support for this research in Canberra? 
I feel that I owe the Senate a brief explanation for speaking at this late hour. I had sought to speak at the first reading stage of Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1977-78 but, because of the legislative program, I have not been able to do so up to this time. 
I feel that it is appropriate to make this statement during the month of May because it refers to events in May 1972. This month marks the sixth anniversary of the events to which I want to refer and, as there is less than an hour of May left, I feel it appropriate and necessary to make the statement tonight. I refer to the suicide of Romas Kalanta in Lithuania on 14 May 1972. He committed suicide in the Lithuanian city of Kaunas. His suicide was followed by others and by a number of demonstrations in Lithuania and other Baltic States. I feel that the Senate and others in Australia should remember the events that occurred in the Baltic States in May 1972. 1 will refer to reports in the  New York Times  and the London  Times  of May 1972 which gave some information about the events that had occurred in the Baltic States. For example, these reports referred to the fact that several thousand youths battled Soviet policemen and soldiers in the Lithuanian city of Kaunas in a riot that developed after Romas Kal anta 's suicide. 
According to the information available to me, Romas Kalanta was a young factory worker from the city of Kaunas. He spent his evenings attending a night school. He was a talented student, a religious youth, and was not known to be an agitator. The London  Times  in May 1972 recorded that sources from Kaunas said that the disorders had eventually died down after Soviet parachute troops and KGB units drawn mainly from central Asian and the Caucasus garrisons moved in to reinforce the police. The reports also indicated that, earlier in 1972, 17,000 of Lithuania's three and a half million Roman Catholics had signed a letter to  Dr Kurt  Waldheim, the United Nations' SecretaryGeneral, complaining of alleged religious repression by the communist authorities in Lithuania. 
It was reported that Romas Kalanta. who burnt himself to death, died shouting 'Freedom for Lithuania'. In the rioting that developed later it is reported that there were several thousand young people involved at the time and after his funeral. I gather that there was a very unsettled situation in cities such as Kaunas in Lithuania and elsewhere in the Baltic States at that time. It was reported also that these events were contained by the parachute troops and KGB internal law enforcement units with some difficulty. The London  Times  reported: 
Telephone conversations with sources living in other Baltic cities indicated that the reports of the Kaunas riots were spreading by word of mouth throughout the Baltic States. 
These events were unprecedented in the Baltic States, obviously reflecting some of the feelings of those people and particularly their antiRussian feelings following the annexation of the Baltic States, including Lithuania, in 1 940. Previously they had been under the czarist regime for about 120 years. 
Although since 1972 there have been fewer such demonstrations of the wish for greater freedom on the part of the Lithuanian people- fewer overt signs- I believe that these feelings are no less present and are perhaps stronger now than ever. I have already referred to protests concerning religious freedom that have been made to the United Nations. Honourable senators will recall the occasion when a Lithuanian sailor, Simas Kudirka, sought refuge on a United States coastguard vessel in 1970 and was later sent back and sentenced to 10 years hard labour for having made an attempt at freedom. I think that the following reported statement by him is very significant: 
All I demand is an independent Lithuania, one that is not occupied by any army, and has a free, democratic system of elections. 
I have raised this matter this evening because this month marks the sixth anniversary of those events in Lithuania and elsewhere in the Baltic States when the people of the Baltic States took a stand for their freedom and independence and, through those events, made their views known to the world. As a result, many people in Lithuania in particular suffered. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  some extracts from the Amnesty International Journal  A Chronicle of Current Events  from 1972 to 1973, which outline the events to which I have been referring and some of the subsequent developments. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

EXTRACTS FROM  A CHRONICLE OF CURRENT EVENTS  JOURNAL OF THE SOVIET HUMAN RIGHTS MOVEMENT, PUBLISHED BY AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 
Events in Lithuania 
On 14 May, in one of the squares of Kaunas, Romas Kalanta (born 1953), who had finished secondary education and was the son of a college lecturer died by selfimmolation, under the banner 'Freedom for Lithuania'. Three of his friends surrounded the burning youth and would not allow anyone to approach him. They were arrested and charged with 'premeditated murder with aggravating circumstances' (equivalent of article 102 in the Russion Criminal Code). Their names are so far unknown to the Chronicle. 
Kalanta died in hospital a few hours later. His funeral was scheduled for 1 8 May. A few hours before the appointed time his body was secretely taken from the morgue and buried. People who had arrived for the funeral went to the place of his self-immolation. A very large crowd gathered. The police set about dispersing it. The assembly offered resistance. Rumour has it that one policeman died. After this troops were called in, and they dispersed the crowd. The disorders' continued on 19 May also. Many people were arrested. Some were given ten to fifteen days' imprisonment for 'petty hooliganism'. Criminal proceedings were instituted against several people. 
A Kaunas newspaper printed a photocopy of a letter from the parents of Kalanta: 'A great misfortune has befallen our family- the suicide of our son. Everyone will understand the grief of his parents. But some irresponsible elements, taking advantage of our misfortune, are talking of the persecution of relatives, and trying to disturb law and order in the town. Others, simply out of curiosity, are following their example, thereby causing us even greater pain. No-one has the human right to behave thus. The greatest comfort to our family would be to be left in peace.' This letter was reprinted in newspapers in Vilnius in the Lithuanian and Russian languages. 
The  Chairman  of Kaunas City Soviet Executive Committee [J. M. Seris] appeared on Kaunas television with 'interpretations'. In particular, he said: 'The investigatory organs have enquired into and elucidated the circumstances of his suicide. A forensic-medical commission was created. The doctors who participated in its work were: J. Andriuskevicene, Reader in the Faculty of Medicine at Vilnius University; V. Berneris, Head Doctor of Kaunas Psycho-neurological Hospital; J. Gutmanas, (39) Chief Psychiatrist of the Lithuanian Ministry of Health; I. Surkus, Professor at Kaunas Medical Institute; and other specialists in the field [among them A. Dauksene]. Having carried out a forensic-psychiatric examination and studied the documents, letters and sketches of the deceased at its disposal, and also taking into account the evidence of parents, teachers and friends, the commission came to the conclusion that Romas Kalanta was mentally ill and had committed suicide while in a morbid frame of mind. Certain irresponsible persons, a group of juveniles, not understanding, and incorrectly appraising, the above-mentioned fact, and devoid of any sense of responsibility, tried to disturb law and order' in the town . . . We appeal to school directors, teachers, parents and young people and call upon them to assist in safeguarding the peace in this town. ' (40) 
39 ) See Gutmana's role in the S. Kudirka case.  Chronicle  20. 
This Speech was also reported by Vilnius Radio in English on 27 May. Similar accounts of the commission's findings appeared in  Kauno Tiesa  20 May and  Sovetskaya Litva  2 1 May, and another such was given by I. Udaltsov at an official press-conference in Moscow on 25 May. According to an eye-witness of the events, however, Kalanta 's friends said that he was mentally healthy, a member of the Komsomol, and neither drunk nor disturbed when he immolated himself. See the  Sunday Telegraph  London, 2 July 1972. For other press coverage see agency reports dated 21 and 22 May. 
In one issue of the paper  Kauno Tiesa  letters were published 'condemning the acts of hooliganism'. 
On 22 May the same paper printed an article 'Who are They, these Disturbers of the Peace?' The article says: 'On 1 8 and 19 May a small band of hooligans caused a disturbance of law and order. In order to inform our readers who these hooligans are, the editors addressed themselves to the town Procuracy. There we discovered that the majority are persons with previous records of conviction on more than one occasion for hooliganism and other criminal offences. They are long-haired, degenerate, perverted hooligans, of unsightly appearance. Here are the character-references we have received on some of them'. The article continues with a description of five of those arrested in the square. One of them, Genrikas Pociunas, a school-leaver, has had criminal proceedings instituted against him for 'breach of the peace, insubordination and use of violence against members of the police force'. 
On 2 8 May, during a fair on the market-square of the town of Varena, Stonis (a sanitary technician born in 1949) and three of his friends hoisted the (Lithuanian) national flag. Stonis 's friends were seized immediately by the police, but he himself managed to get away. Next day in the same square he set fire to himself(41). He died on 10 June in a military hospital. The funeral took place under police and KGB supervision. For the duration of the funeral roadblocks were set up on all roads into Varena 
See AP and UPI dispatches from Moscow dated 13June. 
On 3 June, on a Kaunas street (the square in which Kalanta died by self-immolation is under guard) a worker, Andriuskevicius (born 1912), set himself alight for the same reasons. He died the next day in a military hospital. He was buried secretly by the police in an unknown locality. 
On 10 June in a Kapsukas street a worker, Zalickauskas (born 1910), tried to burn himself to death, but was seized. He is now in a military hospital (42 ) 
On the last three cases and the next episode see also UPI dispatches dated 5 and 6 July. 
The Events in Lithuania 
No. 27 (October 1972) 
Some details have become known about the tragic suicide of Romas Kalanta and the events that followed it in Kaunas (see  Chronicle  No. 26). Kalanta died by self-immolation at about 1 p.m. (on May 1 4) in a city garden next to the Kaunas Musical Theatre and opposite the City Soviet Executive Committee building. Sitting on a bench in the garden, Kalanta wrote something in a notebook, tore out the sheets of paper and laid them on the stone edging of a fountain, poured petrol over himself, scattered what remained of it all a round and set himself alight. The youth asked people who rushed up to him to kill him. Soon he fell to the ground, still inside the circle of flames. The story of how Kalanta 's friends did not allow anyone to approach him (see  Chronicle  No. 26) has so far not been confirmed. The sheets of paper left by Kalanta were read by many of the people who came up to the spot where the suicide had taken place. The  Chronicle  does not know their precise content. All that is known is that Kalanta protested at the prevailing conditions in Lithuania and asserted that it was better to die then to go on living as before. 
The burns received by Kalanta turned out to be so extensive that after he had been taken to hospital he had to be given injections in the soles of his feet. Rumour has it that Kalanta, delirious, repeated again and again: 'I shan't tell you anything'. It was also rumoured that the KBG maintained a constant guard by his bedside. Kalanta died a few hours later. 
His body was taken by relatives to his home on Paperiu Street (Viliampole district). Access to the body was apparently open to all. Many people, especially the young, came to pay their last respects to the deceased. 
On 18 May, long before the appointed hour of 4 o'clock in the afternoon, many people who wished to attend the funeral gathered at the house. When the hearse drove off from the house it immediately accelerated sharply, leaving the funeral procession far behind, and the mourners did not reach the cemetery until the burial was over. In the meantime a large crowd had assembled outside Kalanta 's home. A call to go to the place of the suicide was taken up, and people started chanting 'To the city garden! ' All along the way new people joined in the demonstration; traffic came to a halt and the police did not interfere with the demonstrators. The procession was chanting 'Freedom!', Lithuania! '. Conversations sprang up amongst the marchers about the arrest of some of Kalanta 's fellow-students who had tried to decorate the place of bis self-immolation with flowers. Rumours circulated, evidently false, to the effect that Kalanta 's father had been detained. Upon reaching the city gardens the demonstration turned towards the City Executive Committee building. Shouts of 'Free the arrested people! They are our comrades!' rang out. The doors and windows of the building were bolted. The demonstrators crossed over into the gardens, where they held a meeting. One appeal made was that they should not cease their daily demonstrations until the arrested persons were freed. 'We promise! ' the crowd chanted, ' Freedom for Lithuania! ' Girls laid flowers on the spot of the suicide. The demonstrators sang national songs. From the park the demonstration moved down Freedom Avenue in the direction of the KGB headquarters. Not far from what used to be a cathedral and is now an art gallery the procession was halted by police cordons blocking its path. For some time the row of policemen did not move a step. Now politely, now giving orders, they requested people to disperse. Someone in plain clothes grabbed a girl from the head of the demonstration and tried to drag her towards the KBG building, but the crowd forced him aside. On the cathedral steps brief and spontaneous meetings gathered time and again. 
The police began to bear down on the demonstrators and force them into side streets and courtyards. Buses and police vehicles appeared and the police began herding demonstrators into the cars. Only then did real clashes with the police begin and fights break out- Near the cathedral a policeman was seriously injured (or, according to another version, killed) by a stone. 
On 18 May the police and state security officials were unable to control the situation. Skirmishes with the police continued until nightfall. 
On 19 May demonstrators began to gather at about 3 o'clock in the afternoon. Clashes with the police occurred. From approximately 7 p.m. military units were brought in to break up the demonstration for good. They beat the demonstrators, and also any people who happened to be in the streets, with rubber truncheons. According to rough estimates, about 400 people were detained. Prison cells were filled to overflowing and, in some, men and women were confined together. Also used to accommodate the detainees was the notorious Ninth Fort, a museum on the outskirts of Kaunas which was a Gestapo torture-chamber during the war. 
Most of the detainees were released a few hours later after being questioned. Many were beaten up before their release. Some were freed after several days, while others were given 15 days' imprisonment (see  Chronicle  No. 26). As it turned out, the demonstration had been photographed. Some of the people called in for questioning in the summer and autumn were confronted with photographs as proof of their participation in the demonstration. So far it is not known whether anyone has been arrested as the instigator of the demonstration. 
The city gardens near the Musical Theatre were patrolled for a long time afterwards. It appears that detectives are still on duty there even now. 
On 5 October the paper  Soviet Lithunania  reported that the Lithuanian Supreme Court in Vilnius had heard the case of eight people arrested during the disorders of 18 May in Kuanas (an article by P. Jankauskas and L. Marcinkevicius entitled ' Disturbers of Public Order Punished '). The defendants were charged under article 199-3 of the Lithuanian Criminal Code (equivalent to article 190-3 of the Russian Code). Two were charged in addition under articles 255 para. 2 and 99 para. 1 of the Lithuanian Code (hooliganism and damage to state property). All the defendants were found guilty. 
Vitautas Kalade, age 25, a stagehand, was sentenced to three years of hard-regime camps; Antanas Kacinskas, age 24, to three years of strict-regime camps; Virginia Urbonaviciute, age 18, to one year of correctional labour (at her place of work); Rimas Bauzis, age 18, workers Kazis Grinkevicius age 24, and Vitautas Zmuila, age 23, comprehensive school students Jonas Prapuolenaitis, 2 1 , and Jonas Macijauskas, 19, to terms ranging from 18 months to three years of camps(49) 
The judge was M. Ignotas, and the defence lawyers were G. Gavronskis, P. Kudaba, V. Zabela, A. Sarka, and A. Urbasevicius. See also  New York Times  and Reuter dispatches from Moscow dated 25 September and 3 October, and a Reuter dispatch of 4 January about an official report of a further trial in which R. Truskauskas, aged 17, got ten years for allegedly taking part both in the demonstrations and in a group rape. For a Soviet eye-witness account of Kalanta 's death see  Posses  2, 1973, p. 18. 
Events in Lithuania 
Nos28/31 (1973) 
On 14 May 1973, the first anniversary of R. Kalanta 's selfimmolation (see  Chronicles  26, 27), extra detachments of police armed with rubber truncheons and equipped with portable two-way radios patrolled Kaunas. Pupils and officials of various institutions were also designated to help maintain order. There were many people on Freedom Avenue, where Kalanta burned himself to death, and the police did not allow them to stop moving. Various pretexts were used to see to it that pupils from many schools were taken out of town for a few days. In some schools 'classes' lasted from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. 
Some people attempted to place flowers on R. Kalanta 's grave or the site of his self-immolation. They were all detained. The number of detainees is not known. 
I simply conclude by saying that, on the first anniversary of Romas Kalanta 's self-immolation there were some demonstrations. Let me cite the last couple of sentences from the documents I have incorporated: 
Some people attempted to place flowers on Kalanta 's grave or the site of his self-immolation. They were all detained. The number of detainees is not known. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 11.8 p.m. 
-Which shows how seriously you take it. 
We all know what the real answer to unemployment is: it 's generating growth and development- 
We have not seen much growth and development in the last six to eight months since this Government has been in office. The country is stagnating. The Prime Minister's speech continued:  it 's industry providing new jobs- 
As  Senator Colston  has pointed out quite rightly- he had the figures to prove it- industry is not providing new jobs. Industry is shrinking. More and more people are fronting up to register for unemployment benefit because they cannot find jobs under this Government. So that is another promise made by the Prime Minister which has gone out the window. One of the most important points in the speech was:  it's training people to fill new jobs- and keep them. 
This Government will not even make funds available to provide training for people who have been retrenched from jobs.  Senator Bishop  raised this matter in the Senate this morning. I will refer to it later. This is something of which the present Government when in Opposition made great play. It said that the Labor Government did not provide proper training for people. Yet we find that in the Chrysler works in South Australia 1,100 people are faced with retrenchment in the next 18 months. The union has made application to  Mr Street  for funds to retrain these people and he has refused to do so. I will refer later to an article on which  Senator Bishop  based a question this morning. It was published in today's Adelaide  Advertiser.  The Prime Minister's policy speech also stated: 
Because of our job assistance strategy, because of the growth and development our policies have made possible unemployment will fall from February and keep falling. 
Once again I refer to  Senator Colston's  remarks. Unemployment has not fallen. It is increasing and it will go on increasing under this Government because of its policies. On page 3 of this policy speech the Prime Minister spoke about the Whitlam Government. He said: 
When they were in Government, they stopped growth and development. 
When bringing down the last Budget, for which we are now seeking additional funds, the Government admitted that it was curbing expenditure on development.  Mr Fraser  was talking with a two tongue in order to fool the people. The Government cannot fool the people all the time. It will not be long before there is another election and then it will have to answer for these promises. It will be the duty of the Opposition to remind the people of all the promises that the Government made and of the promises that it has not fulfilled over the months. On page 6 of his policy speech the Prime Minister said: 
We have cut down increases in your rates by giving local government a fixed share of all personal income tax receipts. This year it was 1.52 per cent. Over the next three years, we will increase that share to 2 per cent. 
We are being inundated with letters from local government bodies all over Australia. Because of the restrictions this Government has placed upon funds for local government, they are asking for a 2 per cent share in the next Budget. They want it. My office is full of letters. I am spending a good percentage of my time answering these letters. People write to us all asking us to approach the Prime Minister and ask him to grant the 2 per cent not in three years' time but in the coming Budget. The Prime Minister has copies of the letters and I have received a reply from him. He does not say he will do it. He ignores the fact that local government is in dire straits. All he will say is that because of the economic conditions he cannot make any promises that he will do it. So of course the Government will have to answer for that and we will see that it does. One can look right through the Prime Minister's policy speech and wherever one looks one will find promises that were made. He made another great promise. He said that Australia did not want a tourist for a Prime Minister. Where is the Prime Minister today? The Parliament is still sitting; the country is in crisis; his Ministers are having problems, he has replaced them; he has a royal commission looking at the problems facing some of them. Where is he? He has flitted off overseas. I will refer to a few statements that were put out while the present Government was in opposition. I will refer to what it had to say about  Mr Whitlam.  If those statements were true then, they are truer now. The country is facing a greater crisis today than it did under the Whitlam Government. I am one of those people who believe that the Whitlam Government did not face a crisis. The only crisis we faced when we were in government occurred when we redistributed the wealth from the people who could afford to do without it to the people who sorely needed it. That is why we got into trouble. The money-bags of the country rose up in arms and in conjunction with the Liberal Party, the banks, the insurance companies and the Governor-General of the day they had us thrown out of office. I now refer to some of the statements put out by the Liberals when in opposition. They could well be applied to the present Prime Minister. A statement dated Sunday, 24 February, came from the Liberal Party headquarters. It is a statement by the Rt  Hon.  P. R. Lynch,  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. He was the shadow Treasurer at the time. Of course, we all know what has happened to him. He is one of the Ministers who have gone by the wayside He said: 
Overdue decisions on pension increases, - 
He was blaming the Labor Government. Our record for pension increases is one of which I think we can be proud. We brought in a twiceyearly increase for pensioners. They have some security; they know that they will get an increase. The present Government of course has continued that program, but it was not the innovators of it; the Whitlam Labor Government was. What did the Fraser Government do when it came into office? One of the first things that it did to help the pensioners was to endeavour to take away the $40 funeral allowance. I can well remember the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  standing up in her place, when she had charge of the passage of the Bill, defying the honourable senators behind her, saying: 'We  have to take it away; it has to be'. Of course, the Government would have taken it away had it not been for a few rebels on its side. They crossed the floor and voted with the Labor Party for the retention of the $40 funeral benefit. So much for criticising us for what we did for pensioners.  Mr Lynch  went on to say:  . . a training program to alleviate structural problems in the labour market and a much-needed comprehensive review of the government's economic policy have all but been frustrated by the Prime Minister's prolonged absences. 
When we look at the record and sum up the figures in the answers to questions that are posed through the Estimates committees following the next Budget, we will find that the Prime Minister has had just as many trips overseas as  Mr Whitlam  had in the space of time. They have been much more costly and, I might add, much less fruitful. I will refer to what  Dr Helen  Caldecott  had to say this morning on  AM  about the Prime Minister and his policy on uranium.  Mr Lynch  went on to say: 
One must always remember that responsiveness to the specific needs of the Australian people is the primary responsibility of the government. 
That is what we did when we were in government. We were responding to the needs of the under-privileged of this country. But the silvertails and money-bags of Australia did not like it. They did not like to have to contribute to the welfare of the ordinary man in the street. As I said earlier, they engineered everything at their disposal to see that we were thrown out of office.  Mr Lynch  spoke about the program to alleviate structural problems in the labour market and about training people out of work. I have quoted the relevant passage from the Prime Minister's speech. I want to read also a telex received today by members of the Labor Party representing South Australia. It expressed concern and referred to the article in today's Adelaide  Advertiser  by  Mr Bill  Rust, the industrial reporter. The article on page 3 of today's Adelaide  Advertiser  states: 
Car union's retraining plan rejected. 
A trade union plan to retrain retrenched SA car-industry workers has been rejected by officials of the Federal Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. 
Vehicles Builders Union officials are irate. The union plan was to retain the 1,100 Chrysler workers due to be retrenched by the end of next year, including the 300 who were dismissed or resigned on May 12, for work in the smash crash-repair industry, using funds from the Federal Government under the National Employment and Training Scheme. 
The VBU SA branch secretary,  Mr D.  J. Foreman, yesterday sent a message to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  in Canberra saying that Tuesday's meeting of union and employer representatives with officials of the Minister's department had proved fruitless because of the officials' attitude. 
Because of their attitude, we feel promises made by you and the Prime Minister to representatives of this union at our meeting in Canberra on May 9 (regarding the availability of unlimited funds for retraining) have been broken ', his message said. 
Your officials yesterday proposed an ad hoc scheme under the facilities of the Department of Further Education. 
This would be totally inadequate as the suggested number of people to be retrained was 40 out of an expected 1 , 1 00 to be displaced in this State by Chrysler Australia Ltd alone'. 
That is the magnificent offer of this Governmentthat of the 1,100 people to be displaced it will find funds to retrain 40 people. That is a magnificent gesture after what the Prime Minister said in his policy speech and after what  Mr Lynch  said in his Press statement issued from the Liberal castle over the road. The article continues: 
The message said a survey by the union and employers had shown that DFE facilities would not meet the required level and costing would be 'enormous'. 
This would not have been the case with the rejected union scheme. 
Your officials appear to have no idea of the needs of vehicle industry as expressed by this union and employers ' the message said. 
From comments passed by officials of your State branch, it is apparent that the retail sector of the industry is the biggest user of the NEAT scheme. 
However, the direct opposite is the case with the retail sector of the vehicle industry. 
We feel this highlights the ignorance of your officials who met us and totally ignores the needs of employees and employers in this sector of the industry'. 

 Mr Foreman said the Department's inspection of Chrysler's Tonsley Park facilities on May 1 1 had decided they were inadequate for the union 's retraining plan. 
As a result, the union had formulated an alternative proposal which had now been rejected by  Mr Street  's departmental officials. 
VBU  organiser  Mr Pat  Meehan said that the union plan had been rejected by the departmental officials because representatives of the South Australian Automobile Chamber of Commerce said they could not guarantee employment after the workers had been retrained. This is ridiculous. There is no guarantee for school teachers or anybody else to be employed once they are trained. That article was written by industrial reporter Bill Rust and was published in the Adelaide  Advertiser  today. That puts the whole situation in a nutshell. As I said earlier when I rose to speak, the present Prime Minister has made magnificent promises to increase employment, to reduce unemployment and to retrain people who need a job. Yet he has done none of these things. He has increased unemployment and will not even make funds available to retrain  these people who sorely need retraining. So there is another promise that has gone out the window. 
Today we are witnessing a concerted effort by both the State and Federal Liberal members to paint a black picture in the minds of the people who live there and in the minds of the business people who may be considering going to South Australia to set up a business. Every day in newspapers are reports of  Mr Tonkin  mouthing criticism of the South Australian Government. Practically every day in this place we hear Dorothy Dix questions put up by  Senator Messner, Senator Young  or  Senator Jessop  to  Senator Carrick.  He then prates on about the terrible state of the industrial sphere in South Australia. Of course he is completely wrong. All these senators are doing is trying to knock the State for political purposes- nothing else- when they should be here helping the State. They are trying to get people into a situation where they believe that under a Labor Government in South Australia they are going down the drain. Nothing could be further from the truth. In South Australia we have one of the best State governments, next to the Wran Government, that Australia has ever seen. We witness the performance of State Liberal leader, at present  Mr Tonkin.  This comes to the nub of what is going on. He is struggling not only to maintain his own party's support in the face of concerted efforts by the member for Davenport,  Mr Brown; Mr Tonkin  is struggling to maintain his party's support because  Mr Brown,  one of the young turks of the State Liberal Party, is doing all he can to usurp the leadership of  Mr Tonkin. 

 Mr Tonkin is also worried at the latest public opinion polls. They show that the people who support him total 27 per cent. I interjected here today to remind  Senator Carrick  of  Mr Tonkin's  popularity rating in South Australia- 27 per cent- as against the Premier's, 56 per cent. So the people of South Australia are not too worried about the ability of the Dunstan Labor Government to look after their affairs. They have also taken into cognisance that  Mr Tonkin  has never been in a position to run a State. He would not be able to do it. 
The people of South Australia are also mindful of the fact that there have been many changes of leadership in the South Australian parliamentary Liberal Party over the years since Playford left office. Whom did we see following him?  Mr Hall.  We all know  Mr Hall  because he was a member of the Senate. I will refer to him and his connections and the statements he made about Australian Security Intelligence Organisation funding before I sit down today. After  Mr Hall  we had  Dr Eastick.  Now we have  Mr Tonkin.  Who will be the next in the line? It will be  Mr Brown  if he can get his way. If we look at the executive arm of the Liberal Party in South Australia we find that it goes through directors like quicksilver through a duck. Almost every two months there is a new director because the members cannot agree. These are the people who tell us on one hand that in the Federal sphere they are going to uplift employment figures and put the economy back on the rails but on the other hand in South Australia these people cannot even run their own party affairs because they are being torn apart by a power struggle within their party. On every issue  Mr Tonkin  tries to knock  Mr Dunstan  and on the other hand tries to emulate him in many things. When Don Dunstan, the Premier of South Australia, put out a cook book which was a top seller it was not long before  Mr Tonkin  also published a cook book. I am sure that if anybody used some of the recipes in it he would be poisoned with the Liberal Party ingredients. 
Let us have a look at the unemployment figures and the record of South Australia in industrial disputes. We have people standing up in this chamber every day trying to frighten business enterprises away from our State. Yet we have the best industrial record of any State. I have some figures here to prove that. In 1977 working days lost in South Australia were by far the least of any State in Australia. I shall compare South Australia's figures with those of our neighbouring State of Victoria which has a Liberal Government under  Mr Hamer.  South Australia has 9.3 per cent of the Australian work force. In 1977 our percentage of working days lost was 1.8 per cent. Have a look at the Australian figures. The days lost through stoppages and industrial disputes in South Australia amounted to 1.8 per cent of the total of days lost in Australia yet we have a work force of 9.3 per cent of the Australian total. Let us have a look at the figures for Victoria, over the border under a Liberal Government. It has 27 per cent of the Australian work force. Its loss of working days through industrial disputes was 35 per cent of the Australian total. This is magnificent under a Liberal Government! 
How did that come about? I shall tell honourable senators. In South Australia the Labor Government does its best to sit down in consultation with the trade union movement and to resolve problems before they get out of hand. But what do we find in Victoria? We find always a policy of confrontation. The Government is not prepared to talk to the trade union movement to iron out the problems; it has confrontation. Of course the figures are on the record and can be obtained from the Australian Bureau of Statistics. They prove what I am saying is correct. Whilst Labor is in government in South Australia we will endeavour to carry out that policy of sitting down and talking over problems that arise in industry. Problems will arise. They always have and they always will. While on the one hand employers are trying to squeeze every ounce of productivity out of the work force at the least possible cost and on the other hand the trade union movement is trying to get a fair deal for its members industrial disputes will always be with us. 
We need a government that is prepared to sit down as a mediator and try to solve problems as quickly as possible. That is what the Dunstan Labor Government in South Australia has been able to do. Every time that Liberal senators from South Australia rise in this chamber and try to belittle the State that they come here to represent and try to put it on the rocks I will get up and defend South Australia and do so with figures similar to which I gave while debating the Softwoods Forestry Agreement Bill. Honourable senators opposite have not come back with any argument with the figures I gave then. 
I turn to primary industry. This Governent in its policy speech, told us about all the magnificent things it would do for the farmers and for primary industry. I refer again to a chart which was given to the Estimates Committee which was dealing with the Department of Trade and Resources. Where does the Government place its greatest importance within the seven divisions that now exist in the Department of Trade and Resources? The greatest emphasis is placed on uranium. The Department has two divisional heads looking at the uranium question- two principal advisers- one concerned with development and the other with export. Yet in the two commodity areas which are of major importance to the primary industry of this country there is only one principal adviser. This document needs to be circulated far and wide among the farming community to let the farmers and those who live in country towns see where this Government's priorities lie. They do not lie in making a better life for the man who produces the food that we eat and who contribute to our greatest export income. The members of the Government are not concerned about finding overseas markets for the produce of farmers. They are more concerned about finding overseas markets for uranium.  Dr Helen  Caldecott was talking about this matter on  AM  this morning. I think it might be appropriate if I referred to what she had to say when interviewed. The transcript reads: 
RAY MARTIN: In all of these protests there is a prominent Australian. 
He is referring to protests against the mining and selling of uranium. Ray Martin then went on to introduce  Dr Helen  Caldecott. a paediatrician from Adelaide who is now teaching at Harvard University. Of course she is well aware of the problems that may exist if we start mining uranium in Australia without necessary safeguards. We spent three or four days in debate recently trying to extract from the Government what safeguards it intends for uranium. The Government has not come up with any advancement on the safeguards which it put down in this Parliament in May 1977. This is why people are concerned.  Dr Helen  Caldecott is reported as saying on the  AM  program this morning: 
Our Prime Minister from Australia, Malcolm Fraser, is here at the United Nations to promote disarmament. He is about to sell all the Australian uranium on the open market, all of which will be used to make atomic bombs. He is a prime example of a hypocritical powerful, selfish, greedy politician. 
I agree with her words. I said in the debate on the uranium Bills that this is all the Government is concerned about. The document from the Department of Trade and Resources proves that the Government attaches prime importance to the mining of uranium. It says, in effect: 'Never mind at all about the safeguards '. 
I want to refer also to statements that were made in previous years by people who are now Ministers of this Government. Criticism was made of the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  for his overseas trips, particularly on one occasion when he left the country a day before the Parliament rose. Now we find that the present Prime Minister has gone overseas at least a week before the Parliament has risen- at least a week; it might even be longer. Let us look at the House of Representatives  Hansard  for 17 October 1 974, page 2549. 1 quote  Mr Garland. 
I criticise the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for his absence from the chamber. Surely it is a primary responsibility  of any Minister to be in the House of Parliament in which he sits when the estimates for his Department are being debated so that he can hear the views being put forward by honourable members. 
If it was good enough in 1 974 for  Mr Garland  to say that about  Mr Whitlam,  why is it not good enough now for the Prime Minister to be sitting in the Parliament when all these problems and crises are facing the Government. A new crisis crops up every day. Where is the Prime Minister? He is somewhere overseas. I refer again to the  Hansard  of the same day. A concerted attack was being launched by the then Opposition, which is now the Government, against the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  because he was absent. I will quote  Mr Howard.  We all know his track record and how he became the present Treasurer of this country because of methods used by  Mr Lynch.  We have as yet not found out the truth.  Mr Lynch  and his family did not have to pay tax on whatever they earned because of the setting up of a family trust. It was quite legitimate under the law of the time but I would say it was morally wrong in the face of what the Government has always preached. Why should members of the Government take that action when they preach that others should not?  Mr Howard  said: 
In a practical sense a Prime Minister in the Westminster system holds office while he enjoys the support of the party commanding a majority in the lower House of Parliament. 
Let us examine that statement briefly. He made those remarks in 1974. What was his attitude on 1 1 November 1975 when a vote was taken in the House of Representatives? I happened to be sitting in that chamber at the time. A motion of no confidence in the caretaker Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  was passed. Did  Mr Howard  then come out with a storm of protest? Of course he did not. He was quite happy to go along with what the now Prime Minister had done- skulking behind doors and sneaking over to Government House and entering into negotiations behind the back of the then Prime Minister. 
Another person is now looming on the political scene. He will be a member of this chamber shortly. He is a man who is now disenchanted with the Liberal Party; and not for the first time. I can remember that some years ago he was disenchanted with the Liberal Party. I refer to Senator-elect Chipp. When he was dropped from the Cabinet once before he ran around the place calling the Liberal Party all the names to which he could lay his tongue. When he was accepted back into the fold everything was nice.  Mr Chipp  has now heaped a lot of criticism on the present Prime Minister. I agree with a lot of it but I do not agree with his moral values. He was one who took part in the negotiations in the party room. 
He sets out in his book- all the toings and froings about Government House to engineer the overthrow of the Whitlam Government. He did not squeal about what happened then and say that it was undemocratic. What did he do? As soon as the caretaker government was installed he grabbed a caretaker portfolio with both hands. He opted to be a Minister in a caretaker government. What happened after the election?  Mr Fraser  did not select him as a Minister.  Mr Chipp  turned sour again. We know the sequence of events since. When he comes into this place in the Budget session he will often be asked to answer for some of those criticisms. I refer to what  Mr Howard  said on page 2558 of  Hansard  of 17 October. I agree with his view. In talking about overseas trips he said: 
I have no cavil at all with the right of the present Australian Prime Minister to make overseas trips. The only quarrel we on this side of the chamber have with the actions of the Prime Minister in this respect is that he demonstrates a deplorable lack of perspective. If indeed the most pressing problems facing the Australian nation at the moment were problems of our international relations which demanded the Australian Prime Minister being away from this country . . . 
There has been no greater crisis in the history of this country, apart from the time of war, than that which exists now. Looking back over the record we find people who are now Ministers criticising  Mr Whitlam  for going overseas. Now their own Prime Minister is doing the same thing and they are being completely dumb. They are not saying a word about it.  Mr Howard  went on to say: 
But the sad fact is that the problems that really concern Australia at the moment are domestic economic problems. 
What he said in 1974 is exactly true in 1978; only more so. He continued: 
These are our major problems at the moment. We do not challenge the principle of the Prime Minister going overseas, but we challenge his lamentable lack of perspective. 
What I challenge now is the present Prime Minister's lack of perspective in going overseas and leaving his Government in the hands of his Cabinet Ministers, many of whom are under suspicion for many actions that they have already taken. No doubt the actions they will take in his absence will be in the same category. On 24 November 1974, a statement was made by the Acting Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony.  Talking about  Mr Whitlam,  he said: 
If he stayed at home a little more instead of strutting the world stage he might find out what is going on. 
Questions were directed to the Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers)  in this chamber this morning about the proposed 40 per cent tariff cuts. What answers were given to the Opposition members?  Senator Withers  could not tell them- or he would not tell them; he knows what is going on. We are greatly suspicious about that aspect. I will repeat the Acting Prime Minister's words on 24 November 1974.  His  Press release stated: 
If he stayed at home a little more instead of strutting the world stage he might find out what is going on. 
I think it was  Senator Wriedt,  our Leader, who posed the question this morning about tariff cuts. Will we have to wait for  Mr Fraser  to make his announcement in America in a few day's time on what the tariff policy will be? Why did he not take notice of what his Acting Prime Minister said when, in Opposition, he criticised  Mr Whitlam  for strutting around the world. The Prime Minister is doing the very same thing but he will not achieve the same good results as Whitlam, I can assure honourable senators. 
On page 28 of  Hansard of 28  November 1974, from which I have already quoted,  Mr Nixon,  the Minister for Transport, when he was in Opposition said: 
Let us put this whole trip into perspective. The Australian economy has never been in such tatters since the depression. 
Those chickens are coming home to roost now. He continued: 
The whole of the nation is uncertain. Industry, employers, and employees are uncertain as to where this nation is heading. We have an inflation rate which is the highest ever in our history. 
On many points he was right if that statement were applied to today but he was not right, as senators on this side have said, in saying that when Labor was in government we had the highest inflation rate in history. I have had tables incorporated in  Hansard  on more than one occasion to give the complete lie to the claim of honourable senators opposite that we had the highest inflation rate in history when we were in government. At that time inflation reached about 1 7 per cent. In this document  Mr Nixon  said that it had reached 20 per cent or more. 
Let us take our minds back to the second year of the Menzies Government in 1951. What was the inflation rate then? It was 25 per cent, and the record proves it. It was at least eight per cent more under a Liberal government than it had ever been under a Labor government. Of course Government supporters make great claims now that because of the Government's policies inflation has been reduced. How has that been done? Hundreds of thousands of workers have been thrown on to the scrap heap. As I said earlier, the Government will not even provide a few dollars to retrain these people so that they will have some prospect of earning a decent living and going forward as decent honest citizens. But the Government will not do that. It made all these promises in its policy speech; it made all these criticisms of us when we were in government. But now we can throw them back to Government members because they are doing the very same that they accused us of doing. 
Now I will look at another statement which was put out by  Mr Peacock,  another Minister. Goodness me, he is never home. He is always flitting around the world and I would say that our foreign policy has never been in greater tatters than it is today. This statement is headed: The Liberal Party of Australia, Federal Secretariat' from 'The  Hon.  Andrew Peacock, M.P., Shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs'. It was made on 27 September 1974 about  Mr Whitlam  's trip. He said: 
The obvious aim of this junket is to strive for a temporary restoration of the Prime Minister's waning image at home, even if that means downgrading his own Cabinet Ministers in the eyes of the world community. 
There you are! The chickens are coming home to roost again. The Labor Cabinet was never in the chaos in which this one is. We never had the suspicion thrown on our members. On at least two occasions when it was felt that two of our Ministers had inadvertently made statements to the Parliament that were not true, those Ministers were removed from the Cabinet. But this Government will not do that. Of course it will not. Where is its democracy? These Ministers are left to hold office. 
In another Press release put out on 9 December 1974,  Mr Lynch,  who has now been relegated, described  Mr Whitlam  's trip as 'gross irresponsibility at a time of economic crisis'. As I said, we have never had any greater crisis in this country, apart from war time, than today under this Government. The Prime Minister is strutting around the world stage just as members of his Party accused our Prime Minister. If we go a bit further another Press statement put out by  Mr Phillip  Lynch four days later stated: 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Phillip  Lynch, today accused the Prime Minister of living  in an ivory tower. 
He should be made to eat those words now because his Prime Minister is doing the same. Another Press statement put out by  Mr Lynch  a few days later, on 13 December 1974, stated: 
Australians looking to their Prime Minister for leadership will be saddened and disappointed but hardly surprised in view of his obvious preference for the world stage. 
Again that comment applies to the present Prime Minister. I think from the documents that I have just quoted and from other events that will take place in the next few months, people who sit opposite will have to be very careful in the way they criticise the Labor Party and its members both when it is in government and even in opposition. Those statements will always come back to haunt them. One would think that because those people made those statements they would not do the very same themselves; but they do, and they do so repeatedly. 
I shall conclude my remarks by talking about a person who has now departed this chamber. It will be recalled that for quite some time on an Estimates committee I have sought information on the expenditure of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation; but I cannot get that information. I have asked for it repeatedly but it is a closed book; nobody knows. An appropriation is given for ASIO in the Budget each year. But we cannot question it. It never spends any less or any more than has been appropriated. So members of Parliament cannot ask questions. Even on the supplementary Estimates this year, I asked a question whether the accounts of ASIO were audited. I addressed this question to a representative of the Auditor-General. I was told that they were not audited. I forgive the officer for making a mistake; he did not know, just as we do not know many things that go on in ASIO and how it spends its money. In a letter dated 5 May, addressed to  Senator Sim  who is the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Mr D.  R. Steele Craik, the Auditor-General stated: 
Dear  Senator Sim, 
At the Committee Hearing yesterday  Senator McLaren  asked my representative,  Mr Taylor,  whether or not my Office audited the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and was answered in the negative. As my Office does, in fact, audit the accounts of ASIO I take this opportunity to correct the record. 
The accounts of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation are audited by my Office under arrangements agreed in 1949 between the then Prime Minister and Treasurer and the then Auditor-General. These arrangements provide for a normal audit of transactions and include as pan of that audit the provision of a certificate by the Director-General of Security in respect of a minor portion of the expenditure and by the responsible Minister certifying that that portion of the expenditure was properly made in the interests of the Public Service. I accept these certificates in completion of the audits. This arrangement is patterned on the British practice dating back to the late 1 9th century. 
Would you please accept my apologies for the incorrect answer. This correction might be included in the record and the information passed to  Senator McLaren. 
Yours sincerely 
R. STEELE CRAIK 
Auditor-General 
Now we find out that in fact the Auditor-General looks at portion of the expenditure of ASIO. I wanted to know how this money is spent and where it is spent, but I was always told that these facts could not be found out. Following the replacement some time ago of the South Australian Police Commissioner,  Mr Salisbury,  a former Premier of South Australia and former senator tried to big note himself, as quite a lot of the South Australian Liberal senators do, by making certain allegations. I refer to an article in one of the newspapers under the headline 'Hall blames the Left '. 
Each year an appropriation of approximately $6m is sought for ASIO but nobody knows what ASIO does with it. Even the letter from the Auditor-General stated that the AuditorGeneral's Office takes the word of the Minister that it has been properly spent 
After the next Federal election and the Labor Party is returned to office I hope that we will be able to explore these matters. It is all very well for honourable senators opposite to laugh but at the moment the Government is falling apart at the seams. If honourable senators opposite look at the opinion polls- we have quite a way to go yet; the rot is only just starting to set in- they will see that their leader is only one per cent ahead of  Mr Hayden  in popularity. It is rumoured that the Government intends to increase postage rates after 30 June. This rumour is running rife through the corridors today. The Government will not wait for the Budget to increase postage charges. It will do it now and hope that the people will forget it. All these things will add up. The rot has set in. I prophesy that after the next election we will be back on the other side of the House. We will put every person in this country who wants a job back to work. We will instil confidence in the people of this country. We will not make false promises, as  Mr Fraser  did. We will put the people back to work and we will not be railroaded out of office by the silvertails and a Governor-General who was bought by the Liberal Party. We will not be railroaded out of office like that. We have learnt our lesson. We know how honourable senators on the other side operate. 
We know how they used this chamber to bludgeon us when they were in opposition and we were in government. I have said on many occasions that this chamber is only a rubber stamp when honourable senators opposite are in office and a House of frustration when they are in opposition. Democracy goes out the window when they are in government. But for the untimely death of one of our colleagues,  Senator Millner,  they might not be seated where they are today. They walked over a dead man's body to gain office. That is not morally right and it is not democratic. I hope that the remarks I have made today have caused some honourable senators opposite to read some of the statements I have made. They are on record. They should then ask themselves how they are being treated by members of the ministry. Honourable senators opposite are being treated as puppets. They are being used as political fodder. 
I think  Senator Sim,  the  Chairman  of Estimates Committee A, and  Senator Douglas  McClelland have covered most of the substantative and important issues involved in this matter, but I think there are one or two points which ought to be on the record. I refer to page 404 of the  Hansard  record of consideration given to these estimates by Estimates Committee A on 8 May. With respect to the conference vote to which  Senator Douglas  McClelland has referred, an officer of the Foreign Affairs Department is recorded as saying: 
I think that what it amounts to is that the dispute has been removed from the Additional Estimates to another area, that is, in relation to the Advance to the Treasurer. 
Following some questions that had been asked by myself and by  Senator McLaren  in particular on the same matter, the Committee was once again advised by another officer as follows: 
We were advised by the Department of Finance that the amount was to come from the Advance to the Minister for Finance. 
That seems to be clear enough. I must raise a question in relation to that and in relation to the letter received from the Acting Minister for Finance  (Mr Howard)  dated 22 May in which he points out: 
In the event, a drawing from that Advance of $70,000, making a total of $120,000 for the item, was approved last week. 
That seems to me to raise a question as to when this decision was made and by whom? When was the decision made by the Department, when was the decision made by the Minister and who in fact made the decision? It would seem to me that the Minister should have been the person making the decision and that that apparently occurred in the week before 22 May. Yet on 8 May the Estimates Committee was told that the Department of Finance had informed the Department of Foreign Affairs that this amount could be drawn from the Advance to the Minister for Finance. It seems to me to be the sort of question that must be dealt with by the Senate 
Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. It is the sort of issue that is fundamental to the role of this Parliament. Following the remarks made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland I think that it is worth recalling that in the Constitution of this nation it is the Parliament that comes first; it is the Parliament that has precedence. The Executive is a result of the Parliament. In these cases it is the Parliament that must have the power to scrutinise expenditure or proposed expenditure. When there seems to be some uncertainty as to how the decision was reached and by whom, I would hope that the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations would look at the matter, as is proposed by  Senator Sim.  The Minister also said:   at the cut-off date for printing the Bills, the Government had not been able to complete its examination of the merits of the two different perceptions of foreseen need . . . 
Again, that seems to me to raise a fundamental issue. If these matters are to be put by the Executive before the Parliament then quite obviously they have to be resolved beforehand. We have had difficulty in recent times with the flow of legislation to this Parliament and particularly to this chamber. It is a matter to which I believe the Executive and  Senator Rae's  Committee must address itself. That is, the preparation of material for this Parliament clearly must be given greater priority and should be given precedence. When it can be said by a member of the Executive to the Parliament: 'We are awfully sorry but we just did not get it ready in time' I must say quite frankly that that is not good enough. It seems to me to be the fundamental problem to which  Senator Rae's  Committee must address itself under the terms of the motion moved by  Senator Sim.  In such matters the Executive has to give priority to the requirements of the Parliament. As I have already mentioned, the Parliament has clear precedence in the Constitution of this nation. That is particularly important when this Parliament is dealing with financial matters of such significance through its Estimates committees. 
I refer to the question of conferences in general. As is obvious from what has been said already by others and by me in my earlier remarks, there was some uncertainty about the program of international conferences at which the Australian Government could be represented because of the apparent dispute which has arisen as to the amount of money that would be available. The Committee received a letter from the Department of Foreign Affairs which indicated that it required, together with other departments, in the vicinity of $200,000 for delegate officers to attend the conferences which it believed were necessary- it used the term 'inescapable commitments' -if Australia was effectively to meet its priorities in its international relationships. It was pointed out that if only $50,000 were provided only one of these conferences, the International Labour Organisation conference, could be attended. The ILO conference is undoubtedly one of major importance and significance although some honourable senators may not necessarily share that view. I think it is a conference which is of some importance and one at which we should be represented. But there is a two page list of conferences at which Australia might not be represented because of this decision. That list already excludes a number of other important meetings. Obviously there was great uncertainty about the international conferences at which Australia could be represented. That obviously had significant implications for Australian foreign policy and the conduct of our relationships internationally and our participation in important conferences. 
It seems to me that these sorts of matters ought not to be matters of such great uncertainty right up to the very day when an Estimates committee is getting down to examining, on behalf of the Parliament, the expenditure involved. In fact these sorts of matters should have been solved long before they had to come before an Estimates committee. I hope that in addressing itself to these issues these related matters will also be considered by  Senator Rae's  committee. They are matters important not only to this Parliament but also to the conduct of Australia 's foreign relations. Therefore that in itself is important to this Parliament and something which each of us has to take as a matter of significance because of our responsibility in these areas as members of this Parliament. That is directly affected by the provision of funds. In situations in which there are disputes between departments, uncertainty even when these matters are brought before the Parliament, I say again that that is not good enough. 
I follow on what  Senator Douglas  McClelland has said. I acknowledge his expertise and experience in this area because of his background as a reporter. I support what he has said about the  Hansard  staff. It is worth recalling that the Parliamentary Reporting Staff, or  Hansard  as it is generally known, has a very long tradition, dating back to the eighteenth century. Most important to this institution as a parliament is that  Hansard's  role is fundamental in the reporting of proceedings not just in the chambers but in the committee rooms of Parliament House and throughout Australia. That is one of the matters to which I wish to refer subsequently. An enormous amount of effort is spent in travelling and reporting. Frequently, the circumstances are rather difficult. The preparation of the facilities and setting up the machinery that is necessary for  Hansard  to carry out its activities, at times in rather difficult situations, are additional factors to consider. 
It was in 1901, straight after Federation, that the Australian Parliamentary Reporting Staff was established. I understand that at the time it consisted of nine 'gentlemen '. It was only in 1 969 that the first woman was appointed to the  Hansard  staff. The parliamentary reporters are a very highly skilled group without whom this Parliament could not function effectively because it is essential that its proceedings are reported quickly and accurately. This is the special skill for which  Hansard  is properly renowned.  Senator Douglas  McClelland has quite rightly referred to the difficulty in obtaining  Hansard  reporters for the Commonwealth Parliament. Considerable competition for staff comes from State parliaments and from the courts. It is my understandingI think this is of interest- that Tasmania which has not a parliamentary reporting staff has now decided to create a  Hansard  staff. I understand that that decision was taken only last month. The Tasmanian Parliament will be advertising for such staff. Therefore there will be an even heavier demand on the very limited pool within Australia of highly skilled reporters. I think that ought to be cause for the Parliament to consider ever more carefully the information which is now contained in the record of the proceedings of Estimates Committee A with respect to the salary scales, the terms and conditions of employment and the problems faced in many instances by members of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Reporting Staff. I think it is worth pointing out that much of the information contained in the  Hansard  record of those proceedings was obtained through the process of the question and answer procedure that was followed during the consideration of the Estimates by Estimates Committee A. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland has gone into some detail with respect to the relative numbers of reporting staffs in other areas, the hours of sitting in other parliaments and so on, but it is worth emphasising that the Parliamentary Reporting Staff of this Parliament is now under considerable pressure. There have been difficulties with respect to recruiting and there are difficulties with respect to salary. Quite frankly, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland has said, the salaries of the members of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff of this Parliament are not commensurate with the demands that are imposed upon the people who have to undertake this work not only in Canberra but also throughout the rest of Australia, and at the oddest of hours. The job entails extensive travel. All members of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff have to travel quite widely, as members of this Parliament would know. Frequently parliamentary committees travel to and meet in places as far apart as Darwin, Alice Springs, Perth, Hobart and Melbourne and members of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff have to be on hand to report those committee proceedings. They have to carry the materials necessary to report those proceedings, particularly the tape recording machinery that is often used in these situations. They do not have an easy task. They have to meet airline schedules, they have to travel in Commonwealth cars and they have to be away from their families, just as members of this Parliament. They have to face all those problems. 
It seems to me that all those matters ought to be recognised- as I see it, they are not adequately recognised- in the salaries and terms of conditions of service provided for members of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff. It seems to me also that perhaps the Public Service Board has been somewhat inflexible in this case. As  Senator Douglas  McClelland has indicated, many pleas have been made over many years for improved salaries and, in particular, for improved terms and conditions of service but these pleas have been ignored. There is a need now in this Parliament for additional Parliamentary Reporting Staff. I think that in an endeavour to obtain them, particularly given the fact that another State Parliament is to establish a Parliamentary Reporting Staff, there is a need now to look much more carefully and, on the part of the Public Service Board, much more flexibly at the question of the terms and conditions of the members of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff of this Parliament. As I have said before, the service  Hansard  provides is crucial to the Parliament, but it is also important to the public that what is said and done in this place is recorded quickly and is available to the community as soon as possible. I think it is important in this debate on the deliberations of Estimates Committee A to put on record the fact that there are members of this Parliament who are keen, in their interests and in the interests of this Parliament and of the community as a whole, to support a proposal for improved conditions for the Parliamentary Reporting Staff. 
There are certain points that I feel ought to be emphasised. The first is that members of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff are paid a salary but are not paid overtime. Obviously they have to work very odd hours. As I have mentioned, they work the same hours as Parliament sits but, apart from that, they have frequently to travel at weekends to far-flung corners of the continent. They do not have the option of receiving overtime for that. 
I understand that they can take leave in lieu of overtime but the point is that if they all took all the leave for which they were eligible in lieu of the overtime they worked it would only compound the very serious problem of the availability of staff. If people were to take sick leave and recreation leave, which are both essential anyhow, it would only compound those problems. It therefore becomes impossible to take leave in lieu of overtime. As I understand it the members of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff rarely seek leave in lieu of the overtime they work and therefore obtain no benefit for it. For working odd hours, disrupting their family life and travelling all over this continent while serving this Parliament, serving the Australian community, they receive no benefit. To me, that is not only inequitable but also, given the role of this Parliament, rather foolish. 
I think  Senator Douglas  McClelland suggested that some form of allowance should be paid. That seems to me to be an appropriate suggestion. Ministerial officers receive an allowance. However, I see some difficulty in equating the work of members of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff with that of ministerial officers. I do not see that as an entirely appropriate comparison. It would seem to me that there could be a case for establishing a special employment category for the Parliament Reporting Staff. I have already referred to the fact that the traditions of the reporting staff go back to the eighteenth century and that in this Parliament they go back to Federation. Surely we ought to recognise that and recognise the particular problems and the particular demands that go with the job. It seems to me that there is a case for considering not some sort of parallel arrangements with other employees in Parliament House but some special employment category that would take into account the special terms and conditions of service of the members of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland has also referred to the remarkable percentage of retirements that have occurred because of ill-health. I think that speaks for itself, given the pressures of the job and the demands of the job, and it ought to be taken into account. It seems to me that the points made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland are valid. In the interests of this Parliament and of the community we ought to ensure that the members of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Reporting Staff are paid properly and, even more importantly, that they are provided with additional benefits to make up for the particular and peculiar problems and difficulties that go with the job, which is a job with a long tradition and one that is very important to this Parliament and to the Australian community. 
I would like very briefly to mention three other matters relating to Parliament House. The first is a matter which I have raised with the  President  of the Senate and before the Estimates Committee. It relates to the provision of guard boxes for the Commonwealth Police guarding Parliament House. Winter is upon us and the nights are cold. I believe that it is unfair to compel these people, who are serving the Parliament, to stand out in Canberra 's cold winter when, as 1 understand, police boxes are available. They might not be aesthetically ideal but they would be warmer for the people involved. If it is not possible to use those guard boxes, perhaps we could look quickly at what alternatives are available. I understand that this is being done. I would simply like to put on record that I hope that it is done quickly because the temperature is dropping rapidly. 
The second point also is related to the Commonwealth Police. As security arrangements in Parliament House have been intensified in recent months the number of Commonwealth policemen and policewomen working here has increased proportionately. Their accommodation now is most inadequate. I understand that the Presiding Officers are aware of this matter. I have had a look at the accommodation available and I can only say that 'inadequate' is the kindest possible expression which could be used to describe it. I hope that some action will be taken as quickly as possible to provide more adequate accommodation in terms of a place to eat, to keep personal effects and so on during the hours of duty for the Commonwealth Police who are guarding Parliament House. On the question of security, I note that the need for guard boxes and the need to provide proper facilities for those who are guarding Parliament House obviously is important to the security of this building. Time does not permit me to say any more about that at this time. I end on the note that I believe it is important to the Parliament and therefore ought to be pursued with some speed. 
I ask the Minister for Education: Following  Senator Wriedt  's statement that the Australian Labor Party does not support compulsion in the payment of fees to certain organisations on university campuses, does the Minister welcome that adoption of a bipartisan approach to this matter? Secondly, can the Minister say whether it is a fact that the measures which he has now announced are to ensure individual freedom on university campuses, particularly the freedom of association, and to ensure that those sorts of freedoms are in fact preserved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 13 April 1978: 
1 ) What form of assistance has Australia provided, either through international organisations or through bilateral programs, to assist in the control of world population growth. 
What was Australia's financial contribution to each program. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations a question relating to the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act. Have Australian Public Service organisations lodged a case with the International Labour Organisation against several provisions of the Act? Can the Minister say whether the ILO has sought further information from the Government on some of the major clauses of the Act and which clauses these are? Finally, has the Government responded to the ILO? If not, when is it expected that the Government will respond? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, refers to the second report of the Bailey task force which deals with various welfare and community services and which was tabled recently. I mention that the report stated that these services in the Territories- I refer particularly to the Australian Capital Territory- are complex and confusing and lack machinery for coordination. The Bailey task force recommended a thorough inquiry at an early date in the following terms: 
The object of the review would be to recommend ways of providing consultative mechanisms, and of simplifying, coordinating and rationalising the development of policy and the activities of administration and service delivery in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
Can the Minister say what action is proposed by the Federal Government on this recommendation? 
-On behalf of  Senator Chaney  I present the following petition from 10 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned members and ex members of the Citizens Forces of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
On 14 February 1975, the then Australian Government deprived the Officers and men of the Australian Citizen Naval Military and Air Forces of the distinctive and historic Decorations and Medals for long service and good conduct, namely the Reserve Decoration, the Efficiency Decoration, the Air Efficiency Award, the Efficiency Medal and Long Service and Good Conduct Medals, awarded for long and meritorious voluntary service in the citizen forces: 
The proposed substitution of the National Medal for these Decorations and Medals varies the principle of selective recognition of efficient voluntary service in the citizen forces in that it recognizes the period of service only and embraces also full time as well in the defence forces as in the police, fire brigade and ambulance services: 
This deprivation caused and is continuing to cause serious discontent amongst personnel of the Citizen Forces who willingly and cheerfully give their spare time outside their normal full time civilian careers, to serve Her Majesty and Australia: 
The Reserve Forces of Australia have been recognised by the present Government as a valuable- and costeffective component of the Defence Forces. Anomalously, whilst the Government is actually supporting recruiting for these Forces it has imposed and continued this deprivation which as foresaid has depressed the morale of the Citizen Forces: 
Her Majesty has not cancelled the said Decorations and Medals. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray 
Your Honourable House take appropriate action to resume the award of the several distinctive Reserve Forces Decorations and Medals for Long Service and Good Conduct to members of the Royal Australian Naval Reserve, Army Reserve (CMF) and the RAAF Citizen Air Force. 
Petition received an read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What action has been taken by the Minister's Department concerning Recommendation 276 of the Report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, which suggests that a task force on Australia and International Economic Issues should be established. 
I present the following petition from  122  citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of the Commonwealth in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
. We support the construction of the City Bus Interchange as part of the plan to upgrade Canberra's public transport system. 
The facility will provide bus users with long overdue protection from Canberra 's extreme climate. 
lt will also provide an information bureau and other amenities for bus users and drivers. 
That the proposed site at the corner of London Circuit and Northbourne Avenue is the most central for the majority of bus users. 
The site also gives the speediest bus access to Northbourne Avenue, the major traffic artery. 
It is envisaged that the Interchange, by encouraging greater use of public transport, will help to reduce car congestion, noise and exhaust pollution in Civic. 
We support first class landscaping around the buildings to ensure they blend in with the present environment. 
Your petitioners ask that the Senate urge the Minister for the Capital Territory to take urgent action on the construction of the City Bus Interchange. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. In view of Canberra's role as the national capital, its relative advantages with respect to security measures, its increasing and potential importance as a national and international conference centre and the significance to the city of this and the related tourist industry, I ask the Minister whether the Government will consider the construction of a major national conference or convention centre in Canberra? 
Like  Senator Colston  I do not think it is necessary at this stage to canvass the background to this legislation. It has been the subject of debate in another place and in the community. I want to make just a few points about the legislation, particularly relating to the High Court decision to which  Senator Colston  referred. I think it is necessary to make the point that the decision of the High Court appeared to the Government to mean that the whole area of recruitment into and promotion within the Public Service could be removed from the control of the Public Service Board and departmental management by the Public Service Arbitrator. As the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  pointed out in his second reading speech, it has been traditionally accepted that this is an area in which the Arbitrator's determinations were not intended to operate and should not operate. One of the major purposes of this legislation has been to put into legislative form what has been traditionally accepted as the existing situation. 
As I understand it some consideration was given to this matter in 1922. The outcome of that consideration was in many ways indeterminate and the matter has since been left in that state. Again, referring to what the Minister said in this second reading speech, in the public sector it has traditionally been accepted that these areasrecruitment and promotion within the Public Service- have been matters to which the Arbitrator's determinations have not applied and  have not been intended to apply. The Minister made a statement in his second reading speech to which I would like to refer. He said: 
The Parliament has clearly intended that the area of vital importance to the standing of the Service - 
That is, the Public Service-   . . recruitment, selection and promotion procedures, should be a matter for management decision. There is nothing unusual about this- it is the same principle which applies in the private sector where employers have the right to recruit the employees whom they choose. But in the Public Service there is a special need that it be the Parliament and the Board exercising the powers vested in it by the Parliament which determines principles and procedures governing recruitment, selection and promotion. 
I reiterate that this has been the traditionally accepted view since 1922. For 56 years this has been the way it has operated and this legislation to amend the Public Service Arbitration Act, following a decision by the High Court which gave clear interpretation to the law which differed from traditional practices, will put into effect what has traditionally been the accepted situation. I would like also to quote a further statement from the second reading speech which I think is important to this legislation. The Minister said: 
The Government believes it has the responsibility to the public to state clearly and unambiguously that the responsibility for determining the procedures relating to recruitment, selection and promotion in the Public Service shall remain with the Public Service Board and the management of Commonwealth departments and authorities. 
That, of course, is the purpose of the legislation. The Minister stated in his second reading speech that this is not a remarkable or unusual decision, that it is similar to the practice followed in the private sector for employers to have these rights with respect to recruitment and promotion and that in fact this legislation makes clear what has been the traditionally accepted practice since 1922. As I understand it there are also similar provisions for the various public services in the States of the Commonwealth. I seek leave to incorporate a document which summarises these matters relating to the States. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

PROVISIONS IN STATE LEGISLATION RELATING TO STATE PUBLIC SERVANTS-DETERMINATION OF CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT 
There is nothing unusual about restricting the powers of the Arbitrator on matters which the Government feels that it, as an employer, should exercise power through a Public Service Board. Such restrictions reflect the approaches of State Governments which, to a greater or lesser extent, have restricted the areas in which industrial tribunals can exercise jurisdiction in relation to public servants. Although the position in some of the States is not clear cut, the position appears to be as follows: 
Victoria- The recruitment^ appointment and promotion of officers in the public service are within the prerogative of the Public Service Board. The Board is also empowered to determine pay and other terms and conditions of employment of officers in the public service other than teachers and police which have separate wage fixing tribunals. The decisions of the Board and the teachers and police tribunals are final, subject only to possible disallowance by Parliament. The Labour and Industry Act makes no provision in relation to public servants. 
Tasmania- The Public Service Act provides that the powers in relation to appointments, promotions and transfers, et cetera, of public servants are exercised by the Public Service Board. The Board may also make awards determining such matters as salaries, hours of work, allowances and other traditional industrial issues. However, there is no provision for such awards to deal with matters such as appointment of officers, et cetera. The jurisdiction of the Public Service Arbitrator under the Act is confined to arbitrating on awards made by the Board or refusals by the Board to make awards, and reviewing salary determinations made by a controlling authority. 
Western Australia- Under the Western Australian Public Service Act the Board is empowered to determine salaries and conditions governing payment of salaries and, upon the recommendation of the Board, the Governor may make regulations covering conditions of employment. Under the Public Service Arbitration Act, in relation to Government officers, the Arbitrator may determine claims submitted to him relating to salaries, increments and allowances applicable to Government officers. Apart from those matters, the Board would seem to have exclusive power to set the terms and conditions of employment for public servants. 
South Australia- The South Australian Public Service Act provides for the appointment (including promotion) to an office in the public service by the Public Service Board except in relation to positions above a certain salary level, which are made by the Governor on the recommendation of the Board. The Act also empowers the Board to determine salaries and conditions of service. Decisions of the Board relating to salaries and conditions of employment are subject to awards of the SA Industrial Commission. However, there is nothing to suggest that such awards in relation to conditions of employment could include matters such as appointment and promotion of officers in the public service. On the contrary, section 45 of the Public Service Act provides that 'Notwithstanding anything in any other Act, appointment to an office shall be made as provided for in this Act and not by any other person or authority'. 
Queensland- Under the Public Service Act appointments to the public service are made by the Governor on the recommendation of the Public Service Board. The Board, with the approval of the Governor in Council may make regulations governing conditions of employment. There is also provision for the Governor, upon the recommendation of the Board, to determine salaries, subject to the provisions of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
New South Wales- Whilst decisions of the Public Service Board on pay determinations and employment conditions are appealable to the NSW Industrial Commission, the NSW Arbitration Act provides that nothing in the Act authorises the making of an award which is inconsistent with Part II A of the Public Service Act. Part II A of that Act deals with appeals against promotion of officers. The Commission does not appear to have made a decision on the question of whether appoinment of officers in the public service is an 'industrial matter' for the purposes of the Industrial Arbitration Act. 
Many issues have been raised by those who are quite properly interested in this legislation. The point has been made, for example, that government employees have had the general opportunity to present a case in arbitration on any matter related to employment conditions. This point was made by  Senator Colston.  As I have suggested, since the decision of 1 922, to which I referred earlier, these matters have not been referred in this way. The situation has been clarified by the High Court in relation to the existing law. This legislation now puts into effect what has been the practice over that period of 56 years. 
Some attention has been given to the question of appeals against outside appointments to the Public Service above the base grade. This refers particularly in this case to recruitment and also to promotion. This provision would not apply in the private sector if people were being employed from outside a particular profession or industry. It also would not apply if people being employed in the private sector came from the public sector. I think it is worth bearing that in mind when suggesting that these provisions ought to apply to the Public Service. I also understand that this does not occur in the States where outside recruitment to the public services occurs. However, agreement was reached between the Public Service Board and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations with respect to possible review of appeals against recruitment from outside and promotion opportunities. Because the hour is late I seek leave of the Senate to incorporate in  Hansard  the text of part of the agreement that relates to the establishment of a review panel similar to a promotion appeals committee. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Establish a review panel similar to a Promotions Appeal Committee comprising an officer of the Board, an officer of the Department of E &amp; IR and a staff association nominee to review cases where APS applicants have not been selected for interview or have been interviewed and assessed as not suitable. The role of the review panel would be: 
for a person not interviewed who sought a review; to assess on the papers whether he or she warranted an interview; and if so to refer the person to one of the selection committees for interview. 
for a person interviewed and assessed as not suitable who sought a review: to assess on the papers and if after interview where requested, whether he or she warranted a second interview de novo by a selection committee which had not previously interviewed that person. 
Any application for a review by a person to whom this paragraph applies shall be made in writing and shall be lodged with the relevant Public Service Inspector not later than seven working days after the date of the notification that he or she is not to be interviewed or that he or she has been assessed as not suitable for promotion, as the case may be. 
Any such application shall set out ground(s) in support including a statement by the applicant on the reasons given by the selection committee for non-interview or for assessment as not suitable for promotion, as the case may be. 
Any person who has sought a review of his or her case will be identified to the central (or national) committee, which will give close attention to the claims of such persons in its overall review of the order of merit. 
This agreement which was reached is not considered by the authorities to extend beyond the Commonwealth Employment Service dispute which gave rise to this legislation. The agreement illustrates that the Government and the relevant authorities have been prepared to be flexible and to consider- in fact in this case to agree to- review provisions relating to appointees from outside the Public Service above the base grade level. I think it is worth emphasising that this is a special provision for the Public Service. 
There has been considerable reference to the stand down provisions of this Public Service Arbitration Amendment Bill before the Senate. There has been a tendency to give this point less attention than was given to the earlier elements to which I have referred but I think it is of considerable significance. The provisions of the Bill state that a stand down order- which under this legislation is now clearly the prerogative of the Public Service Arbitrator- can be made so that the period of stand down will not count for the purposes of wages or remuneration and certain allowances; nor will it count for the purposes of accruing recreation leave, sick leave and long service leave- although in the case of the latter the period of stand down will not be considered to be a break in the continuity of service of the public servants stood down. That matter was of considerable concern to me and also to the honourable member for Canberra, John Haslem. We sought detailed advice on these provisions from the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  particularly as to whether there were similar provisions in other areas of employment. Subsequently we were provided with a detailed statement from the Minister on these matters. Once again I seek leave of the Senate to have that document incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The Public Service Arbitration Amendment Bill 1978 provides that the Public Service Arbitrator or a Deputy Arbitrator may make orders authorising the standing down of officers and employees who are concerned in, or affected by, or are likely to be concerned in, or affected by, an industrial situation. The Bill further provides that an officer or employee who is stood down will not be entitled to salary, wages or other remuneration and allowances in the nature of salary or wages in respect of a period for which he is stood down. Nor will the period of stand down count as service for the purposes of recreation leave, long service leave and sick leave. A period of stand down will not break an officer's or employee 's continuity of employment for long service leave purposes. In addition the Public Service Arbitrator or a Deputy Arbitrator will be able to give directions concerning other conditions of employment of stood down officers and employees. 
In his Second Reading Speech introducing the Bill into the House, the Minister said: 'The general effect of these provisions is to equate stand down as closely as possible to that which obtains under awards of the Commission '. 
A survey which was conducted by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations in August of last year revealed that at that time there were in excess of 300 awards of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission with provisions enabling stand down or deduction of pay for any day when employees cannot be usefully employed because of any strike or cause for which the employer cannot reasonably be held responsible. A list containing a cross section of those awards is attached (Attachment 'A'). 
The provisions of the Metal Industry Award serve as an example of the stand down provision typical in most awards. Sub-clause (e) (standing down of employees) of clause 6 (contract of employment) of that award provides: 
The employer shall have the right to deduct payment for any day the employee cannot be usefully employed because of any strike or through any breakdown in machinery or any stoppage of work by any cause for which the employer cannot reasonably be held responsible. ' 
Under most of the awards loss of working time by an employee due to his being stood down without pay in terms of the relevant award provision is not counted as part of the qualifying period for annual leave entitlement, although it will not break the continuity of service for such leave. Attachment 'B', the relevant provisions of the Metal Industry Award, is a typical example. 
Similarly, awards of the Commission relating to long service leave provide that interruption or termination of employment arising directly or indirectly from an industrial dispute is deemed as not breaking continuity of employment provided the employee returns to work in accordance with the settlement terms of the dispute but the period of absence from duty does not count for long service leave purposes. Attachment 'C contains the relevant provision in the Metal Trades (Long Service Leave) Award which is virtually a standard prescription in federal long service leave awards. 
From the examples given it is clear that the provisions in awards of the Commission concerning stand downs and their effect on annual leave and long service leave entitlements are very similar to those proposed in the Bill in relation to Commonwealth employees, and are based on the principle that a person who is stood down generally should not be entitled to the benefits of the award in respect of the period during which he is stood down. 
With regard to the effect of stand downs on sick leave entitlements, it is not usual for federal awards which contain stand down provisions to provide that sick leave entitlements are affected by such stand downs. However, in general, sick leave entitlements under federal awards are much less generous than those applicable to employees in the Commonwealth Public Service. 
Permanent employees of the Public Service are entitled to sick leave to the extent of two weeks on full pay and two weeks on half pay per year, which is effectively three weeks on full pay per year. Of that entitlement, five days per year may be taken without the production of a medical certificate. Moreover, sick leave entitlements accrue from year to year for an indefinite period. Consequently, it would be possible for a Commonwealth employee with 25 years service to accrue sick leave credits to the extent of 50 weeks on full pay and 50 weeks on half pay, effectively almost a year and a half on full pay. 
However, under most federal awards sick leave is allowed only in respect of personal illness or of incapacity through accident arising out of and in the course of the employment for which the employee is not entitled to workers' compensation. In the majority of cases the period of leave allowed is 64 hours per year (i.e. eight days), with provision for such leave to accumulate over stipulated periods. The Metal Industry Award provides for the accumulation of sick leave entitlements for a maximum period of 12 years (see Attachment 'D'), although many awards enable accumulation only for periods of up to 10 years, and in some cases only for six years. It is likely that because of the limitations on the taking of sick leave and the cumulative period for such entitlements that the Commission has not considered it appropriate that such entitlements should be affected by stand downs. In the Commonwealth area where accumulation is unlimited and is directly related to period of service there is no reason in principle why sick leave should not be treated in exactly the same way as other work related entitlements. 
Attachment 'A' 
EXAMPLES OF FEDERAL AWARDS CONTAINING STAND DOWN PROVISIONS 
AWU- BHP Aust. Ltd, Westernport Refinery, Agreement 1972. 
AWU- Oil Refinery Employees (Amoco Aust.) Agreement 1972. 
Commonwealth Hostels Award 1973. 
Confectioners Award 1977. 
Country Printing Award 1 977. 
Licensed Aircraft Engineers (Domestic Airlines) Award 1975. 
Licensed Aircraft Engineers (Qantas Airways) Award 1975. 
Liquor Industries (Wine and Spirit Stores) Award 1974. Liquor Industries (Breweries) Award 1974. Mannequins and Models Tasmania and NT Award 1 974. Manufacturing Grocers Consolidated Award 1 975. Metal Industry Award 1971. 
Miscellaneous Workers Plaster of Paris and Gypsum Products Industry (CSR- Wetherill Park) Award 1 975. 
Miscellanous Workers Photographic Industry Award 1975. 
Pilkington ACI Production and Warehousing Geelong No. 2 Award. 
Port of Sydney Ship Repairing and Ship Building Industry Industrial Agreement 1976. 
Queensland Alumina Ltd Agreement 1975. 
Saddlery Leather and Canvass Workers Award 1975. 
Salaried Officers (TAA) Award 1971. 
Salaried Staff (Ansett Airlines) Award 1 972. 
Scientific and Technical Officers (Chemical Industry) Award 1972. 
Storemen and Packers (Wool Selling Brokers and Repackers) Award 1973. 
Surface Prospecting Geological Surveying, Exploration and Mineral Drilling Award 1973. 
Television Industry Award 1975. 
Textile Industry Award 1 976. 
Theatre Managers Award 1974. 
Theatrical and Amusement Employees Award 1 947. 
Underground Mining Award 1972. 
Vehicle Industry Award 1 972. 
Attachment 'B' 
PROVISIONS OF METAL INDUSTRY AWARD RE ANNUAL LEAVE 
Clause 25 of the award provides that a period of 28 consecutive days' leave shall be allowed annually to an employee after 12 months continuous service (less the period of annual leave) as an employee on weekly hiring in any one or more of the occupations to which the award applies. 
In relation to calculation of continuous service the clause provides as follows: 
For the purpose of this clause service shall be deemed to be continuous notwithstanding: 
Any interruption or determination of the employment by the employer if such interruption or determination has been made merely with the intention of avoiding obligations hereunder in respect of leave of absence; 
any absence from work on account of personal sickness or accident or on account of leave lawfully granted by the employer; or 
any absence with reasonable cause proof whereof shall be upon the employee. 
Any absence from work by reason of any cause not being a cause specified in this sub-clause shall not be deemed to break the continuity of service for the purposes of this clause unless the employer during the absence or within 14 days of the termination of the absence notifies the employee in writing that such absence will be regarded as having broken the continuity of service. 
In calculating the period of 12 months continuous service the following absences shall be taken into account and counted as dme worked: 
Up to 160 ordinary working hours in a 12 monthly period in the case of sickness or accident; long service leave taken by an employee in accordance with the Metal Industry (Long Service Leave) Award 1 976 or the Queensland Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1961-1964,as the case may be. 
Other absences from work shall not be taken into account and shall not count as time worked in calculating the period of 1 2 months continuous service. ' 
Attachment 'C 
SUB-CLAUSE ( 1 ) OF CLAUSE 5 OF THE METAL TRADES (LONG SERVICE LEAVE) AWARD 
For the purposes of the award the service of an employee with an employer means the period during which the employee has served his employer under an unbroken contract of employment: provided that a contract of employment shall not be deemed to have been broken by reason only of any interruption or determination thereof, if the interruption or determination: 
has been made by the employer with the intention of avoiding any obligation imposed on him by this award or by State law dealing with long service leave; or 
has arisen directly or indirectly from a dispute concerning industrial matters, if the employee returns to duty with the same employer in accordance with the terms of settlement of the said dispute; or 
has been made by the employer by reason of slackness of trade, if the employee is re-employed by the same employer within six months of such interruption or determination; or 
has been made by the employer for any reason other than those referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) hereof, if the employee is re-employed by the same employer within two months of such interruption or determination. 
Provided further that the period during which the employment has been so interrupted or determined shall not, except when due to the reasons referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, be taken into account in calculating the period of service. ' 
Note: The following are further examples of federal awards containing identical provisions: 
The Federal Meat Industry (Long Service Leave) Award 1966. 
The Food Preservers (Long Service Leave) Award 1964. 
The Footwear- Manufacturing and ComponentIndustry (Long Service Leave) Award 1 977. 
The Glass Workers (Long Service Leave) Award 1 965. 
SICK LEAVE PROVISIONS OF THE METAL INDUSTRY AWARD 
Entitlement to sick leave 
An employee on weekly hiring who is absent from his work on account of personal illness, or on account of inquiry by accident arising out of and in the course of his employment, shall be entitled to leave of absence, without deduction of pay, subject to the following conditions and limitations. 
He shall not be entitled to paid leave of absence for any period in respect of which he is entitled to workers' compensation. 
He shall, as soon as reasonably practicable and within eight hours of the commencement of such absence inform the employer of his inability to attend for duty, and as far as practicable state the nature of the inquiry or illness and the estimated duration of the absence. 
If it is not reasonably practicable to inform the employer within eight hours of such absence the employee shall inform the employer within 24 hours of such absence. 
He shall prove to the satisfaction of his employer (or in the event of dispute, of a Board of Reference) that he was unable on account of such illness or injury to attend for duty on the day or days for which sick leave is claimed. 
He shall not be entitled during his first year of any period of service with an employer to leave in excess of forty hours of working time. Provided that during the first six  months  of the first year of any period of service with an employer, he shall be entitled to sick leave which shall accrue on a pro rata basis of 6% hours of working time for each month of service completed with that employer. 
Provided further that on application by the employee during the seventh month of employment and subject to the availability of an unclaimed balance of sick leave the employee shall be paid for any sick leave taken during the first six months and in respect of which payment was not made. 
He shall not be entitled during the second or subsequent years of any period of service with an employer to leave in excess of 64 hours of working time. 
Single day absences 
In the case of an employee who claims to be allowed paid sick leave in accordance with this clause for an absence of one day only such employee if in the year he has already been allowed paid sick leave on more than one occasion for one day only, shall not be entitled to payment for the day claimed unless he produces to the employer a certificate of a duly qualified medical practitioner that in his, the medical practitioner's opinion, the employee was unable to attend for duty on account of personal illness or on account of injury by accident. However, an employer may agree to accept from the employee a Statutory Declaration, stating that the employee was unable to attend for duty on account of personal illness or an account of injury by accident in lieu of a certificate of a duly qualified medical practitioner as prescribed by this sub-clause. 
Nothing in this sub-clause shall limit the employer's rights under paragraph (iii) of sub-clause (a) hereof. 
Cumulative sick leave 
Sick leave shall accumulate from year to year so that any balance of the period specified in paragraphs (iv) and (v) of sub-clause (a) hereof which has in any year not been allowed to an employee by an employer as paid sick leave may be claimed by the employee and subject to the conditions hereinbefore prescribed shall be allowed by that employer in a subsequent year without diminution of the sick leave prescribed in respect of that year. Provided that sick leave which accumulates pursuant to this sub-clause shall be available to the employee for a period of twelve years but for no longer from the end of the year in which it accrues. 
I conclude by raising the issue of the mandatory nature of the stand down clauses which will apply under this legislation. In such a situation the innocent parties to a dispute who are stood down will clearly suffer. It seems to me that that raises an issue to which the Minister and the Government must direct their attention. The Arbitrator may, in fact, prefer not to use the stand down provisions, compelling the loss of certain important elements of recreation leave, sick leave and long service leave. Therefore, the legislation may prove to be ineffective. That would seem to me to be something to which the Government ought to give continuing attention once the legislation is in operation. The Bill confirms longstanding practice. It clarifies areas of uncertainty. It is of great importance to the Public Service, and, I believe, to Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) How many Australians are currently teaching English in Asian countries. 
In which countries are they located. 
How many are teaching under some form of government sponsorship. 
What forms of sponsorship or assistance apply. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 1 3 April 1 978: 
1 ) What is the estimated number of students studying Indonesian history and culture, other than language, in Australia at: (a) secondary level; (b) universities; (c) colleges of advanced education; and (d) other tertiary institutions or facilities for continuing education. 
What are the comparable figures for each year from 1973 to 1977. 
-On behalf of  Senator Young  I present the following petition from 25 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully say that we are concerned about the discrimination which exists against the children of those parents who are in receipt of the Supporting Parents Benefit in comparison with children of Single Parents who receive the Widows Pension. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Parliament take immediate steps to ensure that this year's budget allow for Lone Parents to be given the right to receive a pension with the same benefits as are given with the Widows Pension, and we also request that the Parliament take immediate steps to instigate one ( 1 ) category of Lone Parent Pensions to eliminate the discrimination currently experienced. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate in relation to a statement in the Budget Speech last night. The statement is as follows: 
The Commonwealth will, as a major employer, act like any other employer. 
If wages rise Taster than we have budgeted Tor, we will respond by effecting offsetting economies through a further critical examination of Budget expenditures. This critical examination will include the number of staff employed. 
Can the Minister confirm that if Public Service or other Commonwealth Government staff levels are to be further affected by such decisions, any cuts will be achieved by the process of what is usually referred to as natural wastage, such as retirement and resignation, and not by retrenchments in the public sector? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and refer to an incident on 9 August involving a  Mr Michael  Brandon, a member of the Ananda Marga and, I understand, head of that organisation in Australia, New Zealand and part of the South Pacific. I refer in particular to a document that was distributed yesterday in the House of Representatives in which it is pointed out that  Mr Brandon's  passport has been confiscated. As the possession of a passport and the right to travel are widely recognised as fundamental personal rights, I ask the Minister: Can he give details of why the passport has been confiscated? Specifically, I ask the Minister to say whether the following statement relating to  Mr 
Brandon which appeared in the document provided for members of the House of Representatives yesterday is correct: 
He is being persecuted because of his religious and political beliefs. 
I begin by saying that it is good to see  Senator Sibraa  back with his aggressive instincts so finely honed. I will respond later to a few of the comments that he made. I would like to approach the subject from a slightly different angle. Firstly, I think it is worth reiterating some of the reasons behind this important legislation which because of circumstances that have arisen does fill a gap in the existing laws in Australia relating to diplomatic and consular missions. I think it is particularly worth emphasising that the Government is intent on preserving the opportunity for minority groups in Australia to voice their attitudes and views. This legislation does not in any way detract from those important fundamental rights within our community. I think it is also important to recognise that the legislation is not directed at one group within our community. It arises because of particular events, but it will have general applicability. It is not designed to apply to a particular group within the community. There is certainly no intention on the part of the Government to interfere in the exercise of the important rights of individuals within our community. 
The fundamental purpose of the Bill is, I think, worth recalling and I would like to do so by quoting from the second reading speech made in the House of Representatives by the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Sinclair)  at that time. He said: 
It is directed at false and misleading claims that an establishment or persons have diplomatic or consular status or represent persons, governments, countries or parts of countries in a diplomatic or consular capacity. 
I think that sentence sums up very clearly and thoroughly the purpose and the potential impact of this legislation. I have a particular interest in this subject because what has been referred to as Croatian Embassy is within my electorate. In fact I attended the opening of the 'embassy' late in 1977. I understand that that caused some consternation in some circles, but it seemed to me an important symbol and that it was intended to be a symbol to the Croatian people in Australia. The Croatian community has, I believe, a very distinct sense of its identity and its history. Whatever the problems and whatever the difficulties may be it is an identity that I believe ought to be treated with sympathy within our community. The so-called embassy was to be a symbol. It was to be open for a short time. It was to operate as a focal point for the Croatian people of Australia. I quote from a report in the  Canberra Times  of 12 June this year in which the person who has been in charge of that institution made the point that when it was opened it was opened only on the basis of a lease for one month. I must say that it had been my understanding that the Croatian Embassy, as it has been called, would be there for a short time, that it would be a focal point for the Croatians of Australia and that it would symbolise the views that they hold very stronglyviews which in our society those people of course have a right to express by peaceful protest and demonstration. 

 Senator Sibraa referred particularly to the statement that I had made relating to the name. I think it is worth considering that comment. I would like to make a number of points in relation to what  Senator Sibraa  said. Before doing so I would point out, referring to the same report in the  Canberra Times  of 12 June, that the person who has been in charge of that institution has said that the people involved would in fact consider changing the name of the establishment to one not covered by the legislation. The point is that it is not just a matter of the name; it is a matter of the function of the institution. That is covered by the legislation. It is not simply a matter of the building being renamed but then continuing to purport to be a diplomatic or consular mission. If only the name were to be changed and the institution were to conduct a function which clearly suggests a diplomatic or consular function then that would be contrary to the provisions of this legislation. 
When I made the statement to which  Senator Sibraa  referred I suggested that there was no reason why such a centre should not operate as a cultural centre and be called the 'Croatian Cultural Centre'. It would still be contrary to the provisions of this legislation if the institution although having the name 'Croatian Cultural Centre', sought to operate as a diplomatic or consular mission in some way by claiming to issue passports and visas or by operating in other ways like a diplomatic or consular mission. So I think one has to take into account that element and the fact that it is covered by clause  4  of the legislation. To me that sort of institution seems to be a valuable one both to the Croation community and to the wider community. I point out that in Canberra we already have two Croatian clubs- one in Deakin and one in O'Connor. Perhaps I should point out that my brotherinlawSenator Mulvihill may not be particularly pleased with this- plays soccer for the Croatian Club in Perth. 
I do not think the Croatian Club in Perth plays rugby league, senator. There are already two Croatian clubs in Canberra. This legislation will have no impact on such social and sporting clubs. It would have no impact on a cultural centre, for example. It does relate directly to something that is called a consular or diplomatic mission or to an institution that purports to provide services of a diplomatic or consular nature, and it is that which I think is important. 
Is that in rugby league or rugby union? 
I would like to conclude merely by saying that I think the legislation in its specific relevance to a particular issue that has arisen ought to be recognised as having much wider application because in such situations it fills a gap in existing laws in Australia. It is also important to recognise, as  Senator Sibraa  and others have, that the Croatian community is a very significant community in Australia. The Croatian people have made a great contribution to this country over recent decades. Problems have arisen, but I think that because of those problems it is a community which deserves particular sympathy and ought to be treated in that way. When there is a difficulty such as this I think it has to be stated emphatically that the effort to overcome it should not detract in any way from the individual rights of the members of any community and certainly should not detract from their right to run social, sporting and cultural clubs. However, the legislation does have effect when there are particular references and claims relating to diplomatic of consular functions. Foi that reason I think the legislation is important and deserves support. It must be emphasised that in this case it does relate to the particular nature of the institution involved. It most certainly does not reflect on a very significant community in Australia which has made a great contribution to this nation. 
I want to speak on the two reports which we are considering cognately, namely, the report from the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence of Australia and the South Pacific and the official report of the Australian Parliamentary delegation to the South Pacific. I had the privilege of being involved in both matters. I was a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and also a member of the Parliamentary delegation which visited the South Pacific in June and July 1977. 1 make the point that part of the purpose of participating in the Parliamentary delegation to the South Pacific in mid- 1 977 was related to my involvement with the Senate Standing Committee of Foreign Affairs and Defence in the inquiry which that Committee was then conducting into Australia and the South Pacific. 
Firstly, I shall make a few points about the report of the Parliamentary delegation and about what was learnt on the visits which we made to various territories and countries in the South Pacific. One of the things which emerged, I think, was a very significant identity of views among members of that bipartisan delegation. There was an essential degree of bipartisanship in the approach to the South Pacific. The delegation was led by the Attorney-General,  Senator Durack,  who is in the chamber at the moment. One of the important elements was reflected in the fact that an Australian delegation was visiting the South Pacific and thereby symbolising the growing recognition of the significance of the small territories and countries of the South Pacific to Australia. For a long time the nations of the South Pacific were taken for granted, partly because for a long period they were territories of metropolitan powers beyond the region. Australia tended to take them for granted and they were treated as areas simply for trade, not really as neighbours and in no sense as equals. 
In the years since the early 1960s when these countries began to become independent there has been a changing attitude on the part of Australia which has accelerated over the last few years. There is a growing recognition which I believe, as I will point out later, is reflected in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, that the South Pacific countries must be treated as neighbours on a basis of equality. There is a good deal of evidence now of that happening. Some of the recommendations made in the report of the Senate Standing Committee will contribute to that process being consolidated. 
As I have mentioned, I shall refer to the parliamentary delegation which visited the South Pacific. The report begins by dealing with some regional matters. It is worth emphasising that the first of the regional institutions mentioned in the report is the South Pacific Commission. It was established shortly after the Second World War and was, to a very significant degree, supported and stimulated by the efforts of the then Australian Foreign Minister,  Dr Evatt.  I believe he had a very clear recognition of the future development of the South Pacific countries as independent national entities. He sought to further that process immediately after the war. 
The South Pacific Commission, as the delegation discovered, faces some increasing problems because as the constitutional process has continued in the South Pacific the role of the Commission has tended to be questioned in some respects by the emerging countries of the region. For example, in more recent years- that is since 1970- the South Pacific Forum has tended to take over as the more significant representative organisation for the various independent and self-governing countries of the South Pacific. But over the last 30 years the Commission has played an important role- it continues to do so- in particular with respect to social and economic development in the region. I mention one aspect which I think is of particular importance because Australia can make a contribution to it and because many countries of the area are already participating, and that is in the development of fisheries. The South Pacific region is already a very important source offish protein. 
The Commission is currently conducting a major investigation into the potential for the development of skipjack tuna fisheries which could be worth many hundreds of millions of dollars annually to the countries of the South Pacific. It has the potential for very significant development but it carries with it many equally significant problems. One problem is that as small South Pacific countries declare- as they have indicated they will do- their 200-mile economic zones, they will have considerable difficulties with surveillance and the policing of those zones in order to protect the economic resources of those zones which will fall within their jurisdiction. The most important immediate resource is protein and, in particular, skipjack tuna. 
The Australian Government has contributed substantially, I think at the rate of about $250,000 a year, to that project, which is being led by an Australian expert in fisheries. It is a project which holds out great hopes for the smaller countries of the South Pacific because it concerns a resource they have great expertise in exploiting. They have gained experience over many generations. But it seems that there are great resources still to be exploited. This survey could be of special significance to them because of that fact. I think the development illustrates to a degree the changing role of the South Pacific Commission but also its continuing important role in areas such as social and economic development. 
The delegation's report also referred to the South Pacific Bureau for Economic Co-operation which is the secretariat of the South Pacific Forum. As I have already mentioned, the South Pacific Forum has tended to take over as the major political and economic forum in the South Pacific region. The members of the Forum are the independent and self-governing countries of the region. The South Pacific Bureau for Economic Co-operation is now conducting important investigations into various aspects of future economic development in the South Pacific and also other areas of potential co-operation such as the South Pacific shipping line, civil aviation, telecommunications and a range of other areas. 
The report also deals with the University of the South Pacific which is another major regional institution. Australia has provided some support to it. I hope that we will provide increasing support because the University of the South Pacific is of great importance in the development of the region. It is based in Fiji but has campuses in Samoa and, I think, in Tonga. It trains students from all over the South Pacific region. My knowledge of this matter is not as up-to-date as I would like it to be but when the delegation was there the University was very anxious to develop a marine resources centre. It was anxious that Australia should support that centre. This matter is referred to in the report. To me it seemed to be a proposal of considerable merit given the nature of the South Pacific region and the potential for the development of marine resources. 
I shall refer briefly to a few of the countries which we visited. I think that one country of special interest to Australia at the moment, because of developments there, is the New Hebrides. The delegation found a problem of considerable proportions developing in the New 
I  Hebrides, one fraught with great complexity because of the interplay of race, language and re- ; ligion. We had talks with a number of the politia cai leaders and members of various political : organisations including the Tan Union and, in particular, the Vanuaaku Party. Again, my  i  knowledge about the situation in the New Hebrides is not so current as I would like it to be, but it is a situation that is fraught with difficul ties. Potentially, it is one of considerable significance to Australia. It is already of significance because  t  the New Hebrides is a close neighbour and a country in which Australia has considerable interests. It is of even greater potential significance because of what seems to be the potential for instability there if some of the forces that are currently at work have the effect that I fear they may have. I suppose we must hope that the  i  situation will be resolved peacefully and that those in the New Hebrides will act in the best interests of the people, the indigenous people in particular. 
We visited the Solomon Islands briefly, but it  is worth noting in passing that the Solomon Islands has since become an independent nation within the South Pacific region. Also worth mentioning is the fact that in economic terms that country is in perhaps a better position than are most other countries in the South Pacific. It has a particularly favourable economic balance in terms of resources and trading position and is probably looking forward to the future with considerable optimism. It has quite significant resources in some areas but, in common with so many other new nations, also has considerable problems. It is a nation with which Australia has worked closely. I am sure that we will continue to do so. 
The delegation also spent some time in Nauru. Because Australia's relations with that country have been so close for so long, most members would be familiar with it. It was one of the first in the South Pacific to achieve its independence, which it did in 1 968. On 30 January of this year it celebrated the tenth anniversary of its independence. I mention it not only to emphasise the significance of the relationship between that country and Australia, but also because I think that it is a unique international relationshippartly because of its closeness and partly because of the remarkable disparity between the two countries. Nauru is a tiny phosphate island in the  middle of the vast Pacific Ocean and has a small population. Australia, on the other hand, is a continent with a great diversity of resources, with 14 million people, and one that is a long way away across the Pacific Ocean. Despite that the two nations, for a number of reasons, have developed a very close and unique relationship, one to which Australia should pay close attention. That is important both to Australia and to the Nauruans. 
Two other small but, in the South Pacific context, important countries that we visited have recently been going through the process of constitutional change and facing all the difficulties that go with that. I refer to the Gilbert Islands and what were once the Ellice Islands but are now known as Tuvalu. We visited both briefly and for the delegation- certainly for myself- what came out of that visit was the need of those countries, and particularly Tuvalu, which consists primarily of very small coral atolls, for assistance and the scope for Australia to provide it to them in their development. They tend to emphasise the special obligation of Australia in the South Pacific, first because of its proximity to them and, secondly, because most of these countries use Australian money, depend upon trade with Australia and get many of their basic resources from this country. We have a special obligation to them, and they have special needs, which we can meet. I hope we will continue to do that. When the delegation visited Western Samoa one of the points put to us was that Australia should have closer and more immediate diplomatic relationships with that country. It is worth while noting that an Australian diplomatic representative has since been appointed to Western Samoa. I am sure that, at a time when Australia's development assistance program to Western Samoa is expanding very rapidly, the presence of an Australian diplomatic mission in Apia will contribute significantly to the development of that relationship. 
We visited Tonga all too briefly. I must concede that it has a special place in my own thinking. I have visited it several times. Australia still does not have a mission in Tonga, but does have special ties with it. For example, a number of Tonga's leaders have spent many years in Australia. And they play very good rugby union. Our relationships with Tonga are close. As I recall, Australia is represented in that country through our mission in Fiji, and members of the mission make regular visits to ensure that that relationship is maintained. I would only say in passing that considerable emphasis should be placed upon that relationship, even though it does not include resident diplomatic representation. It is important in terms of our political and economic relationships, and with respect to trade and developmental assistance, that 
Australia maintain the closest possible ties with Tonga. 
Fiji is a country of considerable significance in the South Pacific and the delegation spent some time there. I do not think it is necessary for me to emphasise the importance to Australia of either Fiji or New Zealand. They tend to be better known to Australians than do many of the other countries of the South Pacific to which I have referred. The significance of our relationships with the two countries are more generally recognised and understood. I therefore will not say very much about them, except to emphasise that, because those relationships have been of long standing, and because they are so close- and assumed to be by both sides- there does tend to be on occasion a tendency to take them for granted. That is the greatest risk in our relationships with them, but particularly with respect to New Zealand. I hope that, increasingly, we pay closer public attention to our relationship with New Zealand. 
I would only add that Fiji must be recognised as perhaps the most influential nation in the Polynesian and Melanesian regions of the South Pacific. In saying that I would set aside Papua New Guinea which, as a Melanesian nation, has its own special relationship with Australia. Apart from that country, Fiji must be recognised as the most influential nation in the PolynesianMelanesian region- one of considerable economic importance and one to which Australia must continue to give the closest attention; a nation with which, in the interests of the whole South Pacific region, we must work cooperatively. 
The report of the Senate Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee has been and will be dealt with by others and I shall refer to it only briefly. I know that the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Sim,  will want to say a good deal more about it. It seems to me that the most significant element in the report is the suggested change in emphasis in Australia's relations with the South Pacific. Our traditional relationship with all of the countries of the South Pacific, and in this respect Fiji is of particular significance, has been in economic and commercial terms. Because of the development of both of those aspects of our relationships, and because of the rapid growth of development assistance in the region, the existing relationship is likely to continue to a significant extent. The report has sought to suggest that those traditional elements ought at least to be modified by the continuing extension of diplomatic links, cultural, social and sporting ties and a closer identity by those means between Australia and the various countries of the South Pacific. The intention is that the emphasis ought to some extent at least be modified. Hopefully, we can then develop a more rounded relationship with each of the countries of the South Pacific. 
In that context I think it is also worth making the point that each of those countries, small though they may be, must be treated as an independent entity with its own interests, its own problems and its own obligations and with which Australia must develop a unique bilateral relationship. While we can talk about the South Pacific quite reasonably as a region and we can perhaps refer to sub-regions of Micronesians, Melanesians and Polynesians, diplomatic relations and Australia's relations with the region as a whole have to be based on strong bilateral relationships with each country, self-governing territory and those dependent territories that remain in the region. The important element in the Committee's report is an attempt to suggest new areas where Australian policy might initiate new measures and new aspects of our relationships with these countries, thereby modifying to some extent the dominance of economic and commercial elements in our relationships. 
Since this report was tabled I think that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has indicated that in future Ministers will be required within six months of the tabling of a parliamentary committee report to respond to each of the recommendations in that report. If I am correct in my recollection that the tabling of this report occurred after that directive being issued, I hope that this report will be given some special treatment. Perhaps the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  might give a detailed statement on the various recommendations. I believe they have particular significance for the continuing development of a healthy and effective relationship for Australia with the various countries in the South Pacific. 

 Senator MclNTOSH (Western Australia) (8.33)- I concur with quite a lot of what  Senator Knight  said but I should like to emphasise that if any Senate standing committee has a term of reference that involves the lifestyles of people, the geographical background of a region, and a complete understanding of the relationship between Australia and some other country, the report it brings down should be a fairly authoritative judgment on that term of reference. There are two important things we should bear in mind. 
The most important factor of all is that a committee can bring down a report only on the evidence submitted to it. It cannot bring down a report on anything other than the evidence which comes before it. This may be gathered from the documents submitted to it or by crossexamination of witnesses. We narrow the field when we look at a broad term of reference because the only people who will bring evidence before a committee are a particular section of articulate people, those who are willing to submit a document in writing or come before the committee and give oral evidence. I feel that this is a rather narrow basis upon which to make a judgment. It is time that the Senate had a good look at this situation and realised that a committee requires a lot more exposure to the people, the country or the situation on which it is making judgment. 

 Senator Knight reported his experience around the Pacific Islands. It was nice to hear his report, but it was not a report from the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence; it was a report from a separate delegation. The Committee was certainly advantaged by the experience of  Senator Knight  and  Senator Brown  who were members of that delegation. The point I would emphasise is this: We should give consideration to this aspect. After all, we can look ridiculous and be held up to ridicule by people. I believe that on one occasion a Committee member, talking about the Committee's report was held up as a laughing stock when he was asked whether the Committee had visited the Pacific Islands. He could only say no. I feel that the report that this Committee brought down was quite good, but it could have been much better had we been exposed to the situation that exists in the Pacific Islands. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security a question. It follows a question which was asked by  Senator Walters  and seeks some clarification, insofar as that is possible. Can the Minister say whether a clear distinction might be drawn between earnings obtained by a child's own efforts and earnings from sources which do not require direct effort on the child 's part? Is it a fact that such a distinction would ensure an equitable result in the application of the Budget announcement relating to family allowances? 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate concerning section 23 of the Ombudsman Act. I refer to the second reading speech of the then Attorney-General on 4 June 1976, in which it was stated: 
A deputy ombudsman is to be designated to act in relation to . . . the Australian Capital Territory . . . 
In view of the fact that a deputy ombudsman for the ACT has not been appointed, can the Minister say whether consideration is being given to the appointment of a deputy ombudsman for the Capital Territory and, if so, when such an appointment might be announced? 
I present the following petition from 14 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators here assembled. We the undersigned humbly pray: 
That the Government ensures Item 6469 is not removed from the standard Medical Benefits Table. 
That this item under which an estimated 49,145 contributors claimed in the 1976-77 financial year, covers a legal and medically approved procedure. 
That the removal of this item from the schedule would destroy the concept of universal health insurance, and would have the most serious repercussions for women and their health. 
Petition received and read. 
I address a question to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister, who is responsible for Public Service matters, and as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs as it refers to recent meetings in Geneva of the International Labour Organisation. Can the Minister say what progress has been made with consideration by the International Labour Organisation of a case put to it by Australian Public Service organisations concerning the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act? In particular, can the Minister say what action the Government has taken on this matter? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1978: 
1 ) In what countries in which Australia has overseas posts is Australia not permitted to purchase property for office or residential accommodation. 
) What are the reasons in each case. 
Which of these countries is represented in Australia, and where is that representation located in each case. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1 978: 
1 ) In what countries in which Australia has overseas posts is it permissable for Australia to purchase property for office or residential accommodation. 
In which of these countries has Australia not yet purchased such property for (a) residential purposes and (b) office accommodation. 
3 ) What are the reasons in each case. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 6 August 1978: 
What action has been taken, or is proposed, concerning the recommendations in the Second Report of the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped that: 
some seeding funds be made available to assist in the development of at least one Independent Living Centre for the handicapped in each State and Territory; and 
that the Australian Council for Rehabilitation of the Disabled National Committee on Aids and Appliances give particular attention to means of achieving a high degree of standardisation and uniformity in cataloguing and retrieval of information so that the best possible level of service is available throughout Australia. 
I present the following petition from 320 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth. 
That the provision of payments for abortion through items ofthe Medical Benefits Schedule is an unacceptable endorsement of abortion which has now reached the levels of a national tragedy with at least 60,000 unborn babies being killed in 1977. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will so amend the Medical Benefits Schedule as to preclude the payment of any benefit for abortion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-The Minister for Science is in such good form that I feel compelled to put a question to him. I ask the Minister: In view of the problem of European carp in Lake Burley Griffin, can he say what action has been taken to cope with this problem? Can the Minister indicate the extent of the problem in the waterways of the Australian Capital Territory? Particularly, can he say whether any research has been carried out in recently-established areas such as Lake Ginninderra and Googong Dam? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
What action has been taken, or is proposed, concerning the recommendations in the Second Report of the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped that: 
the Government adopt the theme of access to community life and the prevention of disability, with public education as an integral part of both themes; and 
as a part of the program for prevention, the Government sponsor a national seminar on safety in the home. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
What action has been taken, or is proposed, concerning the recommendations in the second report of the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped that: 
'sales tax exemption be abolished and replaced by a program which will offer eligible persons a choice of a weekly transport allowance of $12, or a 4: 1 subsidy for purchase of a motor vehicle, up to a maximum of $4,000, both to be subject to an income test'; 
'eligibility for such transport assistance be granted to handicapped people in gainful employment or undertaking vocational training who, by virtue of the severity of their handicap, are unable to use public transport without special assistance'; and 
'if the Government is not disposed to accept at the outset the full program outlined above, then transport allowance be accepted as a first priority and the motor vehicle subsidy be introduced at a later stage '. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
What action has been taken, or is proposed concerning the recommendations in the second report of the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped that: 
the Conference of Health Ministers and the Standing Council of Social Welfare Ministers be asked to assist in encouraging and monitoring progress towards the establishment of appropriate advisory mechanisms on policies and services for the handicapped in each State; 
as encouragement for adequate involvement of nongovernment agencies in consultations sponsored by the various State advisory bodies on the handicapped, the Commonwealth make available small grants, perhaps through the Australian Council for Rehabilitation of Disabled, towards the cost incurred by voluntary organisations in such consultation. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
What action has been taken, or is proposed, concerning the recommendations in the second report of the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped that: 
an allocation of $100,000 be made to it for the 1978-79 financial year, for commissioning research projects in areas of priority concern for effective discharge of Council 's advisory role; and 
the Australian Science and Technology Council be encouraged to institute co-ordinating arrangements which will ensure adequate attention to the needs for quality research in matters affecting handicapped people, drawing on the advice available through the Council and bodies such as the Australian Council for Rehabilitation of Disabled and the Australian Association for the Mentally Retarded. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
What action has been taken, or is proposed, in view of the statement in the second report of the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped that there is considerable scope for improving the management of sheltered employment facilities in Australia and that the general productivity and the level of wages paid to handicapped employees leave much to be desired. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
What action has been taken, or is proposed, concerning the recommendations in the second report of the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped that: 
the education of handicapped children should be the responsibility of education authorities and accordingly should be funded from that source rather than through the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act; 
the Schools Commission take urgent action to ascertain the number of children in State institutions where no adequate educational facilities are available; and 
the Commission allocate funds in 1978 for educational programs for such children- this group including children and adolescents with severe and profound handicaps (usually including mental retardation) who are resident in hospital units, training centres and other State institutions, in the age range from birth to 18 years, and including people who have already acquired basic academic skills prior to admission to an institution. 
I draw the attention of the Minister for Social Security to that part of the Budget Speech which states: 
Family allowances, orphans pensions, handicapped child's allowance and additional pensions or benefits for a child will generally no longer be payable in respect of children who are classed as living abroad on a permanent basis. 
Can the Minister say whether this will apply in any way to the children of Australian Government employees serving on long term overseas postings of two, three or more years and to the children of other Australians on long term postings overseas, such as business people, as these postings sometimes, I understand, require residence visas for the countries of posting? Can the Minister indicate the criteria that will be applied in determining those to be affected by this Budget decision? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Social Security, relates to the matter to which she has just been referring. I ask: How many people will be affected by this decision, that is, how many income tests will have to be carried out? Can she give an estimate as to how many additional government employees will be required to carry out this work? Will not this decision be administratively complex and costly to implement, and will not its most severe economic effects be felt by the less affluent members of the community? Is it not, therefore, an inequitable decision? 
I move: 
That, in the opinion of the Senate, the appropriate Minister should take urgent action to table in the Parliament a proposal for the construction of guard boxes for the shelter of Commonwealth Police patrolling Parliament House, so that Parliament may approve the proposal in accordance with section 5  o( the Parliament Act  1974. 
This matter is rather more mundane than the heady and intoxicating issue with which the Senate has just dealt but it is nonetheless important to those affected. It relates to the report from the Joint Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House which you,  Mr President,  tabled today. On 15 August I gave notice of this motion concerning the construction of guard boxes for Commonwealth police officers patrolling Parliament House. I know that a good deal has been done about that matter since then, as is indicated in your report. However, it was pointed out in your report that such proposals have been raised on several occasions over a number of years. The fact that they had been considered over a number of years first came to my attention during the consideration by Estimates Committee A, on 2 May this year, of matters relevant to the Department of Administrative Services. I shall quote from the transcript of that hearing. I asked on officer of the Department and the then Minister for Administrative Services: 
 I understand there was some proposal to provide outside the Parliament- I am not quite sure of the correct term- guard boxes, particularly during the colder weather. They were portable guard boxes, as I recall. Is my recollection correct? If there was some proposal, is that being pursued? 
I was told by an officer: 
There has been a proposal. I think it is under consideration. 
Another officer said: 
I think that proposal has been around for some time and is primarily a matter initially for the  Speaker  and the  President. 
The then Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Withers,  said: 
It has been around for about five years. No decision has ever been made and the policemen keep freezing to death. 
Following a further question,  Senator Withers  suggested that the matter ought to be put to officers of the Parliament when they came before the Committee. Therefore, on 4 May I took the matter up again when you,  Mr President,  were before Estimates Committee A. In answers to questions you indicated your considerable concern about the matter and said that you would take action. Following that, further action was taken on the matter. 
In discussing this issue I want to raise the general question of the decision making process in cases relating to Parliament House. Obviously this has some immediate and direct interest for me as it occurs in my electorate but I think it has significance for all honourable senators and for all Australians because it affects the national Parliament.  Mr President,  as you are well aware, it involves the Parliament Act 1974. The relevant Minister under the current Administrative Arrangements Order is the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  although there is, as I will indicate later, a direct role for the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  because of his responsibility for the National Capital Development Commission. It in turn has responsibility with respect to the national capital and the Parliament. There is also a role in such matters for the Parliament under section 5 of the Parliament Act and for at least one joint committee, as was indicated in your report today. The Joint Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House obviously has a role in such cases. 
Another committee, the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, which I chair, has a role too and only this week a report from the Committee was tabled by  Senator Teague  in my absence. It concerned works to be undertaken within the parliamentary zone, as it is referred to in the Parliament Act. The Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory had to be involved in that matter because of road works and variations to the plan of Canberra for which the Committee has a responsibility. So there is a range of authorities, Ministers and committees of the Parliament as well as the Parliament itself involved when such decisions have to be made. Obviously it becomes a very complex decision making process, although a very important one because it affects the environs of the national Parliament. Nevertheless, it is extraordinarily complex. That is partly reflected in the fact that the guard boxes that were to be constructed some five or six years ago are only now to be erectedtwo of them at the back of Parliament House. 
I understand that in recent months- this is quite apart from what may have gone on before my direct interest was aroused by this matter during the hearings of Estimates Committee A in May of this year- the Presiding Officers have been involved in the matter and that the Joint House Department went to the National Capital Development Commission on the matter. It was then felt that the matter should go to the relevant Minister, who, as I have mentioned, under the Administrative Arrangements Order is the Prime Minister. I understand that the Presiding Officers then took the decision that they would have to go to the Joint Standing Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House. The report which you tabled today,  Mr President,  resulted from that. It is worth noting that that report points out as follows: 
Under clause 3 of its resolution of appointment, the Joint Standing Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House is authorised to consider and report on matters coming within the terms of section 5 of the Parliament Act 1974 as may be referred to it by the Minister responsible for administering the National Capital Development Commission Act 19S7, or by resolution of either House of Parliament. 
One of the aspects that interests me about this matter is that neither of those things happened. There was no reference from the Minister and there was no reference from either House of the Parliament. The Presiding Officers themselves decided that the matter was so significant that despite the terms of reference of the Joint Committee, if I can put it that way, it should be referred to that Committee. 
As I understand it, there is still a requirement, the Joint Committee having made what I think is a commendable decision, for the relevant Minister to prepare an instrument to be presented to the Houses of Parliament and for the Houses of this Parliament then to approve it. So two quite fundamental and very important steps still have to be taken following the very long and at times rather complicated process which has taken place. I assume that it is now a matter for the Prime Minister, under the terms of section 5 of the Parliament Act and as suggested in the motion which I have moved, to table in the Parliament a proposal for the construction of the guard boxes. After that is done it is then a matter for this Parliament to approve that proposal. Given the fact that your Committee has approved the proposal,  Mr President,  I should hope that the gaining of the approval of the Parliament would be a formality. 
There are a couple of further comments I would like to make, having outlined the process involved. In doing so I pay tribute to the Presiding Officers- particularly to you,  Mr Presidentfor  the way in which and the speed with which the matter has been dealt with, given the time that elapsed beforehand, and the compassion that has been shown. If I may say so, it seems to me that throughout this process- I am speaking of past years and not just recent months- a good deal of attention has been given either to the security of Parliament House or the aesthetics of constructing guard boxes and perhaps too little attention has been given to the comfort of the individuals who may be providing security for those of us who work in this place and who may be just a little less concerned about the aesthetics and a little more concerned about the temperature in Canberra in June and July. Although another winter is behind us, I hope that before next winter these guard boxes will be constructed. As I have indicated in the motion which I have moved, I hope that ministerial action will be prompt. I assume that it will be, particularly now that the way has been cleared by the Presiding Officers and by the Committee of which you are joint  Chairman  with  Mr Speaker. 
Nevertheless, I think this is an instructive exercise for two reasons: Firstly, because I think it indicates that on occasions the wellbeing of individuals serving an institution may not be considered as carefully in a long and complex process as it might be and, secondly, because it illustrates that the decision-making process in relation to the construction of various works or the erection of buildings or guard boxes for Parliament House and its environs can be an extraordinarily complex and lengthy one. I just wonder whether in the future, but not too distant in the future, we will examine the whole process, together with the application of the Parliament Act. I know that many of the people with whom I was involved at different times were rather uncertain as to how particular aspects of the decision-making process applied at particular times. I hope that we can look at that matter and at the application of the Parliament Act for the purpose of seeing whether its application might be simplified and modified in the interests of all involved. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs. Following the Budget, can the Minister indicate what services are to be provided by the National Library of Australia for handicapped people? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
What action will be taken to overcome the situation indicated in the statement of the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped (second report) that 'sales tax exemption has proved restrictive and inequitable because it benefits a very restricted group of handicapped people, and then only members of that group who can afford to buy a new motor vehicle'. 
I address a question to the Minister for Education. I refer to the series of rolling strikes initiated today by the Australian Capital Territory Teachers Federation. 
Is the Minister in a position to give us an indication of the response by teachers to the first day of the rolling strike today? 
I present the following petition from 68 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned Senior Secondary Students of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth that the publishing of the Australian Scholastic Aptitude Test scores on our Year 12 Certificate by the A.C.T. Schools Authority, is unjust and unnecessary, as it could lead, and has lead, to the misuse of the score, deliberate or otherwise by individual and/or organisations from whom the test results were not designed to aid, especially in the adjudication of the academic abilities of a student as the A.S.A.T. was only designed as a moderating and not an academic test. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament should: Pass an order to remove the A.S.A.T. score from our Year 12 Certificates, thereby removing any threat or possibility of the score being misused by an individual and /or organisation for whom the resulting score was not intended. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I address a question to the Minister for Social Security. It relates to the undertaking given during the 1977 general election campaign by the Prime Minister that the Government would provide additional funds to ensure that the cost to parents of educating handicapped children should be no greater than the cost to parents whose children are educated in the usual government school system. Can the Minister indicate what progress has been made towards implementing that undertaking? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral a question concerning statements by the Australian Capital Territory Chief Magistrate reported in yesterday's  Canberra Times.  Have there been problems of administration between the Minister's Department and the courts in the Australian Capital Territory? Have problems also resulted from staff ceilings? If so, what action will be taken on this and the related accommodation situation reportedly referred to by the Chief Magistrate? Is it correct to suggest that there has been a decline in the quality of justice in the Australian Capital Territory? 
I present the following petition from 3 1 7 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth:- 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the A.C.T. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to:- 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the A.C.T. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
As  Senator Button  has just suggested and as the Minister for Education and Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Carrick)  pointed out in his remarks, all the facts relating to this case are not entirely clear at present.  Senator Carrick  suggested that in fact we should reserve final judgment on the matter; but, given the information that was reported, for example, today in the Melbourne  Age,  I think it is important that the Senate indicate its views on the basis of what is now known and understood to be the situation. 
The Minister, in his statement, made the point that the sorts of discriminatory practices to which this debate is directed are unlikely to be withdrawn by the countries involved- in this case, particularly Syria- but one of the important points which the Minister made and which has to be emphasised is that these practices vary from country to country and even amongst the Arab countries of the Middle East there are wide variations of the application of what can generally be described as discriminatory practices. There are, of course, clear differences between rules and regulations which apply, on the one hand, to certain passport holders and, on the other hand, to people who have passports which contain visas, either current or in some cases expired. Then, of course, there is the application of these provisions to people of a certain faith. It is that latter fact which we are discussing in particular with respect to Qantas Airways Ltd. 

 Senator Wheeldon made the point that it is no good our saying how bad it all is and that really we have to do something about it. Often it is the case that we cannot do much about things. We can be critical of what is happening in many countries, for example in Uganda, Kampuchea or the Soviet Union; but often we cannot do a great deal about those things. But surely in this case we do have a capacity to do something, to exert some influence. It seems to me, therefore, to be particularly important, appropriate and essential, now that this matter has come to lightand it seems that the situation has existed for some considerable time- that this Senate express a view and perhaps thereby have some influence on altering the situation. 
It is important to note, as other speakers have done, that the Arab countries do consider themselves to be in a state of conflict with Israel, no matter how latent that conflict may be. As  Senator Wheeldon  pointed out and as other honourable senators have mentioned, at the moment Syria is actively involved in Lebanon. The Arab League countries, for the most part, consider themselves still to be in a state of conflict with Israel, despite the very significant peace moves that have been made by Egypt and Israel and despite the initiative of their national leaders, which was referred to by  Senator Chipp. 

 Senator Button has just referred to the fact that we ought not to interfere in the internal affairs of other countries, and indeed we must recognise and accept the national sovereignty of other nations. Of course to that extent the Syrian Government has a right to make rules and regulations which apply within its borders. Whilst we may not agree with those rules and regulations, to a degree at least we must be prepared to accept the right of other countries to exercise their national sovereignty. There will be occasions when, as has occurred in the case of South Africa, we will find we cannot accept what has happened and we will take action to try to do something about that. But in the main we have to accept that countries, including Syria, have the right to determine what happens within their borders. 
I have already mentioned that other countries, including Syria, discriminate in various ways particularly against people who have Israeli passports. But some countries go further than others. Jordan, for example, has rules and regulations similar to Syria. However, I understand that Iraq and Saudi Arabia, for example, do not discriminate against people of Jewish faith unless their faith is specifically  mentioned in the  passport of the person concerned. Again, as I understand the situation, it is relatively rare for a passport to carry this information. In fact, one 's faith or religion is rarely mentioned in a national passport. Therefore this qualification has to be recognised even in relation to nations like Iraq and Saudi Arabia which take a very strong line against Israel. My information indicates that the religious intolerance expressed by these countries does not exist in Egypt, Bahrain or Kuwait. In fact, the ban relates to people with Israeli passports or people with Israeli visas, current or expired, in their passports. 
I think that distinction is important, because I understand that Israel refuses to permit into Israel people who hold passports from countries of the Arab League and that again reflects a state of conflict between those Arab countries and Israel, It emphasises the distinction between discriminating on the basis of nationality or citizenship- that is the passport- and discrimination clearly based on the faith or religion of the person concerned. It is, of course, this that is of particular concern with respect to Syria and Qantas flying through Damascus. 
I do not believe the issue necessarily is one of Syria's right or anyone else's right to determine what happens within their borders and within certain limits. Despite the fact that a nation might be an adherent of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or a signatory of the United Nations Covenant on Civil and Political Rights as Syria is, one can accept that countries should decide what happens within their borders. However, as  Senator Baume  has mentioned, the one fundamental human right that is mentioned in our Constitution- we do not have a Bill of Rights- is the right to religious freedom and the unacceptability of discrimination on grounds of religion or faith. It is important that we ought to note that that is mentioned in our Constitution. I think this is a fundamental element in the Australian ethos. Yet Qantas, which is an Australian flag carrier, is flying via 
Dasmascus to London and thereby, I believe, contravening what is seen in our Constitution and in our society through our adherence to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, for example, as a fundamental right. 
I do not accept  Senator Chipp  's statement that we will be seen as taking sides in the Arab and Israeli conflict. I do not believe that is the case. But I do not believe the situation is any the less important for that. I do not believe it is a matter of taking sides one way or the other. It is a matter of Qantas, a statutory authority which it is important to note was established by this Parliament, contravening a fundamental right of Australian citizens and for that matter any other citizens who happen to be Jewish, because they want to fly via Damascus. 
I understand from my reading of the reports that this ban applies not only to people wanting to leave the aircraft in Damascus but also people who are in transit. We have in Damascus an embassy which I understand was established in February 1977. The embassy is staffed by a number of Australian diplomats. The embassy has been operating now for almost two years. It would seem to me that this is the sort of issue that really ought to be taken up urgently by Qantas, by the diplomats in Damascus and by the Australian Government. 
As  Senator Chipp  said- and I must agree with him- this is a matter of significance to the Australian people.  Senator Baume  pointed out that Qantas is wholly owned by the Commonwealth. In effect it is an airline in which the Australian people have a direct interest and therefore its actions are also of interest and significance to all Australians. I would suggest that since our diplomatic presence in Damascus has been established we ought to perhaps use this as one channel through which this matter can be examined with the Syrian authorities. 
If it is found that there is no way to overcome this discrimination against Jewish people whether of Australian nationality or any other nationality it seems to me that Qantas ought to start examining alternative routes to avoid the discriminatory practice which has to a degree been forced upon it but which it has accepted by flying via Damascus. The issue is that the Australian Government, through one of its instrumentalities, is in fact condoning discrimination against 70,000 or 80,000 Australians as well as other people of Jewish faith because these people presumably cannot fly with Qantas to London via Damascus. 
It is important that we recognise that Qantas internationally is a very significant symbol of this country. In my experience it is recognised universally as Australia's airline and as representing this country. I believe it is a symbol that has served this country remarkably well over more than the half century it has operated. However, because of its role internationally and because it is recognised as a symbol of this country Qantas has to be extraordinarily careful that it does not take action which can reflect badly upon this country. It seems to me that this sort of thing is occurring or will occur because of the decision to fly via Damascus. As I have said, not just Australians will be affected. If a person anywhere in the world tries to book on Qantas and indicates that he or she wants to fly via Damascus the question will have to be asked and that can only reflect poorly on this country whose Constitution mentions the right to religious freedom. Yet, our national flag carrier, our international airline, has to ask people about their religious faith if they want to fly with it via Damascus. 
This is a matter for the Parliament. Qantas is a statutory authority established under an Act of this Parliament and obviously the Government should look at this matter and the uncertainties that have arisen ought to be cleared up as quickly as possible. I believe it is significant that a number of senators from all parties have expressed concern in the Senate this afternoon about the report that appeared in the Melbourne  Age  and have asked that the Government ensure that action be taken as quickly as possible to clarify the facts in relation to this situation and, if the facts are as reported, to do something about it. The Government should ensure that Qantas is not involved in what can only be considered to be unreasonable discrimination on religious grounds against a large number of Australians and people of other nationalities. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 12 September, 1978: 
What action has been taken, or is proposed, concerning the recommendations in the Second Report of the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped that: 
'the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act 1974 be amended to authorise the funding of suitable consultancy and advisory services to eligible organisations'; and 
'the Tertiary Education Commission be asked to allocate funds to Colleges of Advanced Education and Institutes of Technology to offer suitable courses of theoretical and practical education for managers, supervisors and residential staff of facilities of handicapped people'. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
Did the Universities Commission Working Party on Rehabilitation Medicine and Geriatrics recommend: 
'That the teaching of rehabilitation medicine should be encouraged by the appointment of Co-ordinators of Rehabilitation Studies, responsible for coordinating the teaching of rehabilitation medicine in Australian universities '; and 
'That the Universities Commission should earmark funds for the support of these posts in the 1977-79 triennium'. 
What action has been taken, or is proposed, concerning the Working Party's recommendations, in view of the stated understanding of the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped (Second Report) that, although these proposals were accepted by the Government, lack of funds restricted the implementation of the recommendations, and the failure of the Tertiary Education Commission to make provision for the implementation of the proposals. 
I think the statement that has just been made by  Senator McAuliffe  is characteristic of the way in which this debate has been conducted for the most part- in a constructive and non-partisan fashion. One thing it has done is give rise to many different approaches to the issue and to different points of view. For example, some honourable senators have dealt with this matter as if the issue were abortion in the community. Others have dealt with it as if it were a question of self-government and the democratic rights of the people of the Capital Territory. Other honourable senators, including  Senator Cavanagh,  have raised other issues relating to the drafting of the ordinance, its potential effect on what I think  Senator Cavanagh  referred to as civil liberties and the prospect of inconsistency in the application of the law relating to abortion in the Capital Territory as a result. My colleague  Senator Baume  is supporting  Senator Ryan,  despite the fact that he goes further on one particular issue which  Senator Ryan  and the Legislative Assembly do not support. 
I must compliment  Senator Baume  on a fine contribution to this debate, but I think that this situation illustrates the complexity of the issues to which  Senator Ryan's  motion has understandably given rise and the variety of points of view that have been raised with respect to those many issues. I would like to address myself to the substance of the motion moved by  Senator Ryan  in the Senate on 1 1 October and quote from her speech on that day. She said: 
I point out that I am not wishing to canvass the issue of abortion laws; nor am I wishing to canvass the issue of abortion clinics in the Australian Capital Territory. This is not the proper forum or the proper occasion for such a discussion. I have a very limited purpose in moving the motion of disallowance. I have moved it because the Ordinance defies a principle of self-government; it defies a democratic principle in its present form. 

 Senator Ryan reiterated that point during her speech and concluded it in these terms: 
I have not moved anything relating to the laws affecting abortions or the facilities provided for them. 
Again illustrating the diversity of view on this matter,  Senator Button  suggested that it was glib to approach this debate as if it were simply one of self-government and to dismiss the issue of abortion. I believe that  Senator Ryan,  in presenting this matter to the Senate, based her argments very clearly on the question of selfgovernmentthe rights of the Legislative Assembly and its role in the Australian Capital Territory. This raises a number of questions about the role of the Senate and the role that the Senate is seen, not only by us but also by others, to have in relation to the Capital Territory. For example, before and since this Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance came into effect the Government rejected the advice which the Assembly has given on many matters. I would like to refer to a few of those because some of them are matters of considerable substance. They included questions relating to the referendum to be conducted on 25 November, the question ofthe Canberra-Royalla power line, the Territory Authorities (Finance Provisions) Bill, Land Titles Office fees, teachers for occasional care centres and the national velodrome. Therefore, the issue with which we are dealing is only one of many on which the views of the Legislative Assembly have not been accepted by the Government. 
If it is a matter of democratic rights, selfgovernment and the role of the Assembly, surely the suggestion is that this Senate is going to have to deal with these other issues when governments do not take the advice of the Legislative Assembly. The Assembly has also proposed that there should be a casino in the capital. There is a question as to whether, since the Government has rejected that advice, this Senate ought then to be moving to implement the advice ofthe Assembly on that matter as  Senator Ryan  has suggested that we ought to implement its advice in respect of abortion law.  Senator Ryan  has based her argument on the fact that  Mr Hunt  said that the Legislative Assembly should decide the matter. But as far as I am aware he did not say that the decision of the Assembly would be anything other than advisory, as has been the case in relation to many other issues to which I have referred. 
Many comments have been made about  Mr Hunt's  statements.  Senator Ryan  based a substantial element of her argument on them but I do not believe that  Mr Hunt's  statements can be viewed out of the context in which they have to be seen, and that is in relation to the powers of the Legislative Assembly. The Ordinance establishing the Legislative Assembly points out that the Assembly may advise the Minister in relation to any matter affecting the Territory including the making of new ordinances or the repeal or amendment of existing ordinances. I emphasise the words 'may advise'. The Assembly Ordinance goes on to say that the Minsiter may refer to the Assembly any matter upon which he desires the advice of the Assembly. It is my contention that  Mr Hunt's  statements cannot be viewed outside that context of the statutory powers of the Legislative Assembly as it exists, and certainly not before 25 November when a referendum will be held in the Capital Territory on that issue. Perhaps after that date the situation will be different. In relation to the status of the Legislative Assembly,  Senator Ryan  herself conceded in her statement of 1 1 October: 
The Legislative Assembly is not a self-governing body. 
Of course it is not a self-governing body, as indicated in the Assembly Ordinance. In addition, I think we have to ask what the Minister sought advice on. It is necessary to refer to the letter which the then Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Staley,  sent to the Legislative Assembly on behalf of himself and the Minister for Health. In that letter he said: 
The Legislative Assembly will have been made aware by newspaper reports of the intention of a private organisation to establish a clinic at Phillip, ACT, at which abortions can be carried out. 
The Minister for Health and I have had strong representations against the merit of this proposal and both Ministers have been urged to consider action to prevent the establishment of the clinic. 
It is in that context that the views sought by the Minister have to be seen. The request related to the proposal to establish a private abortion clinic in the Territory. The then Minister then indicated that the Assembly might wish to consider the general issues involved and offer advice, but it is clear that the primary intention was for the Assembly to advise the Minister in respect of the proposal to establish a private abortion clinic in the Territory. It is worth pointing out that on that issue- the issue which was basic to the advice sought by the Minister for the Capital Territory and the Minister for Health- the advice of the Assembly was accepted. The Assembly decided and advised that there should be no private abortion clinics in the Capital Territory, and the Minister accepted that advice. 
It was suggested earlier by  Senator Tate  that the existing Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance may well permit the implementation- in fact, I think he suggested emphatically that it could- of the other main recommendations in respect of a public clinic.  Senator Evans  conceded in his speech this afternoon that it certainly was an arguable case in respect of a free-standing clinic at a hospital. I think it is worth remembering in this context that the Capital Territory Health Commission is a community based body. It in fact has on it three members of the Legislative Assembly, one of whom was  chairman  of the committee responsible for report No. 26 which this debate is about. As I understand the situation, this matter has not been raised in the 
Health Commission since that time. The Commission has not moved to test the Ordinance in the way that  Senator Tate  suggested it might be tested. So the matter must remain one for conjecture. But as  Senator Evans  suggested, it certainly seems to be an arguable case. 
I would like to go back to the question of  Senator Ryan's  statement that this matter involves basic democratic rights. The question of self-government or constitutional development in the Capital Territory is to be decided by the people of the Capital Territory by the most democratic possible means- a referendum- on 25 November. If the people of the Capital Territory or a majority of them accept option A the Legislative Assembly will in fact, under Stage 2 of those proposals, have executive power over health matters. If the community does not accept option A the Legislative Assembly will not have executive power over health matters immediately after the referendum or subsequently as a result of that decision, and one must assume that under the Constitution the Parliament will retain this traditional role. But this matter will be decided by the people of the Capital Territory on 25 November. If the people opt for proposal A of the referendum proposals then the Legislative Assembly eventually will have transferred to it powers over health matters and will therefore be competent to legislate on them in its own right. If the people in the Territory do not opt for proposal A but instead opt for proposal B or C then the Assembly will not have those powers and the Government will retain control of those matters as is now the case. 
I would like to refer briefly to the Legislative Assembly committee that dealt with this subject. One member of that committee has since died but of the four members one is a member of the Australian Labor Party and another is the  Chairman  of the Assembly. The remaining two members have in fact both been critical of  Senator Ryan's  motion. I want to refer to statements they have made. In a letter to all honourable senators on 25 October,  Mr Ivor  Vivian wrote: 
As an Australian Democrat member of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly, I urge you to vote against  Senator Ryan's  disallowance motion against the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 1978. 
Whilst I would agree with  Senator Ryan  that all of the Assembly's recommendations should be implemented, it is essential that this Ordinance be enforced as an initial step. 
The Assembly has endorsed this Ordinance and its disallowance would be a blow against the moves by the Assembly towards Self Government. 
I repeat the last sentence.  Mr Vivian  stated: 
The Assembly has endorsed this Ordinance and its disallowance would be a blow against the moves by the Assembly towards Self-Government. 
That is the statement of an Australian Democrats member of the Legislative Assembly and a member of the committee which drew up the report which the Senate is now considering.  Senator Ryan  has made the point- it is a fair point as far as it goes- that this is a matter of selfgovernment and democratic rights. It is that issue that I want to examine. So I am examining the statements and reactions of people in the Assembly to this motion. In addition,  Senator Ryan  based the substance of her motion for disallowance on the question of self-government, on the democratic rights of the citizens of the Capital Territory. But the Labor Party itself then agreed to a conscience vote. Surely it does not have a conscience vote on self-government. One would assume then that the issue is abortion. 
-We have too. I am suggesting that  Senator Ryan's  motion was allegedly based on the question of selfgovernment, yet the Labor Party Caucus saw not that but abortion as the issue. That is why a conscience vote has been provided for by both sides. Another member of that Committee,  Dr Peter  Hughes, issued a statement on 25 October in the following terms - 
I think that it is unfair. I wish to read it so that the point is made but, if I may say so, I think that the reflections on  Senator Ryan  are unfair. The statement reads: 

 Dr Hughes said that  Senator Ryan's  sudden concern to support Legislative Assembly recommendations is unconvincing, as it has only been sparked by one of  Senator Ryan  's enthusiasms, easier abortion in the ACT. 
He went on to say that  Senator Ryan's  statement that the Ordinance prohibits the establishment of abortion clinics by the ACT Health Commission is simply incorrect, and part of the smokescreen that  Senator Ryan  has set up around her attempts to have easier abortion in the ACT. 
The next sentence accuses me of leaving the country to avoid the debate. I think that it was unfair to me also. I reiterate, because it relates to the point made, that - 
I listened to you  Senator Ryan,  in silence out of courtesy. I would like to repeat, because it is relevant to what  Senator Tate  said and to comments by  Senator Evans  to which I have referred, the statement 'that the Ordinance prohibits the establishment of abortion clinics by the ACT Health Commission is completely incorrect'. That may be  Dr Hughes's  opinion but it is an opinion that I think is worth taking into account. It seems to me that the argument about self-government and democratic rights simply does not stand up.  Senator Ryan  herself indicated yesterday in a letter to, I think, all honourable senators that if this disallowance motion is defeated tonight she will introduce a private member's Bill. 
I see.  Senator Ryan  said in her letter that she is prepared to introduce such a Bill rather than to consider doing so. 
I accept that. But the honourable senator said that she was prepared to introduce a Bill, not simply to consider doing so. That would seem to me to get to the crux of the problem because really the substance of the debate will have to be about abortion law. In my view it is not about self-government and it is not about the democratic rights of the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory; it is about abortion. If we are to have a debate about abortion let us do so. The introduction of a private member's Bill would be a good way to do that. I conclude simply by saying that, on the basis  Senator Ryan  has put the case for disallowance, I do not believe that it stands. I believe that the argument is specious and that to try to debate the matter as a matter of self-government or democratic rights really is to avoid the most fundamental issue that is at stake, that is, the question of abortion law.  Senator Ryan  has indicated now that if the Senate disallows her motion she will adopt another means to have this report implemented by introducing a private member's Bill. That would seem to me to be an appropriate way to do it because we would then be debating the real issue and that is abortion. 
But we really do have to ask about the implications of this sort of move for the Senate.  Senator Ryan  says that if the Senate disapproves the disallowance motion she will introduce legislation into the Senate. Is the Senate to become the legislative body of the Capital Territory? If option C is adopted by the people of the Capital Territory on 25 November- if they opt for no change; if they make it clear that they want an advisory body- would the Senate then become the legislative body for the Australian Capital Territory? Would we begin to legislate on casinos as well as abortion and all the other issues? Is  Senator Ryan  going to take the view, because she believes in self-government, that she will introduce into this place legislation on any matter on which the advice of the Assembly is rejected by the Minister or by the Government and have the Senate either disallow the ordinance concerned or pass legislation on it? Is that to be the case? 
-Perhaps it is a little beyond reason but I do not think that it is an entirely unreasonable suggestion. It seems to me that the motion is based on a spurious argument. Therefore I cannot support  Senator Ryan's  motion for disallowance. In the first place I believe that we should wait to hear the views of the people of the Capital Territory in a little over a fortnight. In any case, if  Senator Ryan's  motion is disallowed, she has indicated that she will introduce a private member's Bill and we can then debate the substantive issues which I believe are really at stake. 
I accept what the Minister has said. He acknowledged that significant matters of principle are involved. He said that the matter should be put to study. Could we have some indication or assurance as to whether the results of that study will be made available to Estimates Committee A? 
On this matter of the Committee's consideration of the Auditor-General's activities I refer to the report of Estimates Committee A, in particular to the efficiency audit function of the Auditor-General. I think that report has a significant bearing on the role of the Parliament in that it refers to legislation which was designed to give effect to the Government's decision to permit the Auditor-General to undertake efficiency audits of departments, statutory authorities and government-owned companies. The Estimates Committee was informed in the course of the hearings that the Auditor-General's Office is currently pursuing that activity despite the fact that the legislation is still before the Parliament and does not yet have its concurrence, and that  18  people are already employed in that function. Estimates Committee A recognises in its report that governments and the Public Service should take initiatives in policy and administrative matters, but it also raised the issue of such anticipatory action in relation to the Parliament's consideration of legislation. 
I take the opportunity of discussion in the Committee of the Whole simply to refer to that reference in the report of Estimates Committee A. I would be interested to have the Minister's response on the matter. It may be that it will have to be provided subsequently. It does seem that when a Bill is still before the Parliament and does not have the Parliament's concurrence nor the assent of the Governor-General- we can find ourselves in a situation where the activities covered by that legislation are already being pursued and that in fact as many as 18 people are being employed in those activities- there are raised questions as to what extent departments or authorities of government ought to anticipate approval of legislation by the Parliament. That of course raises the issue of what would happen if that legislation were not approved. I reiterate that Estimates Committee A does recognise that departments and authorities may well be criticised if they do not take action to be prepared to implement those policies on which the Government has clearly indicated it will take action and on which, as in this case, it may introduce legislation. They may well be criticised for not taking action. It seems to me that in this case the Department may well have gone too far. This is a matter that involves very significant principles in the workings of the Executive and of the bureaucracy in particular in relation to Parliament. I think it is a matter to which the Government ought to address itself. Perhaps the Minister can give this Committee some explanation as to why this situation has occurred. 
by leave- I wish to inform the Senate that, whilst the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, had hoped to present its report on planning procedures and processes before the end of this year, it will not now be able to do so. The Committee believes it should await the outcome of the referendum on 25 November which will determine the future governmental arrangements for the Australian Capital Territory. To have reported at this stage on the basis of the present situation might have been seen as acceptance of the status quo and thus as, in some way, prejudicing the outcome. To report in a way that took into account all three referendum options would have been far too complex a task- with much of the effort irrelevant after 25 November. The Committee simply has not had time even to attempt such an effort. As the Parliament will rise before the referendum results can be assessed and before the precise form of future government for the Australian Capital Territory is known, the Committee has decided not to table the report until after the Parliament resumes in February 1979. 
Whilst these considerations have caused the Committee to delay presentation of the report, the opportunity will be taken further to examine issues such as the means of public participation and procedures for appeals against planning decisions. These and other fundamental issues involved in the inquiry will then be related specifically to the outcome of the referendum and to the consequent decisions announced by the Government. The Committee will thus be making recommendations directly relevant to the future constitutional status of the Capital Territory. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, follows earlier inquiries I have made about the preservation of the works of Walter Burley Griffin. I ask the Minister whether it is correct that in East Ringwood and Croydon in Melbourne there is a unique example of Walter Burley Griffin's work in landscaping. Can the Minister indicate what action the Government might take to ensure that this area is preserved as an important part of our national heritage, in recognition of Walter Burley Griffin's contribution to urban planning in Australia, particularly in view of his association with the national capital? 
I want to draw the attention ofthe Senate tonight to a conference held in Canberra on 29 September on the question of future directions for handicapped people. The conference was convened by the Australian Capital Territory Council of Social Service Handicapped Persons Committee in response to many expressions of interest and concern from agencies, parents and others about the needs of the handicapped in the Australian Capital Territory. The keynote address at the conference was delivered by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  The conference was planned by ACTCOSS in consultation with a range of organisations and individuals in the Territory interested in the question of future directions for handicapped people. The goals of the conference were as follows: To provide the mechanism for those involved in work to assist the handicapped and to allow them to exchange information about the needs and services; to discuss major issues of concern in the Australian Capital Territory and in particular to make recommendations about possible future planning and the delivery of services; and, finally, to review the adequacy of government policies and programs that relate to the handicapped. The conference passed a number of resolutions dealing with matters of vital importance to the handicapped, particularly in the immediate future and dealt with questions such as finance, access, recreation, accommodation and the availability of information. The conference also established a working party to pursue some of these matters. I seek leave ofthe Senate to incorporate in  Hansard  the text of the resolutions. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

RESOLUTIONS 
Finance 
This Conference requests that the Department of Social Security recognises Canberra as a State Office. 
That this Conference request that all funding departments advise applicants for subsidies or grants whether the submission is accepted for funding within a reasonable time of lodging such a submission. 
That this Conference request that the Minister for Social Security be asked in the strongest possible terms to adjust the limits on money earned in addition to a pension or sickness benefit; that it be adjusted so that a pensioner can earn the equivalent of the pension or benefit received, and that after that point is reached the pension or benefit be reduced on a $1 for SI ratio. 
This Conference recommends that medical, training and physical aid equipment be subsidised to individuals by the Government under some scheme similar to the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act. 
Access 
This Conference recognises that the question of access is of fundamental importance to handicapped people, particularly access to health services, employment, education, social and recreational facilities, means of transport and stresses the need to urgently improve access to these areas for the handicapped. 
We wish to draw particular attention to access to certain facilities bearing in mind the varying needs ofthe different groups of handicapped people. In particular that the Federal Government should consult with a view to improving physical access to the following facilities where it has relevant responsibility: public telephones; post boxes (including accessibility from an automobile); entrances to public buildings; elevators, public transport; parking areas close to facilities; training and educational facilities; fire escape arrangements. 
That the Federal Government should consult further with the Standards Association of Australia to extend and improve standards agreed with respresentatives of organisations of the handicapped, and that action be taken to have the private sector observe such standards. 
Recreation 
Greatest need is for integrated groups from which handicapped people can gain stimulation. 
Need a pool of volunteers (trained) to work with handicapped people in the area of recreation. These volunteers to be drawn from schools, unemployed, &amp;c. 
Contact established groups that already cater for teenager and adult recreation in order to integrate the handicapped. 
Accommodation 
This Conference demands that the Capital Territory Health Commission plans to accommodate larger numbers than are being currently planned for and that the accommodation should be available before 1981. 
This Conference urges the Capital Territory Health Commission to provide short term relief for people with handicaps whose accommodation needs are not currently being catered for. 
That all hostels be planned on small family lines- not institutional lines- and that the emphasis be a relaxed informal continuance of home life within the community. 
Information 
This Conference, recommends that a Central Information Bureau be established with telephone and counter facilities; that this should be a 24 hour service; that the possibility of using a computer based information system be explored, bearing in mind that visual display units could be located at a number of key places around Canberra. 
That ACTCOSS be requested to establish a working parry of interested organisations to plan and establish such a centre. 
That this working group arrange for the wider distribution of information of health, welfare and education services as well as employment opportunities in the A.C.T. 
Working Party 
This meeting elect a working party of 12-15 members with a reasonable mix of interests. This group has the power to co-opt. 
b ) Goals of the Working Party will be: to develop a charter of rights and responsibilities; to disseminate this charter appropriately; to monitor developments towards achieving this; to call a further conference (say in 12 months) to report progress. 
In conclusion, I simply point out that 1981 is the International Year of the Disabled and this conference was directed specifically at preparatory work and consideration of the issues relevant to the International Year of the Disabled. As noted in the resolutions a working party was established with a number of goals. For example, the working party will look at the development of a charter of rights and responsibilities; it will attempt to disseminate this charter in an appropriate way; it will monitor developments towards achieving the objectives set out in the charter; and it will pursue the objective of calling a further conference. All of these goals, of course, are directed towards the International Year of the Disabled in 198 1. It is for that reason that I think it is important that this matter be drawn to the attention of the Parliament. As  Senator Guilfoyle  herself pointed out in her keynote address, the Government is giving close attention to the International Year of the Child in 1981. A conference such as that convened by the Australian Capital Territory Council of Social Service will in fact provide very useful preliminary work for that very important year. It is for those reasons that I wish to draw this matter to the attention of the Senate. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Education. It relates to the brief statement he made immediately before Question Time dealing with legislation in regard to the Australian National University and the Canberra College of Advanced Education. The Minister has indicated that the legislation will lie on the table of the Senate for some time and, presumably, will not be passed until possibly well into the 1979 academic year. Can the Minister indicate whether the matters dealt with in that legislation are, in fact, intended to apply from the beginning of the 1 979 academic year? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
What action has been taken, or is proposed, concerning the recommendations in the second Report of the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped that: 
The Handicapped Persons Assistance Act 1974 be amended to make specific provision for the evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of capital and recurrent grants made under that Act; and 
the Department of Social Security urgently increase its supervisory resources in respect of the operations of sheltered workshops, activity therapy centres, and other facilities subsidised by the Government under the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. Can the Minister indicate what progress has been made with proposals for a major tourist industry development in the area known as the Jolimont site in Canberra? In particular, can the Minister say whether this matter will be affected in any way by advice from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that significant funds are not likely to be committed to the new post office in the same area of Civic before 1980-81? Can the Minister say when a start might be made on the proposed tourist complex? 
I address a question to the Minister for Education. It relates to the issue of staffing and enrolments in schools in the Australian Capital Territory, which was the subject of some controversy and a teachers strike last year. Can the Minister say whether the problems which some people foresaw then have in fact eventuated? 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as the representative of the Prime Minister, who is responsible for Public Service matters. Is the Minister aware of an innovative program introduced by Telecom Australia to employ handicapped persons in a wide range of employment situations? Can the Minister say whether action is being taken to ensure that other authorities and departments will follow the example of Telcom to utilise the skills of handicapped people in special programs for this purpose, thus recognising the particular skills handicapped people can bring to a wide range of tasks, and to continue the lead that the Commonwealth should give in the employment of handicapped persons? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It relates to the situation in the New Hebrides. Following the declaration of a People's Provisional Government by the nationalist Vanua'aku Party, has a Government of National Unity been formed in the New Hebrides and is the Vanua'aku Party participating in it? What progress is being made towards a constitution and independence for the New Hebrides? Can the Minister say whether Australia is playing any role to ensure a peaceful transition in the New Hebrides? 
The debate already has ranged over a number of issues raised in the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  I should like to focus on one or two matters; but, before doing so, I think it is worth drawing attention to the fact that in a number of statements in the last three years the Foreign Minister has drawn the community's attention to important developments as they have occurred within the international arena. For example, in 1 976 he drew attention to emerging international economic issues which had developed, particularly since 1973, and emphasised the volatility of those sorts of issues in international relations and their potential for causing conflict amongst nations. He qualified the importance of those issues in relation to the continuing significance of what are usually referred to as 'power' politics and ideology in international affairs, and I think it is generally recognised that these remain the main arbiter of international relationships. In a statement to the National Press Club in November 1 976  Mr Peacock  said:   it would be an utter mistake for us to regard the old' and the 'new' agenda as mutually exclusive alternatives- to think that we must accept one completely and reject the other completely. It would be a mistake because things do not work like that. On the one hand, the old issues- the issues of 'power politics '-are not there as a result of capricious choice, but because of the basic character of the international system. They will not go away and cannot be wished away, but will remain of central importance. 
Another theme to which the Foreign Minister has drawn attention in his statements is the growing importance of Third World nations as a group. The Government has set up a committee of inquiry into Australia's relations with the Third World, and the Foreign Minister referred to that in his statement today. He emphasised again the importance that the Government attaches to the role of the Third World as a group of nations, particularly because of its significance, strategically and ideologically, its economic interests, and its views on the need for the development of a new international economic order, which have been pressed in the United Nations over recent times. 
The third major theme that has been referred to by the Foreign Minister in the last three years is the growing concern over signs of possible major conflicts. Again, the Foreign Minister today referred to statements in 1975 in which he foresaw the possibility that Indo-China might become the scene for a Sino-Soviet conflict to be played out. That statement, which was made in October 1975, reflected considerable foresight about what might happen, and indeed has happened, in Indo-China. That foresight was also reflected in his statement to the Parliament in May 1978, from which I quote briefly: 
The world is in the midst of a period of change that could prove to be as significant as any in modern history. The character of international relations as we have known it is changing. 
As I mentioned at the outset. I would like to cover a couple of points which emerge from the Minister's statement and which in many respects draw together those three themes from his earlier statements. The particular point I wish to discuss is the critical role of the super powers in the situation which has developed. The Minister and the Government have recognised this. For example, the Minister makes reference to the importance of the second Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty talks and the impact that recent events might have on these very important talks- important particularly for the control of strategic arms. I should like to quote from what the Minister said, because I think it is especially important: 
The Australian Government strongly supports the completion of SALT II as a crucial contribution to arms control over the next decade. It is precisely because we do so that it is necessary to point out that both in strategic and political terms what is currently happening in Africa, the Middle East  and Asia endangers a new SALT agreement. Such agreements cannot rest on air. They cannot be divorced from the general strategic and political environment and to the extent that the environment deteriorates, their credibility as instruments of crisis management is diminished. They are a product of- not a substitute for- a basic minimum of trust. 
It is the events to which the Foreign Minister referred that in many respects are endangering this quite crucial process of negotiation and, we hope, agreement between the super powers. The Minister has made a very important reference in his statement to the restraint that has been exercised by the Soviet Union in the current crisis in Indo-China. In his statement he makes the point that it is to the Soviet Union's credit that in the present phase of the crisis it has so far shown restraint. I think that is an important concession that should be made to the Soviet Union. Thus far we should recognise that it has exercised very considerable restraint in its approach to the issue. I would suggest that we and others have to be careful not to isolate the Soviet Union and perhaps force it into acts which it would presumably prefer to avoid. In this respect the Minister made a very important statement when he said: 
As we approach the nineteen eighties some perceptive commentators are pointing to a dangerous asymmetry: While the Soviet Union is increasing its already enormous military power faster than any other country, and while it is increasingly active in relation to the trouble spots of the world, politically it is the odd-man-out among the great powers. A country which at the same time feels militarily confident and politically vulnerable may easily miscalculate . . . 
I think that raises important issues, which in a statement of this kind obviously could not necessarily be comprehensively addressed by the Minister. But it does emphasise the importance, as I have already mentioned, of the limitation of strategic arms and the proposed SALT II agreement. It also emphasises the importance of other nations not forcing the Soviet Union into a situation where it considers itself isolated and threatened. Perhaps this sort of attitude is reflected in the treaty which was signed in November between Vietnam and the Soviet Union. Article 6 of that treaty points out: 
The two Parties signatory to the treaty shall exchange views on all important international questions relating to the interests of the two countries. In case either party is attacked or threatened with attack, the two Parties signatory to the treaty shall immediately consult each other with a view to eliminating that threat, and shall take appropriate and effective measures to safeguard peace and the security of the two countries. 
No doubt that sort of statement in the treaty between Vietnam and the Soviet Union reflects, in part, the sons of ambitions we have seen expressed by the Soviet Union in many parts of the world. We should also be concerned that it might express a growing concern on the part of the 
Soviet Union, at least, with its isolation as a great power and indeed as a super power. For example, it is not hard to see that the Soviet Union might feel that Europe, Japan, the United States of America, and China are in fact in many ways aligned against it. I believe that we have to be careful about that sort of development if we expect the Soviet Union to continue to exercise the sort of restraint it has exercised so far in the conflict in Indo-China. I only add that in the context of the tendency towards alignment between Europe, Japan, the United States of America and China, Australia obviously falls into that group along with members of the Association of South East Asian Nations and the countries of the South Pacific. 
It is in that context also that we ought to look at our treaty with the United States of America. We also ought to consider very carefully its real meaning. I have spoken before in the Senate about the need to re-examine that treaty. Certainly we need to re-examine the extent of our reliance upon it, whether it is in rehetoric or whether as it so often does, it goes far beyond rhetoric and the dangers that creates of a false sense of security in this country. 
Article IV of the ANZUS Pact is as follows: 
Each Party recognises that an armed attack in the Pacific Area on any of the Parties would be dangerous to its own peace and safety and declares that it would act to meet the common danger in accordance with its constitutional processes. 
The Minister, in his statement this afternoon referred to the United States in the following terms: 
Over the last few years, and for a variety of reasons, one of the super powers- the United States- has adopted a lower posture and a strategically less active policy towards the Third World. Many, inside the United States and outside it, have welcomed this. I will simply observe, as a matter of fact, that this restraint has not resulted in a greater insulation of the Third World from international power politics. On the contrary, it has coincided with the rapid rise of the situation we now face. 
The Minister's words are very diplomatic but I think that statement reflects the fact that the United States must inescapably adopt a position of active leadership. Earlier today I think  Senator Wheeldon  referred to the need for the democracies of the world to act in some degree of concert. If that is to happen it is important that the United States should give a lead in that process. All I say in relation to that is that we in Australia should not base our strategic thinking only on ANZUS or assume that our security and defence is firm because of ANZUS. 
The Guam Doctrine, as enunciated by President Nixon, made it clear that the United 
States- to put it in its most simplistic terms- will help those who are prepared to help themselves. Australia has existed in peace and security for a long dme. We have established- whatever problems we may face at particular dmes- a relatively secure, affluent, sometimes self-indulgent and often selfish society, because we have been insulated from many of the problems and crises that have faced other parts of the world. As we now look outwards at a potentially major crisis in our own region, then we must question some of the assumptions that have been at the base of our strategic, defence and foreign policy thinking in recent years. I think we must say that we, like many others, look to the United States for more effective leadership, for more decisive action, and it may be worth recalling that in 1976, the Foreign Minister, in his statement to the National Press Club, to which I have already referred, made the following statement: 
In terms of the established traditional agenda, framed essentially in terms of political and military power, our problem has always been that we do not possess enough of that power. Our broad foreign policy strategy has been to make up for that deficiency by maintaining close alliances with other democratic countries. 
That is true. My point is that we must question the assumptions of the past and I think the Foreign Minister does that to a considerable extent. I think we must continue to do so. In doing that we have then got to accept that in this peaceful and relatively quiet continent that we occupy we have a greater responsibility now, and in the future, to do more to look after ourselves. I do not want to canvass the many complex issues and implications in regard to our security outlook, Australian defence policies, or in relation to reserve forces in Australia, but I think they have very significant implications which perhaps can be pursued in the course of another debate in this place. An important element- as I said at the outset, about what the Foreign Minister has been saying for three years- is to stress emerging trends, whether they are economic issues, the increasing role of the Third World, or the growing potential for conflict in the international community. This statement today draws much of that together and raises issues particularly in regard to assumptions that have been behind much of our thinking in the past, assumptions which I believe the Government is now questioning as it ought, and which I believe that we as a community and as a parliament ought to continue to question so that Australia's interests are best protected. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy President, owing to the presence in the Gallery today of representatives of the Aboriginal community of Wreck Bay, who have travelled 200 miles to be here, who cannot be present in the Parliament tomorrow and who are signatories to petitions presented to  Senator Ryan  and me, I seek leave to present these petitions, which are identical in wording, and to have one of them read. These petitions, under Standing Order 76, were received too late for formal presentation this day because of the journey to Canberra of the people from Wreck Bay. It is because of these circumstances that  Senator Ryan  and I seek leave of the Senate to follow this procedure while the people of Wreck Bay are present and ask that the petition be read. 
Leave granted. 

 The petition read as follows- 

The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, the petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
We are the members of the Aboriginal Community of Wreck Bay. 
In 1952  Mr Robert  Brown SM(Retd.) then acting for the Commonwealth Department of the Interior surveyed the boundaries of the Wreck Bay Aboriginal Reserve. 
The understanding has been that the land as then surveyed should be set aside in toto as the Wreck Bay Aboriginal Reserve. 
The Wreck Bay Aboriginal Housing Company Limited is the duly constituted body representing the Wreck Bay Aboriginal Community. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should initiate legislation for the granting of freehold title to all that land surveyed in 1952 by  Mr Robert  Brown to the Wreck Bay Aboriginal Housing Company Limited. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to a pamphlet which sought 'fair play' for Australian records on Australian radio stations and to the case put yesterday by representatives of the Australian Music Makers Association. Can the Minister say whether the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal has yet decided whether the quota for Australian records should be lifted to 30 per cent with incremental increases to 40 per cent? Does the Minister agree that Australian musicians and recording artists deserve fair play and that the 20 per cent quota has already shown that this system can substantially encourage the growth of Australian talent? Does the Government support the proposed 30 per cent quota as a minimum requirement for Australian artists? 
I address a question to the Minister for Education and refer to a question I asked on 2 1 February concerning the staffing of schools in the Australian Capital Territory. At that time the Minister indicated that returns of enrolments from schools were due to be received by the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority on that day. Can the Minister now say whether, in view of this information, the staffing provision of 2,772 will be sufficient for Australian Capital Territory government schools in 1979? 
A number of issues relating to payroll tax and this legislation have been canvassed this evening.  Senator Ryan  covered a number of other issues relating to the Australian Capital Territory and I would also like to make mention of those issues. I note that  Senator Ryan  indicated that she and the Opposition- this has also been indicated by  Senator Georges-  do not oppose this legislation.  Senator Ryan  made the comment that the provisions in the legislation to increase the exemption from payroll tax were in fact too little, too late. I would note in relation to that statement only that what we are doing in fact is to ensure that payroll tax exemptions in the Capital Territory are in line with those in New South Wales. As has been the case in the past, the payroll tax provisions in the Australian Capital Territory are to be brought into line with the payroll tax provisions contained in the last Budget of the New South Wales Labor Government. 

 Senator Ryan discussed this legislation in the context of its relevance to business in the Capital Territory and to the Capital Territory generally. She referred to many issues relevant to Canberra and the Australian Capital Territory. She talked, for example, about the policies of the current Government and suggested that those policies have led to the total disruption of Canberra. I think I reflect her words accurately in saying that. I suggest that one has only to look around Canberra to see that such a statement is incorrect. Canberra is not facing any such thing as total disruption. No one would deny that Canberra and the Capital Territory, in common with many other areas in our nation, are facing particular problems because of the nature of the Territory. 

 - Senator Cavanagh says it is an impoverished area. I simply cannot agree with the honourable senator. I think that sort of comment is demonstrably nonsense. On the latest figures which became available a week or two ago, Canberra is far ahead of any other Australian city on average weekly earnings- 
If you insist,  Senator Cavanagh,  I must point out that in the last two years the consumer price index in Canberra has increased at a lesser rate than the average of the six other capitals in Australia. In fact Canberra is not an impoverished area. 
It is not an area that has suffered from severe price rises. In some areas there have been substantial rises but, judging from the statistics available- I suggest you might at least do that- Canberra has not been severely treated. It is utter nonsense to suggest that Canberra is facing total disruption. A walk out of the front of this building and a drive into the city or the suburbs shows that it is demonstrably untrue to suggest that.  Senator Ryan  suggested that the national policies of the current Government have had a devastating effect on the Australian Capital Territory. I would remind her and others who may make such statements that Canberra, like all other parts of Australia, has benefited very substantially from the reduction in inflation from 18 per cent to about 8 per cent. Every person in Canberra has benefited from that. In the years 1976-77 and 1977-78, if I recall the years correctly, Canberra had a lower increase in its consumer price index, as recorded by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, than the average of the six other capitals. It does not help for people to talk Canberra down. I would be the last to deny that there are problems here with respect to retail trade, the construction industry and unemployment, but these are shared in common with many other areas. 
Canberra has some unique problems because the Australian Capital Territory is a unique place. Canberra is a city based on the Public Service. For that reason and because of the policies the Government is compelled to pursue we have our own special problems.  Senator Ryan  referred to staff ceilings and the impact of the Government's policies with respect to the Public Service. I was a member of a Senate committee which examined the Department of Foreign Affairs and problems which had arisen as a result of staff ceilings, but there is another side of the matter which  Senator Ryan  prefered to dismiss. I quote from the most recent report of the National Capital Development Commission where the 
Commission refers to the impact of staff restrictions on the work of the Commission. The report at page 6 states: 
Given the likelihood of continuing restraints on levels of Public Service employment, without any corresponding reduction in the overall amount of work to be done, the Commission feels that it has no option but to find ways of improving its overall efficiency and productivity while at the same rime maintaining desirable scope for job satisfaction on the part of its staff. Through the progressive introduction of corporate planning techniques there have been noticeable gains in efficiency and productivity, and it is anticipated that there is further scope in this regard. 
I mention that because it is a statutory authority based in Canberra and is in many ways responsible for the planning and development of this city. As that report makes quite clear, staff restraints have led the Commission to re-examine its approach and consequently has led, as they say, to gains in efficiency and productivity, and it is anticipated that there is further scope in this regard. I emphasise that whilst there are problems it is wrong to talk Canberra down and to suggest it is all bad. It is far from that. On the contrary, I think there is a lot of good to be said for what is happening in the Australian Capital Territory. 

 Senator Watson made the point that Canberra is going through a period of consolidation. As recorded in the NCDC's latest report and reflected in the latest figures available, Canberra has a population growth rate of about 3 per cent, still one of the highest urban growth rates in Australia. From a very rapid growth rate in the vicinity of 9 per cent or 10 per cent, we have reduced to 3 per cent. That is reflected in reductions in NCDC spending because one does not have to spend as much when the rate of growth is not so great.  Senator Watson  referred to a period of consolidation. In that regard I refer to a statement made by the Commissioner of the NCDC,  Mr Powell,  in his latest report to the Minister where he made the following comment about the situation in the ACT: 
The year under review has been marked by a continuation of lower levels of population growth compared with the mid-1970s. The growth rate is tending to stabilise at about 3 per cent per annum. The local economy is still in the process of adjusting to this change and it has been characterised by relatively high levels of unemployment and a general slowing down in business activity, particularly in the construction industry. 
I think that is an accurate and fair statement, far more reasonable than the statements  Senator Ryan  was making. It certainly is not a statement which is talking Canberra down, as was the case with  Senator Ryan's  remarks. I believe that the ACT is one of the finest urban environments and one of the finest cities in the world in which to live and I do not think remarks of the kind made by  Senator Ryan  are of any help. 

 Senator Ryan referred to the oversupply of retail space in the ACT. As I said earlier, this is not a problem that I or anybody else would deny. There is a serious oversupply in some areas. But  Senator Ryan  then suggested that this was a direct result of- as I think she put it- 'Fraser 's policies'. She said that this excess of retail space was based on assumptions of the continuing rapid rate of growth. I point out that the first substantial efforts to curtail the growth of Canberra were taken in the 1975 Budget when it became clear to everybody who cared to look- including the Labor Government at that time- that the very high rate of growth and very rapidly expanding expenditure in the ACT simply could not be sustained. As I recall it, in 197.5, the Labor Government cut back the rate of work on the National Gallery and the High Court. Those issues were matters of some controversy at the time. It was only when the present Government was elected that those projects were put back to the full rate of construction. Things of that kind are worth remembering. 
I believe it is a far more reasonable approach to suggest that those rates of growth simply could not be sustained and the Labor Government in 1975 recognised that as it has been recognised since. I mention these points simply to emphasise that if, as  Senator Ryan  claims, there is an 'antiCanberra bias' in the present Government's policies that bias began in the 1975 August Budget, not in 1976. Frankly, I do not believe they were anti-Government policies then and certainly they are not now. They are policies which make good economic sense and maintain a high rate of growth in the Capital Territory. There are problems, and I refer to the statement of the Commissioner of the NCDC where he refers to problems with respect to unemployment in the construction industry and with business activity. This is true. But it was because the very high rates of growth expectations were to a degree unrealistic and simply could not be sustained. No responsible government could continue to sustain the sort of growth that was occurring in Canberra in the context of national needs with respect to economic policy.  (Quorum formed).  I feel compelled to express my heartfelt gratitude to  Senator Georges  for calling a quorum. In doing so, I must express my equally deep regret that there are only three Labor senators in the chamber. I had hoped that there would have been more. At least the chamber is crowded with Government senators and that is very pleasing. I was examining the relative policies with respect to Canberra.  Senator Ryan  in her speech made reference to charges imposed upon the people of 
Canberra and the effect that these have had. It is instructive to look at the increases in rates imposed in the three Budgets introduced during the period of the Labor Government and the increases in the first three Budgets of the LiberalNational Country Party Government. Those increases illustrate that the present Government has not set out to impose excessive charges, particularly when compared to the previous Labor Government, on the people of Canberra. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which sets out the comparative increase in rates. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

LABOR GOVERNMENT BUDGETS 
General Rate Increases: 1973-74-15.92 per cent; i974.75_9.47 percent; 1975-76-34.70 percent. 
Water Rate  Increses:  1973-74-20.00 per cent; 1 974-75-12.96 per cent; 1 975-76-59.60 per cent. 
Sewerage Rates Increases: 1973-74-66.66 per cent; i974.75_6.OO percent; 1975-76-38.50 percent. 
LIBERAL GOVERNMENT BUDGETS 
General Rate Increases: 1976-77-3.12 per cent; 1977-78-17.91 percent; 1978-79-3.20 percent. 
Water Rate Increases: 1976-77-21.97 per cent; 1977-78- nil; 1978-79-2.70 percent. 
Sewerage Rate Increases: 1976-77-11.11 per cent; 1977-78-41.40 percent; 1978-79-23.00 percent. 
As I have mentioned,  Senator Ryan  talked about the 'total disruption' of Canberra and the fact that the present Government has allegedly done terrible damage to the city and to the Territory. She did not mention some of the major projects that this Government has initiated and undertaken. 
I do not want to bore  Senator Georges  with a list of the projects but I will mention a few.  Senator Ryan  referred to the fact that the Government is committed to a new parliament house to cost $ 1 50m. There are also many other projects. A national archives building is to be constructed as a result of the initiatives that this Government has taken in the Australian Capital Territory. At the initiative of this Government the Public Service Board is to have a new headquarters in Canberra costing, I think, $8m. I know that many public servants in the Territory who have been working in inadequate conditions will be pleased about that sort of decision. 
-Senator Walsh asks about the High Court of Australia building. The honourable senator was not present in the chamber when I referred to the fact that in 1975 the Labor Government reduced the rate of construction on the High Court building. It was not until the present Government came to power that work on the High Court building returned to normal. I was listing some of the things that the present Government has done in the Territory, as well as some of the initiatives that are proposed. A city bus interchange will be built. An interchange has been constructed at Belconnen already. There is to be a new Civic post office and a major tourist development built at a cost of up to $20m- perhaps more- on the Jolimont site in Civic. That will be an important element in consolidating the growth of Civic Centre. In various areas- particularly in Belconnen, for example- there have been major infrastructural works. I refer to the duplication of Ginninderra Drive, the duplication of the Barton Highway, and the building of Kuringa Drive. Now, in contrast with 1975, people in these newer suburbs generally get their drivestrips, footpaths and street lighting when they move into their houses, not many months later. 
The Government has provided improved facilities such as the heating of Macquarie swimming pool for the people of Belconnen. A significant problem existed in that area where adequate facilities of this kind were not available. It has initiated the redevelopment of the Causeway in Narrabundah, where a large group of people, often on low incomes or otherwise disadvantaged, are now living in new houses. A complete redevelopment is being undertaken. The Government has constructed the Deakin telephone exchange, which I think is valued at $15m. It has completed construction of Calvary Hospital, which was begun in the 1960s by a Liberal-Country Party Government. As I have already mentioned, the Government has speeded up construction of the National Gallery and the High Court buildings. This Government provided $ lm to extend the Koomarri school f&amp;r handicapped children. That money was not available previously. The Government has ended the transfer of public servants to places such as the Bathurst-Orange growth centre. That was a matter of great concern to public servants in Canberra in 1975. That practice was not proceeded with by the present Government. I have already referred to the question of staff ceilings and the impact that they have had on, for example, on the National Capital Development 
Commission. I think that it is an instructive exercise. 
I make these comments simply because those issues were raised by  Senator Ryan,  I think not in direct relation to this legislation but in relation to it in some respects. I felt it necessary to answer her attempts to talk down the Territory and Canberra. I believe that that is damaging behaviour not becoming a senator representing the Australian Capital Territory. I can only say that I think the increased exemption in the payroll tax provisions is overdue. I hope that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  will give some consideration to making these increases automatic in the future. I realise there are problems with that but it should be possible to ensure that businesses in Canberra, particularly in respect to payroll tax, are not disadvantaged in any way compared to businesses in neighbouring towns, especially Queanbeyan but also, for example, Goulburn, Yass and Cooma. It would seem to me that in future businesses in Canberra ought to receive automatically the same payroll tax exemption levels as businesses in New South Wales. This measure will be welcomed by the small businesses in the Territory. It is well known that small businesses in many parts of the Territory are faced with a number of problems. 
As  Senator Watson  has mentioned, payroll tax was introduced in April 1941 along with child endowment legislation. The two were part of a policy relating to the wage system. In the 1950s that link was lost. As  Senator Watson  suggests, there are many questions in regard to the value and virtue of payroll tax. I find that there are strong arguments for and against it. I am certainly undecided on  Senator Watson's  argument for its abolition. However, it seems to me that we ought to be looking at payroll tax as more of an incentive to small business. But even if the exemption is set at a level of $66,000, this does not provide a significant incentive to businesses that employ more people than the exemption and the sliding scale will cover. It seems to me that in the future we ought to be giving some consideration to measures that might provide for exemptions not relating simply to an amount but to a number of employees engaged by an employer and to a substantially larger number than would be covered, for example, by current exemption levels which apply now in New South Wales, Victoria and the Australian Capital Territory, the basic exemption being $66,000. I conclude by saying only that I think that this legislation will be welcomed in the Territory. I certainly welcome it but I hope that the Government might be able to consider the possibility in future, when New South Wales Budgets are introduced, of having some mechanism whereby legislation is introduced to ensure that the Capital Territory is brought into line with businesses in neighbouring towns automatically or rather more promptly than has been the case with this legislation. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. In reply to a question from  Senator Lajovic  on 22 February the Minister referred to a statement by the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority on the principles underlying its policy of freedom of choice in government schools in the Australian Capital Territory. Can the Minister now provide any further information about the implementation of this policy by the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority? In particular, can he say whether any practical difficulties have been encountered in its implementation? 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the answer given by  Senator Carrick  to  Senator Bonner's  question and, in that context, to this statement by  Senator Inouye  in the United States Senate: 
History has taught us that financing will not flow to countries where investors have been dealt with unfairly in the past. As a result, I am deeply concerned that failure to resolve promptly the Fraser Island situation will create further uncertainty over the security of foreign investment in Australia at a time when that investment is sorely needed and is being actively pursued. 
In view of this situation, and the concern expressed in business, political and other circles in the United States as to the decision of the Australian Government, can the Minister indicate whether the deadline to which he referred, and the appointment of an independent arbitrator with respect to compensation, might be reconsidered by the Government? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I refer to the recent report of the Australian Science and Technology Council on the future role of the Bureau of Mineral Resources. Can the Minister say what action the Government is taking on the recommendations of the report? Can he give an assurance that the consideration of these matters by the Government will be given high priority? 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I present a report on Ginninderra Creek and Lake Ginninderra, and proposals to vary the plan of lay out of the city of Canberra and its environs, series 66A, together with extracts from the transcript of evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a statement relating to the report. 
Leave granted. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I present the report of the Committee on Ginninderra Creek and Lake Ginninderra which incorporates series 66A of variations to the plan of Canberra. Dissents have been recorded on two aspects of the Committee's recommendations. 
Because of the unique system of government in the ACT, this Committee often becomes an important avenue of appeal for citizens interested in or concerned about developments or proposals for development in the national capital. The Committee has in the past been involved in many issues of concern to residents of the Territory. The Committee 's first report which was presented in 1 957 dealt with trading hours in Canberra. The Committee has also been involved in inquiries into the local milk industry, Sunday observance, employment opportunities, breathalyser tests, waste disposal and a range of others. 
Again, because of the system of government in the Territory, the ACT Assembly was able to express its opinion to the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  on the proposed developments relating to Ginninderra Creek and Lake Ginninderra. This Committee, however, was able to call representatives from both the Department of the Capital Territory and the National Capital Development Commission to appear before it and question them on the issues involved. We are also able to present this report to the national Parliament as a basis for the Federal Government's and its agencies' future planning for these areas. The Committee in recent years has also endeavoured to allow for greater public participation in the planning and development process in Canberra to the extent possible through the Committee's activities and within its terms of reference. 
This inquiry in the Committee's view has been an especially important one. It has allowed the public to have a say on an issue that aroused interest among a large number of people in the Belconnen area in particular. But there is also now wide acceptance that authorities involved in urban planning and development have a responsibility to preserve important elements of the natural environment not only for their own sake but also as an essential element in the future urban environment for a variety of recreational and educational purposes. Canberra is a rapidly growing urban area although there has been a slow-down in the growth rate from the very high levels of the recent past. With rapid growth it is more difficult to sustain a long-term perspective on the future needs of the community, particularly such amenities as open or green spaces. It is essential that the future needs of a highly urbanised society for open or green spaces should be taken into account to the maximum practical extent in urban planning. This is an issue of considerable significance to all those associated with, but particularly those living in, the national capital. 
In this report the Committee has set down its views on how it believes development along Ginninderra Creek and around Lake Ginninderra should proceed. It recognises that it does not have the specialised expertise to be dogmatic about all future planning needs and priorities. It has framed its recommendations in the context of the views expressed to it in submissions and by members of the community who have an interest in the issues. We have sought to reach reasonable and practical conclusions taking into account, to the extent we can, the future needs of the community. 
The main issue in this inquiry was the importance of recreation space in the urban environment in one of the Territory's newest and fastest growing areas. Belconnen has grown from a population of just over 15,000 in 1970 to about 70,000 in 1979. It is not only the amount of open or green space provided for recreation which has to be considered but also the quality of that space. The ACT is a dry inland area particularly subject to the vagaries of the elements as dramatically emphasised by the recent bushfires. In this report the Committee has referred to another report by professor George Seddon entitled 'an open space system for Canberra'. In that report Professor Seddon noted inequities in the distribution of natural resources for recreation within the ACT and made particular reference to the lack of recreation areas in Belconnen. Lake Ginninderra and Ginninderra Creek provide the opportunity for the development of recreation areas in Belconnen which could make a significant difference to that situation. 
Before moving to the Committee's findings and recommendations, I must refer to some reservations which the Committee had about the submissions made to it by the Department of the Capital Territory and the National Capital Development Commission. The Department made a seven page submission which the Committee found inadequate in detail and in its treatment of the issues involved in the inquiry. It can perhaps be best described as a scrappy effort. The National Capital Development Commission provided a submission which dealt mainly with Ginninderra Creek and gave only limited attention to Lake Ginninderra. It was in fact a booklet produced in October 1978 for other purposes and which had been distributed before this inquiry began. NCDC did provide further information at the Committee's request. For example, estimates were provided of costs involved in proposed future development or its curtailment around the lake though the Committee did not find these entirely satisfactory. 
In contrast, the Ginninderra Community Council provided a comprehensive submission to the Committee. The Council, in putting forward its submission, was supported by a petition from over 1,600 residents of the area. The Committee compliments the Council on its submission and, despite relatively limited resources, its efforts to make it comprehensive and detailed and to involve a substantial number of people from the community in its work. 
In this report which I now table, the Committee has approved the variations along Ginninderra Creek proposed by NCDC. In addition it has suggested the deletion of a further 19 housing blocks in Evatt in an effort to extend slightly the area of open space along the creek. This should ensure there is no undue intrusion of housing development on the natural areas of the creek in this area. The Committee has also recommended that the proposed extension of Conley Drive to Copland Drive not proceed until there is a clear demand and need for that extension. 
The Committee was particularly concerned to ensure that Lake Ginninderra be effectively developed as a major recreational asset in the northern area of the Territory. The Committee has sought not to be over-prescriptive in its recommendations for the lake but has aimed at preserving reasonable areas of open space around the lake. It has not tried to usurp the role of the planners but rather to set before them clear guidelines within which they should operate in planning for the development of the lake and its immediate environs. 
The Committee has found that housing development on the Lake Ginninderra peninsula would be inappropriate and that any future development on the peninsula should be limited to recreational purposes. It has recommended that NCDC provide a range of options for the peninsula and for the community to be consulted before final decisions are made. In relation to the western side of the lake, the Committee has suggested that some of the land proposed for housing be retained as parkland with further provision for recreational facilities. The Committee is also concerned about development occurring close to the foreshores in certain areas. However, the Committee does not propose what Professor Seddon referred to as 'the cordon sanitaire'. There is scope for what is referred to as 'hard edge' development at certain points around the lake. 
A further recommendation proposes an investigation into the establishment of a wildlife refuge, preferably in the north eastern shallows. The Committee has also recommended that the former hospital site be retained for recreational or institutional purposes. 
One dissent by four members of the Committee relates to development along Ginninderra Creek in Latham. The Joint Committee had previously approved the development of sections 102, 103 and 104 in Latham. The Committee has now recommended that the gazettal of sections 102, 103 and 104 stand. However, the dissenting report recommends that the development of those sections for medium-density housing should not proceed. The other dissent concerns the peninsula of Lake Ginninderra. Two members have recommended that more information be provided on a wider range of possible uses for the development of the peninsula. 
In its report the Committee has tried to adopt a reasonable and balanced approach to the development of residential accommodation and the provision of recreational areas and facilities for the residents of Belconnen and the Territory. It is recognised that the community's needs and wishes even in the near future may differ from those of today. The Committee is conscious of the lack of natural recreational areas in Belconnen when compared with other parts of Canberra, and its recommendations are intended to assist in overcoming this imbalance. Ginninderra Creek and Lake Ginninderra should be a valuable recreational, educational, social and historical resource for the residents of that area, but also for residents of the whole Territory. The Committee considers that its recommendations make suitable provision for the recreational requirements of residents now and, we hope, in the future. 
I direct a question to  Senator Webster,  in view of the oversight on the part of  Senator Mason.  It is directed to  Senator Webster  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. I refer to local preference schemes which I understand operate in New South Wales and Victoria and which provide for up to a 10 per cent advantage for local firms tendering for the provision of goods and services in those States. Will the Minister consider as a matter of urgency the introduction of a similar preference scheme in the Australian Capital Territory to protect and assist local firms in their work for the Commonwealth Government? 
I raise just one point in respect of Australian Capital Territory representation on the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia. The Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  made the point that CEMAA is a non-statutory industry body and that the Government does not feel it appropriate to intervene. Of course, the Australian Capital Territory is not fully represented on CEMAA because there is no egg marketing board in the Australian Capital Territory. I ask the Minister whether some consideration could be given to the special character of the Territory in that the Federal Government has a particular role to play here. Presumably it would decide whether or not there would be an egg marketing board in the Territory. If there were to be such a board, presumably the Territory would be fully represented on CEMAA. I just wonder whether the Federal Government, because of its special role in the Territory, might have another look at this matter to see whether the Territory could and should be fully represented on CEMAA. 
I take this opportunity to speak on these two Bills dealing with the poultry industry because of some problems relating to this industry in the Australian Capital Territory. The Poultry Industry Levy Amendment Bill proposes an increase from $ 1 to $2 in the annual levy per hen. The Poultry Industry Assistance Amendment Bill will allow future payments from the trust fund created by those levies to assist the industry in the Territory as well as in the States which are parties to the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia. This is to ensure that Australian Capital Territory producers are not disadvantaged in any way by the proposed increase in the levy. As has already been mentioned, over the years the Australian Capital Territory has paid into the trust fund in the vicinity of $860,000 but, in fact, has received nothing in financial terms in return. Its producers, however, have gained to some extent because of the impact of more orderly marketing and also, of course, from the research that has occurred as a result of payments out of the trust fund during the time that it has operated. Although  Senator Walsh  has indicated that he will in the Committee stage raise a number of problems relating to the Australian Capital Territory, I take the opportunity of the second reading debate to raise some of those problems to which he may wish to refer later but which I, as a representative of the Territory, would like to put on the record at this stage. 
There are a number of problems in the poultry industry in the Australian Capital Territory which has one major producer and two smaller producers. They currently have a hen quota of 150,000 birds. One of the problems facing those producers is that the Australian Capital Territory is not a full member of the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia- it is an observer only- and I believe that this poses a number of problems to which I will refer in more detail later. Another matter is that the Australian Capital Territory does not produce a surplus of eggs. It is to be noted that it has sought an increased hen quota but has not been successful in obtaining one. The Australian Capital Territory has been the subject of what I believe can fairly be referred to as the dumping of eggs from Victoria. This has affected local producers. Another problem which faces producers in the Australian Capital Territory is that they do not benefit directly from reimbursements from the trust fund although they do benefit through the process of orderly marketing. Obviously, the practice of the Victorian Egg Marketing Board of selling eggs and cutting prices in the Australian Capital Territory contrary to the CEMAA agreement has not contributed to orderly marketing. Finally, still in relation to that point, there is the question of the reimbursement of producers in the Australian Capital Territory with some of the funds which they pay into the trust fund. That fund is used to finance administration, research and price equalisation to assist in the export of egg surpluses. The Australian Capital Territory does not produce such a surplus. As  Senator Walsh  has already mentioned, the Territory's producers are looking for a reasonable and fair reimbursement from the fund of the levies which they will pay under this Poultry Industry Levy Amendment Bill which increases the levy from $1 to $2 per hen. 
In view of the points I have mentioned, I believe that the Australian Capital Territory should have a seat, a full voice and full rights on the Council. I recognise the fact that the Council is seen essentially as a States organisation. That in itself is in many ways characteristic of the traditional attitudes in the States to the Territories and so often to the Australian Capital Territory. However, I think it has been overlooked to a degree that the Australian Capital Territory in relative terms has what is regarded by it as an important industry- its poultry industry. It is important to the producers and consumers of the Australian Capital Territory. Therefore, it is important to the people of the Territory that the Australian Capital Territory should have a proper and full say in the activities of CEMAA. After all, as I have already mentioned, it has contributed approximately $860,000 to the trust fund. 
The Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia consists of members of all the State egg marketing boards. Of course, it can be readily argued that the Australian Capital Territory is not represented on CEMAA because there is no egg marketing board in the Australian Capital Territory. That begs the question whether it is necessary for the Australian Capital Territory to have an egg marketing board in order for it to be properly represented on CEMAA. Should we not have some form of egg marketing board in the 
Territory or some similar body which would ensure that the Australian Capital Territory is properly and fully represented on the Council? As I understand it the Council has agreed to the attendance at its meetings of a representative of the Department of the Capital Territory as an observer so that the views of the Territory can be considered in matters where the Australian Capital Territory is affected. My point is that there are obvious limitations in that sort of representation and that the Australian Capital Territory should have a full voice in line with that of the States on this Council so that this industry and the Territory is properly protected. I have already mentioned a number of factors which lead me to make that suggestion and 1 would like to discuss them in greater detail. 
As I have indicated, the Australian Capital Territory does not produce a surplus, but it does contribute to the levy which is used for price equalisation to assist in the export of eggs which are produced by the States producing a surplus. I understand that in 1972 the hen quota for the Australian Capital Territory was set at 85,000 birds and that in 1975 this was increased to 150,000, but a more recent request by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  for an additional 25,000 hens has in fact been rejected by all States because of excess production. That illustrates the very point I am trying to make. Because excess production does not occur in the Territory, we in fact need an increased quota of hens to be sure that we can produce the quantity of eggs that is required by the consumers of the Territory. The States, through the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia, have rejected the Australian Capital Territory's request for an additional quota but it is the States, not the Australian Capital Territory, which are producing surplus eggs which need to be exported and which are therefore required to be subsidised by the levy which producers in the Australian Capital Territory have to pay. For those sorts of reasons, I believe that the Territory should have a seat on the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia and a proper say in that Council. I believe that there is a case for a proper reimbursement of the levy to producers in the Territory who do not produce a surplus which requires export. I believe that a close look is needed at the problem of the disposal of surplus eggs by at least one State- Victoria- in the Territory, contrary to agreements made within the Council. I believe also that there needs to be reconsideration of the hen quota. 
I have already referred to the first of those matters, that is, the question of a seat for the Territory on the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia. I would like to refer in greater detail to the reimbursement of levy contributions to producers in the Territory. As I understand it, the return to State producers has amounted over the years to about 75 per cent of the levy. Again as I understand it, Territory producers do not seek an exemption from payment of the levy, but they do want fair treatment in relation to the terms and conditions under which the States and the Australian Capital Territory pay their contributions to the levy and the basis on which they are reimbursed. As I have already mentioned, the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia, after meeting the cost of administration and research, uses the levy for the equalisation of returns on eggs by State egg marketing boards and if any egg marketing board receives levy reimbursements in excess of its equalisation requirements the excess is returned direct to the producers on a 'per hen' basis. The provision of the levy has been confined to the States for this purpose of equalisation, as I have mentioned. The amendment to the Poultry Industry Levy Act which we are now considering will allow the trust fund to assist the Territory as well. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  in his second reading speech, said: 
The purpose is to ensure that Territory producers are not disadvantaged vis-a-vis other producers by the proposed increase in the hen levy maximum. 
That suggests to me that they have been disadvantaged in the past. The fact that it is increasing is not the essential element in this regard; it is the fact that the levy is paid at all. This matter has been raised previously. My understanding is that action is to be taken to try to rectify the situation. In a letter dated 13 March the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  stated: 
With the new maxium rate of hen levy it is possible, depending on the recommendations made by the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia (CEMAA) for reimbursement of the levy, that some States could receive more money than they require for equalisation purposes. Should this eventuate, the CEMAA has given assurances that the excess money will be paid direct to producers on a per hen basis. 
In the States, any such payments will be made by the State Egg Boards. In the case of the Australian Capital Territory, the payments will be made by my Department, the Department of Primary Industry. 
The letter continues: 
The payments to producers could vary, however, as between States due to the extent to which levy reimbursements are required to meet losses on the export of eggs from the States. 
The legislation provides that before approving any payments from the Poultry Industry Trust Fund, the Minister for 
Primary Industry should take into consideration any recommendations which the CEMAA makes on this matter. 
Whilst I cannot anticipate what the CEMAA will recommend, I envisage that payments to Australian Capital Territory Producers under these arrangements would be in line with the payments made to New South Wales producers, as egg prices in the Australian Capital Territory are essentially based on the New South Wales price structure. 
As I have already mentioned, the Australian Capital Territory is not represented on CEMAA. It does not produce a surplus of eggs. The arrangements have been considered by the major producer in the Territory, Parkwood Eggs Pty Ltd. In a letter dated 26 March from that producer to me it is stated: 
It was proposed . . . 
In the CEMAA arrangements that the Minister referred to- 
. that payments to the Australian CapitalTerritory egg producers would be in line with the payments made to New South Wales producers. 
The above proposal is completely unacceptable to ACT producers for the following reasons. 
It then goes on to give a number of reasons. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the letter from Parkwood Eggs Pty Ltd which sets out those reasons. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Earlier when listing the sorts of problems faced by producers in the Territory I referred to the sale of eggs in the Territory by the Victorian Egg Marketing Board. I also mentioned that the Territory does not in fact produce a surplus and that there had been an agreement between members of the CEMAA that this sort of thing would not occur in the interests of orderly marketing, which is the whole purpose of the legislation that we are considering and the measures that are taken under it. I understand that in April 1978 the Victorian Egg Marketing Board started selling eggs in the Capital Territory. Despite the fact that the Territory had the lowest priced eggs in Australia on average, the Victorian Egg Marketing Board sold eggs in the Territory at lower prices than those current in the Territory. They were, I understand, also much lower than the prices being charged in Victoria. One can only assume that the purpose of cutting prices in this context was not to provide any advantage to consumers but rather to ensure that surplus production in Victoria was dumped in the Territory, to the detriment of the producers here. That was stopped by an interim order of the Federal Court of Australia. I understand that the matter is still to be finalised. I also understand that the Australian Agricultural Council has given some sort of indication to the Victorian Egg Marketing Board that the discounting it undertook in the Territory was contrary to the interests of the industry and orderly marketing in the industry. 
I received another letter from the Manager of Parkwood Eggs Pty Ltd enclosing a document distributed by the Victorian Egg Marketing Board. He says that it indicates that at the moment there is a rationing of Victorian eggs in Victoria and an unlimited supply of Victorian eggs in Canberra. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the text of the document from the Victorian Egg Marketing Board. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

THE VICTORIAN EGG MARKETING BOARD 
General Instruction No. 707 
Agent Instruction No. 6 1 6 8th March, 1 979 
Producer Agent Instruction No. 67 
To all grading floors and producer agents supplying egg wholesalers 
Restriction on the supply of larger eggs 
In view of the high demand and the extreme seasonal reduction in the supply of larger eggs, it has been determined that only a limited quantity of larger eggs are available as compared with overall sales during the four weeks ended 16th December, 1978. 
The present available percentage is as follows: 
Accordingly in order to ensure an equitable distribution of larger eggs to Egg Wholesalers having regard to their customer's normal requirements, the Board hereby instructs that effective Monday 12th March, 1979 until further notice you restrict your supply of these grades to your Egg Wholesalers to the percentage of their total requirements as shown on the list attached to this instruction. 
This instruction will ensure that Egg Wholesalers being supplied by more than one location will receive their correct allocation of large grades from each supplier. The attached schedule shows the Egg Wholesalers normally supplied by you and any enquiries from other Egg Wholesalers cannot be met without the written approval of the Board. 
It is also required that you restrict supplies of larger eggs to your retail customers to the following percentages (which reflects the above availability): 
Supplies of larger eggs in excess of your customer's allocations are to continued to be transferred to the Board 's Port Melbourne Distribution Centre. 
The Victorian Egg Marketing Board 
C.L. JEFFERSON Secretary 
I raise this matter, which I understand has still to be settled by the Federal Court, because it demonstrates, I think graphically, one of the many problems faced by Australian Capital Territory producers. It relates to the role of the Territory on the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities and on the Australian Agricultural Council, the question of hen quotas, the Australian Capital Territory's contribution to the Poultry Industry Trust Fund and reimbursements from that Fund. 
I refer to the question of hen quotas because the hen levy scheme, and the hen quota arrangements constitute the two essential elements of the measures which are taken to ensure stability in the Australian egg industry. I have mentioned already that in the Australian Capital Territory the hen quota was set at 85,000 in 1972 and increased to 150,000 in 1975. But in August 1977, which I understand is the most recent occasion on which a request for increase has been made- although there may well have been a more recent request- the Minister for the Capital Territory sought an increase of 25,000 hens. That request was rejected completely, I understand, by every State represented on the Australian Agricultural Council. My understanding is that it was rejected because of excess production in the industry. In other words, the Australian Capital Territory, which requires more hens to meet the needs of consumers in the Territory, was refused an increase by the States because the States were producing a surplus. Yet Australian Capital Territory producers are contributing and will continue to contribute to a levy scheme which is used by those same surplus producing States to subsidise exports. 
That seems to me to illustrate once again the problems of the Territory because it is not properly represented on the Council of the Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia and because in the Australian Agricultural Council the States look after their own interests, showing scant respect for the needs and interests of an admittedly small but important industry in this Territory. That I think is another matter for some concern. There is no reason why this industry in the Territory cannot supply the needs of consumers here at the lowest average price in Australia unaffected by incursions from the States provided it does so under an orderly marketing system. It should not be affected by the refusal by the States to permit producers here to have the hen quotas that they require and to ensure that there is a reasonable reimbursement from levies provided by the Australian Capital Territory producers to the Poultry Industry Trust Fund. 
I take the opportunity in this second reading debate to raise those issues which are of importance to the producers in the Australian Capital Territory and which are important to consumers also. We have had for the most part a very effective egg production and poultry industry in the Territory. It has worked very effectively in the interests of consumers because prices here have been kept down. But there are a number of problems. There is the question of the reimbursement of levy payments. There is the question of surplus production by the States but not by the Territory. There is the question, as I have indicated, of the incursions to undercut at unfair prices, egg producers in the Australian Capital Territory. There is the question of the hen quota and there is the question of the proper representation, as I believe it ought to be, on the Council of the Egg Marketing Authorities for the Australian Capital Territory. 
I raise these matters so that they are brought directly to the attention of the Minister. 1 ask that the problems of producers and, indeed, of consumers in the Australian Capital Territory be considered carefully by the Government and that the future role of the Australian Capital Territory in CEMAA and other authorities which may affect this industry and others be considered by the Government so that the producers of this industry- and other industries, for that matterand consumers in the Australian Capital Territory are not disadvantaged because of what often are traditional attitudes to the Australian Capital Territory often, it seems, resulting simply from an oversight rather than any intention to discriminate against the Territory. It is these sorts of oversights- if that is what they are- that I ask the Minister and the Government to consider to ensure that the Capital Territory, particularly its poultry industry, is given what I think could be described as a fair go. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
What international conventions, treaties, agreements or other such arrangements have been implemented in whole or part in Australian law through Federal legislation since the Attorney-General provided a list in answer to Question on Notice No. 141 of 1977 (Senate  Hansard,  3 June 1977, pp. 2062-63). 
On 22 March I raised a question in the Senate during Question Time concerning preference for local industry in the Australian Capital Territory in tendering for contracts for Commonwealth Government goods and services. In the course of that question I asked the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster),  who is now in the chamber and who is the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, the following specific question: 
Will the Minister consider as a matter of urgency the introduction of a similar preference scheme in the Australian Capital Territory to protect and assist local firms in their work for the Commonwealth Government? 
In reply  Senator Webster,  as representative of the Minister for Capital Territory, said: 
. I understand, the Minister for the Capital Territory is prepared to look at the introduction of some scheme such as has been mentioned. I will again draw the matter to that Minister's attention. 
I understand that that has since been done. I draw this matter to the attention of the Senate because in recent times a situation has arisen in which a firm in the Australian Capital Territory, which was established by an individual who showed the incentive to establish a new business and who built it up over the course of five years, has been or in the near future will be almost wiped out by a decision to give a contract on what seems to be- it is difficult to judge because obviously the information available is not necessarily comprehensive- a very narrow difference in tender. I raise this question because on the basis of the information available to me the difference in the tenders was marginal or at least, to my mind, was not of great significance, particularly if the sort of schemes of preference available to local firms in the States applied in the Capital Territory. 
All six Australian States and the Northern Territory now give preference to local manufacturers- that is, manufacturers within that State or Territory- tendering for Government contracts to provide goods and services to that particular State or Territorial government. My understanding is that this generally takes the form of a 10 per cent preference margin on tenders. That was the figure, the Minister will recall, to which I referred in asking my question of him. 
The result of that is that tenders from local manufacturers in those States and Territories can be up to 10 per cent higher than tenders from interstate or overseas firms and still be successful. I understand that in some States an additional preference margin of 5 per cent is allowed to firms in country areas. None of these provisions apply in the Capital Territory. That results in part from the fact that there is no State government here. The only government which operates in the Territory is, of course, the Commonwealth Government. Therefore there is no particular benefit for companies, firms or businesses established in this Territory who may be tendering against interstate competition. 
I believe that within some States- this applied to New South Wales, Queensland and Western Australia- preference margins were allowed to firms located outside the major cities as part of programs in those States to encourage decentralisation. Those margins were originally in the vicinity of 5 per cent. This was a deliberate attempt by States to encourage industries established in decentralised areas to continue to operate and to provide them with some incentiveinitially presumably to start operations. These schemes were extended later to give preference margins on a Statewide basis in the various States. I understand this is relatively recent but before 1976 the four smaller States- Queensland, Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmaniahad preference schemes in operation. Since then similar schemes have been adopted by New South Wales, Victoria and the Northern Territory. 
The point of all this is that no such schemes yet apply in the Capital Territory; in other words, the only part of mainland Australia and Tasmania in which companies must operate under a tendering system which offers them no preference is the Capital Territory. To give a recent example, in New South Wales as recently as September 1976 a preference scheme was introduced to encourage local manufacturers and to lessen the effect at that time of unemployment in the State. One could well apply an appropriate analogy of that situation to the Capital Territory and suggest that such a preference scheme might benefit not only businesses and firms in the Capital Territory by providing them with an incentive to establish here and a margin on which they could continue to operate, but it might also assist in overcoming the unemployment problem. 
A situation to which I referred earlier, has developed here in the Territory, whereby an employer, who sought a contract and apparently missed out by a narrow margin, will have to reduce the number of people employed in that operation from, I understand, in the vicinity of 33 people to three people. It may well be that the company that has won the contract will be able to employ those people who have lost their jobs. The point is that someone who took the initiative to set up a business in the Capital Territory, who employed a large number of people and who had built up a business of considerable value over five years, has now lost that business in one fell swoop as a result of what seems to be, on the information available to me- I concede it is limited- a marginal decision. 
In August 1978 the Northern Territory, which became self-governing in July 1978, introduced a 5 per cent preference scheme for local businesses. But in the Capital Territory, the remaining mainland Territory, no such preference exists. No capacity exists on the part of any authority, representative or elected institution in this Territory to create such a preference. The only organisation, body, authority or institution that can do that is the Commonwealth Government. 
The preference schemes that have been introduced by States and more recently by the Northern Territory government are part of an overall program in those States to attract industry and to assist in the problem of unemployment which they face. Obviously these programs cover a much wider range of incentives and policies. They include tax concessions, financial assistance, the provision of factories and land, housing for employees and decentralisation incentives. I mention in passing that many of those incentives simply do not exist in the Capital Territory. Certainly there are other incentives here. I repeat, many of the incentives to attract industry to various centres and cities in the States do not exist in the Capital Territory. This contributes to some of the difficulties this Territory is having with respect to unemployment. The effectiveness of these sorts of programs in the States and the Northern Territory obviously is extraordinarily difficult to assess in any empirical sense but they have played a part in encouraging industries to choose locations which otherwise might not have been chosen. The States and the Northern Territory have provided incentives to ensure that those industries remain in the areas where they have been established so that those areas are not subsequently severely disadvantaged by dislocation. 1 again make the point that the sort of incentives to which I have referred and the preference incentives with respect to contracts are not available in the Capital Territory. As I have suggested already, the only authority that has the capacity to introduce any such preferences or incentives in this Territory is the Federal Government. We have no State government; we do not have selfgovernment such as that in the Northern Territory. The result is that these incentives and preferences have not been introduced here. We have seen a dramatic example in recent days of a local company, established by local initiative and prospering in the local scene, being severely and adversely affected by a decision to allow a marginally better competitor- as I understand it- to come into the Territory and take over. 
As I suggested in my question on 22 March, I believe that the Commonwealth Government, because of its unique and, in our Federal system, unusual role in the Federal Territory, has a responsibility to examine this matter because we do not have a government, State or local, with any executive powers that might introduce some scheme of preferences or incentives for our local companies and industries. This lack of incentive or preference obviously has an impact on local industries which now exist as well as on the capacity of other industries interested in establishing themselves in the Capital Territory. 
I appreciate the fact that the questions involved, such as the impact on the cost of contracts and so on, are matters of considerable complexity. They cannot be dealt with in an adjournment debate. Nevertheless, this matter, with all its complexities, is one for which I believe the Commonwealth Government has a very great responsibility. This is its Capital and it should give close attention to the matter. I therefore ask the Minister who is present in the chamber and who represents the Minister for the Capital Territory to look into this matter, following my question and the remarks I have made tonight, as a matter of urgency, to assess whether some scheme of incentives, and, more particularly, of preference with respect to local industries, can be provided in the Territory to protect industries that are here and to attract industries that may wish to set up establishments here. It is a matter of considerable importance and one to which I hope the Government will give its close and early attention. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to the 1976 report of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory concerning Canberra city wastes and to comments made by the Committee on the control and disposal of radioactive materials in the Capital Territory. I ask the Minister whether she recalls the following statement in that report: 
Well tried, internationally established regulations have been in force for many years in the States of the Commonwealth and in other countries. The Committee views the proposed Ordinance for the ACT as requiring the utmost priority and recommends that its enactment be proceeded with immediately. 
Can the Minister indicate when an ordinance dealing with the disposal of radioactive waste in the Australian Capital Territory will be ready and can she indicate what stage has been reached in its preparation? 
I direct a question to you,  Mr President.  It relates to a statement yesterday in the Senate by  Senator Gietzelt  in which he said that he had been told that Australian Security Intelligence Organisation agents are in fact operating in Parliament House and, even more significantly, that he had been told that members of Parliament are part time informants of ASIO. In view of the implications of that statement with respect to the suggestion that some members of this Parliament are in fact ASIO operatives and also, presumably, the implication that some members of parliament are in fact in the pay of ASIO for information provided to that Organisation, I ask - 
This is the proper time. 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I present a report on planning in the Australian Capital Territory- Procedures, Processes and Community Involvement, together with extracts from the minutes of proceedings of the Committee and the transcript of evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-The statement dealing with this report is necessarily a lengthy one and I will therefore seek leave to incorporate it. However, before doing so, I would like to make a few points. This matter was referred to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on 8 December 1 976 by the then Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Staley.  The inquiry has been interrupted by a general election, a number of changes in membership of the Committee and by the referendum on constitutional development in the Capital Territory. The Joint Committee has sought to give the matter detailed attention and this has also added to the time taken with the inquiry. This report is in many ways a follow-up report to that of the Senate Select Committee on the Development of Canberra in 1955. As a result of that inquiry, the National Capital Development Commission was established. This Joint Committee itself was created and the period of real growth in Canberra as a national capital began. 
The Committee, in its report, has referred to the importance of greater consistency in the policy of governments in relation to Canberra. For example, the report states that: 
In the Committee's view growth should henceforth be at a more uniform rate not subject to the sudden sharp rises and falls that have characterised the past . . . The impact of government policy on the ACT economy must also be acknowledged and policies devised to encourage a steady rate of growth and it is hoped that governments will respond to this challenge. 
The Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory has recommended significant adjustments to the planning process in the Capital Territory and to the role of the community in that process. It is proposed that there be a system of structure and development plans in the preparation of which the community will be closely involved from the early stages. However, the Committee has also recommended that planning and development control should remain centrally co-ordinated and that the unified and generally consistent approach to planning under a single statutory authority, that is, the National Capital Development Commission, should be retained. At the same time, the Committee believes that NCDC's planning authority should extend over the whole of the Capital Territory and not just to the plan of the layout of the city area. The Committee has also suggested that community councils be established as a continuing focus for community participation, both for citizens and for planners. The Committee sees a continuing role for the Joint Committee itself to be exercised at the request of the Minister for the Capital Territory or at the discretion of the Committee on matters affecting the national interest in the Capital Territory. The Committee has also suggested that the Commonwealth and the Government of New South Wales establish a regional advisory body for the south-east region of New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory and that this should be done within about the next five years. The Committee has also recommended a land use tribunal to hear appeals as to decisions of the relevant authorities on permits for proposed works and applications for changes in leases. The Joint Committee is firmly of the view that this should operate as informally as possible. 
The Joint Committee, in its report, has sought to draw on the lessons of the past and to make recommendations in a practical and reasonable manner to meet what we are able to foresee as the needs of the future. In many ways this has been a difficult inquiry. The Committee recognises that it has a particular responsibility to Australia's national capital and to the people who live here. But we also have a responsibility to this Parliament and to the people as a whole to whom Canberra and the Capital Territory are constantly developing as an important symbol of national pride and unity. We hope that this report will go a considerable way towards meeting these varying obligations.  Mr President,  I seek leave to incorporate the comprehensive statement on the Committee 's report. 
Leave granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 

The report I have just tabled is one which the Committee hopes will be of some significance in the history of the development of Canberra and the ACT. In 1955 the Senate Select Committee on the Development of Canberra presented a report which set out proposals for the future planning and building of the national capital and resulted in the creation of the National Capital Development Commission. That report also led to the appointment of the first Joint Committee of this Parliament on the ACT. At the time of that report Canberra was often, and with some justification, referred to as the 'bush capital', a distinctly Australian description and one carrying clearly derogatory connotations. The great depression and World War II had almost halted development in the capital and the bulk of the public service was still located in the State capitals. 
In 1955 Canberra was a large country town with a population of 33,000. It is now a unique city and national capital of about 220,000 inhabitants. The essential elements of Walter Burley Griffin's design for Canberra, still incomplete in 1955, are now established and the central offices of the public service have moved to Canberra with only a few exceptions. Most of the major problems to which the 1955 Senate Committee addressed itself have been dealt with, but the growth of Canberra and its impact on the surrounding region have led to new problems. 
The development and planning process in Canberra over the past two decades has generally met the needs of the national capital and seat of government functions. But in that time Canberra has become a large urban community with residential areas stretching well beyond the areas of direct national capital or seat of government significance. Some older areas of the city are in need of redevelopment and an 'infill' program has been suggested for some undeveloped land within established residential areas. There is a growing need for the citizens of Canberra to be able to contribute more directly and effectively to the planning of their city and to be able to appeal against planning decisions which they consider adversely affect them or to which they object for some other reason. 
It was because of changes such as these over the twenty years following the Senate Select Committee's Report that the Joint Committee on the ACT was asked on 8 December 1976, by the then Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Staley,  to consider and report on the adequacy and public acceptability of planning procedures and processes in the ACT including: 
the adequacy of community involvement in planning and development; 
the role of the National Parliament, particularly in planning the 'national 'element of Canberra; and 
the relationship between the various groups involved in this process. 
Commonwealth government policy has a direct impact on the ACT and this is frequently more immediate, and at times traumatic, than in other areas where local and State governments also operate. Commonwealth governments must therefore recognise a special responsibility in this respect to its citizens who happen to be residents in the nation 's capital city. Proposals made in this report will contribute to achieving a more even pattern of growth without the frequent disruption which changes in government policy have caused in the past. However, this depends ultimately on the will of governments and this must include the will to provide the citizens of the capital with a sound and coherent economic base on which local people can make decisions. As the report states: 
In the Committee's view growth should henceforth be at a more uniform rate not subject to the sudden sharp rises and falls that have characterised the past  . . The impact of government policy on the ACT economy must also be acknowledged and policies devised to encourage a steady rate of growth and it is hoped that governments will respond to this challenge. 
One of the immediate issues which the Committee had to consider was evidence of many breaches of lease purpose clauses in Canberra and an apparent reluctance on the part of the authorities to enforce these lease provisions. The lease agreement is the key control document for implementing town planning in the Territory. The Committee concluded that lease purpose clauses should be enforced and has recommended that substantial fines be imposed for breaches, with continued failure to comply leading to the termination of the lease. The Committee also feels that the procedure for applying to vary lease purpose clauses should be modified. Finally, there should be a right of appeal by both applicants and third parties against decisions made on section 10 and section 1 1  a  applications regarding lease purpose clauses. 
It is a cause for some concern that the Commonwealth is not at present subject to development control under the City Area Leases Ordinance. As landlord the Commonwealth can authorise incompatible uses or can with impunity engage in incompatible uses in premises it occupies. The Committee has therefore recommended that Government departments and instrumentalities be obliged to conform with statutory planning provisions and lease purpose clauses. 
On the question of public participation the Committee believes that the local community can have a greater role in planning and development without adversely affecting the national interest in Canberra as the capital and seat of government. There should be much more scope than at present for those affected individuals, groups, organisations and institutions to put forward their views on land use intentions and to participate from the earliest practical stage of the planning process. The community should have the oportunity to have a part in establishing the goals that subsequent planning policies are designed to achieve. The Committee has recommended that the three-year proposals and any firm long-term programs of NCDC should be tabled in the ACT House of Assembly so that the Government and its authorities can be better informed of local views on these programs. 
The Committee believes that planning and development control should remain centrally co-ordinated and that the unified and generally consistent approach to plannning under a single statutory authority should be retained. However, the planning system should be more accessible to the citizen. A system of Structure and Development planning for the ACT would ensure that policy is stated and accessible to all who are involved in or interested in the planning and development process and would ensure that members of the community have a role, if they wish, in that planning process. 
To facilitate participation in planning the Committee has therefore proposed a system of Structure and Development Plans, with statutory force, and has set out in its report the steps for the preparation of these Plans. The Structure Plan will be a series of statements of overall planning policy and will provide a framework within which detailed development proposals are to be formulated. It will not express detailed planning and development proposals- these will be contained in Development Plans. The Development Plans would be the official land-use plans for the ACT and would replace the existing plan of lay-out of the City of Canberra. The Committee has recommended that the National Capital Development Commission Act be amended to provide for a system of Structure and Development Plans with the Minister for the Capital Territory the final arbiter in the preparation of these Plans. The steps for the preparation of the Plans would ensure community participation from the earliest stages and would preserve the Parliament's role as guardian of national capital aspects and the Burley Griffin plan. 
The Committee has also proposed a Land Use Tribunal to hear appeals against decisions of the relevant authorities on permits for proposed works, and applications for lease purpose clause changes or permits to carry on a profession, trade or occupation on a residential lease. The Tribunal would have a number of members with expertise in relevant disciplines so that expert panels can be selected for particular appeals and should operate as informally as possible rather than in the manner of the adversary trial system. The Tribunal shoud not hear prosecutions for breach of lease purpose clauses which would be dealt with by the courts. 
2. As a result of its inquiry and following the recent referendum in the Territory on constitutional arrangements, the Committee believes there is a need for community organisations which can both represent the local community and act as a point of contact for planners and other Government agencies. The Committee nas therefore recommended that community councils be established on a voluntary basis. As well as having a role in the planning process these councils could give residents at the neighbourhood level as strong a voice and authority to adapt local services to local circumstances and wishes as is compatible with the claims of the wider community. 
The proposed planning system will require examination of the environmental impact of urban development at a much earlier stage and with a wider perspective than generally occurs at present under the impact of proposals legislation. The Committee has said that there should be memorandums of understanding between the Minister for the Capital Territory and the Minister for Science and the Environment to ensure that the system of Structure and Development Plans and the Environmental Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act work in a comprehensive and complementary manner. 
In its report the Committee has expressed the view that the Commonwealth Government and the Government of NSW should give immediate attention to the establishment of a regional advisory body for the South East Region of NSW and the ACT as recommended by the South East Region Steering Committee in 1976. The Committee further recommends that both Governments table in their respective Parliaments a statement on joint policy for the region, before the conclusion of the 32nd Commonwealth Parliament. 
There has been a Joint Committee on the ACT in each Parliament since the Committee was first appointed in 1957. The role of the Committee has evolved over this period with the growth and changing nature of Canberra itself. The Committee has at times worked as a quasi-appeal body, hearing objections to particular planning proposals because of our role in relation to the plan of the lay-out of the city and Burley Griffin 's concept for Canberra. It is not entirely appropriate that a committee representing the national interest and Parliament should become involved in disputes at the neighbourhood level simply because of the absence of any other mechanisms for the proper examination of grievances. The proposals in this report for the preparation of Plans, for an appeal tribunal and for community councils, should assist in meeting this shortcoming in the system of government and administration in the ACT. The Committee has also sought to suggest a realistic role for the House of Assembly, taking into account the recently expressed views of the people of the Territory. 
In 1976 the report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System recommended that some of the functions of the Joint Committee on the ACT, mainly in relation to the plan of lay-out, be transferred to a standing committee of the Senate which would also carry out some of the functions presently performed by the Public Works Committee. In the report I have tabled this Committee has proposed that the plan of lay-out be replaced by a set of Development plans and has set out the steps for the preparation of these plans. These include provisions for Parliament to examine and advise on plans where the national capital interest is involved. The Committee has proposed that it exercise, at its discretion, scrutiny on behalf of the Parliament. However, in reaching this decision I should point out that the Joint Committee has not addressed itself specifically to the proposal in the report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. Nevertheless, we have assumed the retention of a Joint Committee as representing all elements in the National Parliament in its involvement in the planning and development of the national capital city. 
It is also noted that in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances of March 1979 that Committee, when taking action on ACT ordinances which are considered to deal with matters more appropriate for Parliamentary enactment, intends to notify and seek a reaction from both the House of assembly and this Committee. This would add a new role for the Committee. This matter was not considered in the context of the report I have just tabled as the Senate Committee's report was tabled when this Committee 's report was with the printer. 
This report has taken two years and four months to complete. The matter was first referred to the Committee in December 1976. In the 30th Parliament the Committee received sixty three submissions and heard seventy one witnesses. Discussions were held with persons and organisations involved in planning in Darwin, Adelaide and AlburyWodonga. The Committee reported progress before the 30th Parliament was dissolved in November 1977. In the 3 1 st Parliament the matter was referred again to the Committee in April 1978. The Committee heard a further thirty three witnesses and visited Hobart, Melbourne, Penh, Brisbane and Sydney and consulted with people involved in planning in those cities. 
In November 1978 the Committee announced that it would await the result of the referendum on constitutional issues in the ACT before completing its report as the outcome might affect our report. We also wished to give further consideration to some aspects of our inquiry, particularly the means of public participation and procedures for appeals against planning decisions. Late in 1978 the Committee appointed two specialist advisers to assist in completing its deliberations. The Committee was csr.ctrr.ed that its report be as comprehensive as possible and that its recommendations take into account the future role of the House of Assembly while giving the people of the ACT an adequate say in the planning of their community. 
The Committee has experienced many changes to its membership during the inquiry with only 4 of the 10 members on the Committee at the time the matter was first referred remaining on the Committee which completed this report. In addition to the present members, the Committee has had 9 other members on the Committee at some time during the inquiry. All of these factors have contributed to this report's being so long in preparation. 
In preparing its proposals the Committee has tried to draw on the lessons of the past. At the same time we have necessarily had to try to formulate procedures that will overcome the difficulties that have emerged with Canberra's growth, the community's needs and the problems, aspirations, values and needs of the capital and the community in the future. We have not sought to be dogmatic, but rather to be as precise as we have felt each particular issue either permitted or required. The Committee has suggested adjustments to the existing planning system which we believe conserve its important strengths, remove or limit its shortcomings and make it more responsive to the needs and wishes of the community. The Committee has sought to propose a planning system which is both practical and responsive and which will accommodate future changes in community needs and wishes at the same time as it meets the inevitable demands of a national capital and growing urban complex. 
1 would like to thank all those who have contributed to this inquiry. First of all my fellow members of the Committee, the specialist advisers  Dr Alan  Fogg of the University of Queensland and  Mr Bob  Graham, the Hoban City Planner and all of those who gave evidence to the Committee at public hearings and in consultations. I would also like to thank Phil Bergin, Allan Kelly, Michele Purcell and Lyn Coutman of the Committee Secretariat and Don Nairn and Terry Watson who worked on the Secretariat for much of this inquiry. It has been a long and at times difficult inquiry. The Committee recognises its responsibility to the national capital and its community, but above all to this Parliament and the people of Australia as a whole for whom this city is growing in stature as a symbol of national pride and unity. We have had these matters always in mind in preparing this report. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Government giving or will it give consideration to the appointment of a special ambassador to the Association of South East Asian Nations in addition to our ambassadors and high commissioners appointed to individual member countries of that Association? 
-Has the Minister for Education seen the report in the  Canberra Times  today to the effect that Wanniassa High School and another new high school at Charnwood in the Australian Capital Territory will not open in 1980? Is that report accurate? If so, can the Minister provide further background information, particularly as to the action of the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority in this situation? 
-Has the Minister for Education seen a report in today's  Canberra Times  based on letters apparently made public by the Australian National University relating to the Government's proposed legislation on student fees? Is the reported statement by the Chancellor of the National University,  Sir John  Crawford, that there was no discussion or no explanation given to the University before a statute dealing with this matter was not approved by the Executive Council correct? 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I present a report on the proposals for variations to the plan of lay-out of the city of Canberra and its environs, 67th series, together with extracts from the minutes of proceedings of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a statement relating to the report. 
Leave granted. 
-This report, which is the third report of the Committee to be tabled during this period of sittings, deals with the 67th series of variations to the plan of lay-out of the national capital. There are thirteen proposed variations in this series and the Committee has approved of 10, approved parts of another two and suggested that another be regazetted. The total cost involved in these variations is about $lm. 
This series of variations caused considerable public interest concerning proposed roads in Yarralumla. The only submissions and objections received by the Committee on this series of proposed variations in fact related to developments in Yarralumla. During the inquiry some 20 witnesses representing 14 organisations appeared before the Committee at public hearings. One of the witnesses to appear before the Committee was the  Chairman  of" the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly's Committee on Lands, Planning and Environment. The report of that Committee on the proposed variations was incorporated in the transcript of evidence. The Committee intends to follow this procedure in future consideration of variations. 
The proposed variations involved many areas of Canberra. There were proposals for cycle paths in Phillip, Kaleen and Giralang which will be parts of the Canberra cycleway system. There are also improvements to the Pine Island recreation area. The present area has been subject to heavy use at peak periods and the proposals in this series of variations will provide picnic and other facilities as well as additional car parking. There are also variations aimed at improving road safety within the Australian Capital Territory. One proposal involves improving the road alignment of the intersection of Canberra Avenue, Manuka Circle and Captain Cook Crescent, which has been the site of a large number of accidents. Another involves the elimination of a dangerous curve at the intersection of Whyalla Street and Canberra Avenue in Fyshwick. All of these variations have been approved by the Committee. 
The main proposal for Yarralumla was for the construction of stage 1 of a tourist road which will eventually link the Cotter Road with Weston Park and roads along the southern shores of Lake Burley Griffin. The completion of stage 1 would provide access to the Old Canberra Brickworks which is now being redeveloped as a major tourist and historical centre. There was also a proposal for a link road to connect the tourist road to the existing residential street system. Yarralumla is a suburb which has been undergoing significant change. The population has been declining while the number of visitors travelling through residential streets has been increasing. With the redevelopment of the Brickworks the number of visitors will increase, particularly as a number of these visitors might continue on to visit Weston Park and other nearby recreational areas. To preserve the residential amenity of the suburb the Committee has recommended that the second stage of the tourist road be included in the next series of variations later this year. Such a recommendation is likely to affect a number of organisations, particularly the Royal Canberra Golf Club and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation's Division of Forest Research. 
The Committee recognises the importance of the Royal Canberra Golf Club as a local club and as a national and international sporting venue. The Committee has therefore suggested measures which could allow expansion of the Club into the Yarralumla Nursery and across Dunrossil Drive into the area known as Lee's Paddock. The Committee has supported the view of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly that if Lee's Paddock is to be given to the golf club other comparable agistment in the immediate area should be made available. The Committee has recommended that proposals on these matters, plus details of any problems likely to be encountered by the CSIRO be presented at the hearings on stage 2 of the tourist road. The Committee has also sought to protect the local residents from much of the tourist and visitor traffic by ensuring that such traffic goes around rather than through the residential streets. The tourist road, when completed, would provide direct access from Cotter Road to Weston Park on a route which avoids the residential part of Yarralumla. The Committee does not approve of the proposal for the link road at this time. Such a road would provide an easy opportunity for commuters to use the residential streets. The Committee considered proposals for a cul-de-sac as an alternative but considered that the Committee should be provided with a detailed road lay-out for the proposed residential development around the brickworks. 
In respect of the other variations, the Committee has recommended that Variation 12 be regazetted since there was a mistake in the gazettal notice. It has also recommended that Part 3 of Variation 8 dealing with the 'address frontage' for the Hellenic Club in Woden not be approved until the Committee is provided with more details on the proposal, particularly as to the necessity for the work. I commend the report to the Senate. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
In view of the oversupply of retail space in the Australian Capital Territory, I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory: What action is the Government taking or can it take to curtail the further release of retail space in the Territory? 
I address a question to the Minister for Education. I refer to my earlier question concerning the auditing of school enrolments in the Australian Capital Territory. Has this auditing process been completed? If so, can  the Minister indicate the results, particularly as they relate to staffing needs in schools? Can the Minister say what action is being taken on requests from some schools for additional assistance? Finally, can the Minister say whether such audits of school enrolments in the ACT will be carried out each year in the future? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Has any arrangement yet been reached with the Vietnamese authorities for the disposal of the Canberra property of the former South Vietnamese regime? Can the Minister say what stage has been reached in these negotiations? 
This evening I wish to raise the matter of Uganda, to which the attention of the world has been drawn in recent times. It is worth raising this matter in the Senate because of events in Uganda and because of the role that Australia might play in helping that country overcome its problems. It was in January 1971 that the Government of  President  Obote was overthrown in a military coup by the man who was to become  President  Amin. During the eight years that  President  Amin ruled Uganda it seemed that the country underwent what can only be described as a shattering decline and a terrible experience. It has been estimated by groups such as the International Commission of Jurists and Amnesty International that between 100,000 and 300,000 people were slaughtered during the time that he ruled Uganda. 
It is also well known that in 1972 President Amin took the unique international action- what can only be considered by everybody who was prepared to apply reason to such matters as an inhumane decision- to expel from his country 80,000 Asian people, primarily of Indian or subcontinental origin. Of course, that contributed substantially to the economic chaos which ensued in Uganda, because in many ways those people were the basis of the commercial class within Uganda. Following their expulsion- they went to many countries around the worldUganda began to suffer very serious economic decline. It is also well known that during the regime of President Amin many atrocities were committed in that country as a result of the activities of the so-called State Research Bureau which was set up by President Amin. There can be no question that that body was set up simply to use terror to keep President Amin in power. 
Debate interrupted. 
I would like an opportunity briefly to conclude the remarks I was making earlier about Uganda. 
It is not a subject of debate in the Senate at this time. There will be comments quite distinct from those I made earlier. 
I would like to make different points on the same subject. I would seek your advice on that matter,  Mr President.  However, it is not the subject of legislation or a motion before the Senate. I would seek your advice since you have raised the matter as to whether that is in order. I would not want to proceed if it is not in order. 
I would prefer to finish tonight. However, you have expressed concern,  Mr President.  I understand that if the matter is the subject of legislation or a motion before the Senate - 
In that case, I believe I would be outside the Standing Orders if I spoke. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. I preface it by referring to section 92 of the Constitution, which provides that commerce between the States of the Australian Federation 'shall be absolutely free,' and draw the Minister's attention to the fact that in section 92 no reference is made to Territories. I ask: Is the Minister aware that judges such as  Sir Owen  Dixon and  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell have drawn attention to the fact that section 92 of the Constitution is defective in not referring to Territories such as the Australian Capital Territory, and that this matter has been raised at the Constitutional Convention? Is he also aware that because of this the Australian Capital Territory has faced some problems with respect to the milk and egg industries, taxi services, and the sale of lottery tickets in that interstate lotteries operate in the Australian Capital Territory but the sale of Australian Capital Territory lottery tickets is banned in, for example, New South Wales? Does this not represent a serious anomaly in our constitutional arrangements and a source of discrimination, real and potential, against the Australian Capital Territory? Can the Minister say what action can be taken, and is being taken, by the Government to rectify the situation? 
When the debate was interrupted yesterday I was talking about the devastation suffered by Uganda during the eight years of the rule of former  President  Amin. In particular I referred to the activities of the State Research Bureau in their Nakasero headquarters in Kampala. Recently there have been many stories in the Press about the atrocities that occurred there. Perhaps it is worth recording that it is understood that there were 2,000 or 3,000 officers of the State Research Bureau who conducted their campaign of terror and suppression throughout Uganda during the term of office of Amin. Perhaps it is also worth recalling some of the events that occurred in the Namanve forest, which is just outside Kampala, where is has been reported that 6,000 or 7,000 people died in the course of former  President  Amin's rule and where  Mrs Dora  Bloch is believed to have been murdered as a result of the Israeli raid on Entebbe airport and presumably as an act of reprisal by the Amin regime. 
Tony Walker, an Australian journalist with the  Age  newspaper, visited Kampala recently. I will read a comment that he made about the State Research Bureau. He wrote: 
The SRB was nothing but an instrument of brutal oppression. 
I think those brief words sum up clearly the role of the State Research Bureau and its activities under former  President  Amin. It is worth recalling the suffering in some regions of Uganda during this time. It has been reported that entire villages were left without men aged between 20 and 50 years as a result of the reprisals in the Acholi and Lango regions and against the people in the north of Uganda. It has been reported that at one stage at least 200 men from that region were being killed each day by the Amin State Research Bureau and its various agents and supporters. It has also been reported that whenever there was a coup attempt or an alleged coup attempt in Uganda during the regime of Amin there would be murder squads or State Research Bureau squads dispatched to the Acholi and Lango regions to wage their campaign of terror and murder against the people who live there. One observer said that they were killing between 1 50 and 200 Langi and Acholi each day and 50 a day thereafter in one particular area of northern Uganda. I think those figures speak for themselves and show the scale of suppression and atrocities that occurred within Uganda under Amin. It is reported in the  Canberra Times  of 4 May 1979 as follows: 
The murder squad had included southern Sudanese, Rwandans, Nubians and some Palestinians. 
Most importantly I think at this stage, it is necessary presumably to put the past behind us and try to rebuild the shattered state of the economy as well as the society of Uganda.This raises a question of what we might do to assist that country. I again quote from an article by Tony Walker in the  Age: 
Uganda is a shattered country, both economically and spiritually. 
I believe that those few words probably summarise the situation precisely. Tony Walker made this point in that article in the  Age: 
Uganda has no foreign reserves and multiplying debts. 
This is placing an immense burden on the nation although some assistance is now being received. Tony Walker made the point that Uganda to some extent is fortunate- if that is the word to use in the circumstances- because it is agriculturally a relatively well-off country. 
The honourable senator refers to  Dr Milton  Obote. I am not sure why that did not occur. I agree that it is a fascinating question, but it seems that  Dr Obote  is to be left out of the government in the new Administration. I was referring to the relative richness of some parts of the country. Tony Walker, in the article to which I referred, wrote:  h is estimated that about 90 per cent of Uganda's 12 million people can and do live off the land. 
So the problems facing the country, to that small degree, are alleviated. Britain was the metropolitan power controlling Uganda for a period of, I think about 70 years dating back to the nineteenth century until Uganda became independent in the 1960s. Britain, has now announced that it will provide $2m, I understand, in direct assistance to Uganda. It is worth noting in that context that  President  Lule has estimated that the cost of rebuilding will be in the vicinity of $2 billion. The country faces major problems in rebuilding its infrastructure, in the provision of transport services and communications, in the distribution of food and in the maintenance of health services throughout the shattered country. Obviously it is difficult for someone in Australia- I have not visited Africa, Uganda in particular- to understand or appreciate the horror of what has occurred in Uganda. One report from the Melbourne  Age  dated 3 May 1979 perhaps reflects something of the situation. It states: 
Standing before the gaping doors of the looted Uganda Commercial Bank, prison warder  Valenario Ekol  said he had already found the bodies of two of his brothers. 
Since he came out of hiding with the arrival  of Tanzanians  he hud searched in vain for his wife and four children. 
I suppose we can reflect only on the terrible situation that that indicates for an individual. Perhaps we should also reflect on the number of people who must be facing that terrible personal loss and dislocation to their lives and wellbeing in Uganda. It is in that context that I believe we ought to be considering what Australia might do. Perhaps it is worth noting- it is my understanding- that  President  Lule has visited Australia on a couple of occasions and knows a number of people here. After his Government was sworn in on 13 April 1979 Australia was one of the first countries to recognise his Government. We have already provided some assistance in response to a request from the Commonwealth Secretariat in London. We have decided to send two Australian experts to Uganda- an expert in transport and an expert in agriculture- to join a Commonwealth team to assist in the rehabilitation and, in particular, to identify areas of priority for the implementation of programs throughout the country. 
Some discussions have taken place with the Ugandan authorities. I understand that the Australian High Commissioner from Kenya has visited Uganda. It is recognised that supplies of certain equipment are badly needed. These supplies can be sent to Uganda from Kenya. Australia is investigating how we might assist in this respect. Such assistance would be in addition to the training aid which Australia has given to Uganda and which has been continuous since 1961. 1 understand that there are at present ten Ugandan students in Australia. 
Having said that, I make the point that it does seem that we and others ought to be considering what more we can do to assist this shattered nation and to alleviate the suffering of so many people in Uganda. It seems to me an opportunity for Australia to take some initiative with respect to Africa, a continent with which we have limited links. On this occasion I believe we could take particular measures in Uganda because of the devastation in that country. It has been suggested, for example, that Australia might send young people as volunteers to assist in rehabilitation work, in rebuilding the country. That is something which the Overseas Service Bureau and the people who administer Australian Volunteers Abroad, for which the Government provides assistance, might look at in particular. There are already Australian volunteers active in parts of Africa, and AVA might be an organisation which could concentrate its attention a little more on Africa and particularly on Uganda in that country 's effort to rebuild. 
A further possibility, it seems to me, is the Commonwealth Heads of Government conference to be held at Lusaka in August. Commonwealth countries will meet at this conference, and we might hope that at that conference the Commonwealth, perhaps with Australia taking some lead in such efforts, will come up with some initiatives to assist in the rebuilding of a country which is geographically very near to those people who will be meeting in Lusaka, and that it might introduce or develop some measures to help in the rebuilding of Uganda. It does seem to be a project to which the Commonwealth is specially well suited. It is all the more appropriate as that body is meeting in Africa this year. 
I thought it useful at this time to bring to the notice of the Senate first of all the suffering that Uganda has faced, and to suggest some ways in which Australia might assist. But I think it is important also to indicate that we are conscious of the devastation which Uganda has faced, and the responsibility that we all have, to some degree, to ask what we might do, either individually or as a nation, to assist in the rebuilding of that nation. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether his attention has been drawn to a report in  Time  magazine of 1 4 May on the new government in Britain which states: 
Thatcher is so concerned over growing Soviet power that Tory strategists have considered the formation of a joint USEuropean fleet based on the island of Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean. 
Is the Government aware of any such proposal? If it is, has the Government responded in any way to it? What effect would such a proposal have on discussions between the Soviet Union and the United States for a reduction of naval forces in the Indian Ocean region? What stage has been reached in those negotiations? 
Is the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of recent reports that the Banaban people of Ocean Island, many of whom live on the island of Rambi in Fiji, wish to regain control of Ocean Island and intend to take direct action in an effort to achieve this end? Can the Minister indicate whether any disruption has occurred on Ocean Island? If so, what form has this taken? Can he say whether the Australian Government has taken any action with respect to these developments? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. On 4 June 1 976 the then Attorney-General in referring to the Ombudsman Act said: 
A Deputy Ombudsman is to be designated to act in relation to . . . the Australian Capital Territory . . . 
I asked about this matter in August last year and was informed that it was being examined. Is the Minister aware that recently Estimates Committee A found that the Capital Territory, primarily because it has no local or State government, has by far the highest relative rate of requests put to the Ombudsman as compared with the States? In view of this, can the Minister say whether action has now been taken to appoint a deputy ombudsman with specific responsibilities for the Capital Territory? 
I leave aside the empty rhetoric of  Senator Ryan  and prefer to address the substance of the matter before the Senate.  Senator Ryan  sugested that the action the Government has taken represents a dramatic change on the part of the Government. That of course, is not so. There has been no change. She seems to forget that by the most democratic procedure possible the future constitutional arrangements in this Territory were put to the people of the Territory last November. As she herself pointed out, the people indicated that they did not want selfgovernment and did not want an Assembly with executive powers. It is quite appropriate that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  should act in the interests of the expressed will of the people- that that Assembly should not exercise executive power. As  Senator Ryan  said, the people spoke quite decisively on this issue. Sixtythree per cent of them did not want the Assembly to exercise executive power. They decided quite clearly that the Assembly should be an advisory body. It is because of that decision that the Minister has acted to amend this ordinance. 
Under the ordinance the Assembly was to distribute funds to bodies, organisations and individuals for particular community projects. When the Legislative Assembly first decided that this money should be used for a major sporting and recreational complex, as I understand it, it was found to be invalid. Questions were raised as to the actual sums to be paid, as to the bodies, organisations or individuals to be paid and as to the community project or projects for which the money was to be used. That matter was not resolved before the Minister took action. I simply stres the point that the action taken by the Assembly to provide millions of dollars from the trust fund for a single purpose- an indoor sporting and recreation complex- was considered to be invalid. 
I pointed out that the people of this Territory have clearly expressed the view that the Assembly should not exercise executive powers. It is to me, and I think to most others who are involved, a mystery why the Assembly was given this power. In the House of Representatives yesterday-  Senator Ryan  said that she read the record of that debate- the then Minister did not clarify the matter. We can only presume that the granting of this power was included in the legislation when it was enacted because at that time it was expected that the Assembly might at some time in the future have executive powers. But, as I have said, the present Government put the question to the people of the Territory by the most democratic means possible and they rejected that proposal. As a result, the Assembly remains an advisory body. The provision in this ordinance was quite anomalous, setting aside the nature of the decision that the Assembly made and its validity or otherwise. The Minister has therefore acted to correct that anomaly, to ensure that the Assembly remains as the people of the Territory want it to remain- as an advisory body. 
As I understand it, there is now about $2m in the trust fund. The proposal which the Assembly originally adopted would have cost in the vicinity of $3m or more. It would have absorbed funds from this year, next year and probably future years. Many elements of cost were not taken into account in that decision. For that reason I believe that the decision by the Assembly was not only inappropriate, but also ill-considered. The Assembly subsequently proposed that some of these funds should go to welfare and other similar organisations. But it did that only in retrospect. Having realised because of community reaction that it made a mistake in the allocation of the funds, and being aware of action that might be taken, it decided that it ought to allocate them to community organisations.  Senator Ryan  has referred to some of the organisations in the Territory that require assistance. They do require assistance. It seems to me most appropriate that some of the money that citizens of this Territory put through poker machines and some of the profits from poker machines should go to welfare organisations in the Territory which are now in need and always will be in need in one way or another. There are always more services that organisations want to provide. 
As a result of a directive from the Minister the Assembly reconsidered the matter and readily came up with a list of organisations that could be assisted to the extent of $ 1 50,000. 1 think that the list speaks for itself. Included are St Vincent de Paul, the Salvation Army, the Smith Family, Red Cross, Jobless Action, the Indo-China Refugee Association, the Tuggeranong Community Service, Tuggeranong Family Action and the Woden Community Service. The list goes on. These organisations are in need of assistance. Subsequently the Legislative Assembly agreed to assist them from the fund.  Senator Ryan  made the point that these funds must go to the community. Of course they must. But we have to ask: To whom in the community should they go? What are the priorities? Surely the organisations which the Assembly has now seen fit to suggest ought to be assisted are the most appropriate organisations, given the very points that  Senator Ryan  made as to needs in the community. lt is also worth noting that  Mr Ellicott,  while speaking in the House of Representatives yesterday-  Senator Ryan  has no doubt read what he said- pointed out that he would like to draw all of these moneys together in a single fund to assist welfare and other community organisations in the Territory. A lot of funds are available from various avenues within the Territory- not just from poker machines but also, for example, from the Totalisator Agency Board- which might all be drawn together into a fund so that the priorities can be properly allocated. No doubt the Minister for the Capital Territory wants the advice of the House of Assembly, as the properly and democratically elected voice of the people in the Territory. 
These people have said that they wanted that body to be advisory and not to make executive decisions. The Assembly can and will advise the Minister, but the Minister is responsible given what the people of the Territory have said. He is also responsible to this Parliament. 

 Senator Ryan also suggested that the Minister, in amending the Ordinance in this way, is acting arbitrarily. As I have just pointed out, that is simply not the case. The Minister has a clear responsibility, a responsibility which was placed upon him by the people of this Territory. They made it clear that they wanted their locally elected representatives to advise the Minister and not to make executive decisions. That Minister is responsible to this Parliament. Given the result of the referendum, it is clear that there is no reason why what is now called the House of Assembly should have executive powers. It is clear that the people of the Territory do not wish it to have executive powers. It is an advisory body; the people of this Territory decided that in the most democratic way. The Minister has acted in accord with the wishes of the people of the Territory and in a way which I believe is appropriate to ensure that the funds available do not go to a project which will commit those funds for years but will go to groups in the community which are in need now and which will always be in need. There are always additional services that we would wish to provide to certain individuals and groups within the community. 
I conclude with one comment regarding the disallowance of ordinances. As 1 have pointed out on another occasion in the Senate, we have to ask ourselves about the role of the Senate and the Parliament.  Senator Ryan  might well ask herself that question. One wonders whether, every time the House of Assembly disagrees with the action of the Minister in regard to an ordinance, the Senate or the House of Representatives will be asked to disallow that ordinance. If that is to be the case the Senate and the House of Representatives will be preoccupied for long periods with matters relating directly to domestic affairs of the Capital Territory. Such matters should be left to the Minister to decide. The people of the Territory have clearly said that their Assembly should be an advisory body and that executive decisionmaking should be left to the Minister, with the Minister being responsible to this Parliament. We must ask to what extent the Parliament takes this process of disallowance of ordinances in the Australian Capital Territory. In this situation it is clear that the Minister, given his responsibility, has acted not only properly but also in accord with the wishes of the people of this Territory and with the wishes expressed so clearly in the referendum in 1978 and appropriately in terms of the powers of the House of Assembly. Therefore I oppose this motion for disallowance. 
I ask the Minister for Education a question concerning recent reports that the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority may be considering the closure of some schools and a college. In relation to those reports I ask: Is it not a fact that under section 38 of the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority Ordinance school boards have the function of making recommendations to the Schools Authority on all matters relating to their schools? Was there in fact no consultation with relevant boards on the reported consideration by the Authority of the closure of some schools and a college? 
Finally, since section 6 sub-section 3 of the ordinance states that 'The Authority shall perform its function in accordance with any direction given by the Minister', will the Minister direct the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority to consult all concerned before considering the closure of any schools or colleges in the Capital Territory and make it clear that no decision may be made until there has been thorough consultation with the community, and until demographic, economic, social and community factors have been properly considered and more adequate information has been provided? 
I have been given a petition for presentation to the Senate. However, it is not in a form appropriate for presentation at the time for the presentation of petitions. I would like to table the petition in the Senate so that the more than 7,000 signatories to it have their petition put to the Senate. I would simply like to explain very briefly what the petition is about. It protests about the possible closure of Watson High School in Canberra. It is signed by 7, 170 people. It was collected in the area around Watson, Hackett and Downer and it was signed by people who are concerned about this matter. I bring the petition to the notice of the Senate because the signatures were collected in the belief that the petition could be presented to this Senate. There is also a submission on the general question of the possible closure of schools and, of course, Watson High School in particular. The submission was prepared by the Watson High School Board and Parents and Citizens Association. In the circumstances, I seek leave to table the petition and to have the submission incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The submission read as follows- 

WATSON HIGH SCHOOL BOARD AND PARENTS AND CITIZENS ASSOCIATION SUBMISSION ON THE PROPOSED CLOSURE OF SCHOOLS 
In its Discussion Paper 'Secondary Schools in Canberra 1979-1985' the Schools Office purports to discuss three courses of possible action in the area of Canberra secondary education. These are: 
.  Continue to operate all existing schools and open new schools as required. 
Phase out some old schools as new schools are required. 
Changed approaches. 
It is obvious, however, that the Discussion Paper argues strongly for the second option. It is the purpose of this submission to challenge the arguments, assumptions and evidence of the Discussion Paper and to urge a consideration of arguments for the first and third options. 
Naturally the strong claim of Watson High School to continue to operate is paramount in the minds of its community and as representatives of that community we wish to register our strong disapproval of the lack of opportunity for School Board and community participation in preliminary decision making on the future of ACT secondary education. This is surely a contradiction of the very principles outlined in the ACT Schools Authority Ordinance for the operation of School Boards and the practice which has developed since 1974. We deplore the public naming of the threatened schools and the community's lack of both access to expert knowledge and time for detailed consideration. 
We are aware, however, of the dual constraints under which the Authority operates: the Government determination of staff ceilings for teachers and the Government directive of no real increase in operating costs per student. Indeed, it is in this context that the following arguments are presented- 
Demographic 
The case for closure of schools rests on projections of school enrolments from 1981 to 1985. These projections are, we believe, open to doubt and challenge. Each of the threatened schools has produced figures (from its feeder primary or secondary schools and making due wastage allowances) which differ significantly from those in the Discussion Paper. 

<graphic href="081232197906064_106_0.jpg"></graphic>

Furthermore, part of the problem facing the Schools Authority is the new college and high schools which arc completed but not opened. These were built on the basis of enrolment projections which have proved to be wrong. This illustrates the close interdependence of government policy and enrolment projections. It is surely prudent, therefore, for those making educational decisions not to commit themselves to potentially irreversible courses of action such as school closures on the basis of potentially reversible government policy. 
We are aware that the inner city areas of North and South Canberra are already in a situation of decline in school age population, (although the extent of this is challenged). The option to close schools in these areas is based on the argument that this will be a permanent decline. We contend that this is not so. It is confirmed within our community by greater kindergarten enrolment this year than last year. 
It has been asserted that the third post-war population bulge will begin to affect secondary schools in 1986. Figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics, released in April 1 979, reveal a 1 5 per cent increase in secondary school enrolments by 1988. 
Furthermore, the argument supposes that there will be no regeneration of the inner city areas. This has been argued in Schools Office documents. We request access to the data on which this assertion is based, since it is the impression of our community that its regeneration has already begun. Naturally enough, the process of regeneration will be significantly retarded if the community secondary school is closed. 
In addition, the argument for closure presupposes that the named schools cannot attract enrolments from other areas of the ACT. This is also incorrect. A later section of this submission describes those programs which are unique to Watson High School and which attract students from outside our feeder area. The submissions from the Boards and P &amp; C 's of Narrabundah College and Deakin High School also emphasise their ability to attract outside enrolments. A further factor will operate for Northside schools. The enrolment projections show a rapid increase to 1,080 students in 1 985 for Kaleen High School. This is greater than the operating capacity for this school without capital works, such as extra Science laboratories. Where will the 'overflow' be directed? We believe, along existing bus routes to Watson and Lyneham High Schools. Watson High already has enrolments from the Kaleen area of students who may wish to attend a traditional high school. We consider firstly, that this alternative will continue to be taken up in the Kaleen area throughout the 1980's, and secondly, that Lyneham High School alone would be unable to cope with both Watson High redistributed students and Kaleen High 'overflow' without very serious disruption to its unique programs. 
It is obvious, however, that no school will be able to attract enrolments, either from its own area or outside, with the threat of closure hanging over it. 
Economic 
The Schools Office is faced with a major problem. The economic constraint of no increase in the real cost per student has combined with the financial difficulties of opening new schools which are already built. This has happened within a context of very little ACT enrolment growth to 1985. The argued solution of the Schools Office is to close a number of established schools and re-distribute their pupils. We reject this solution as simplistic in the short term and wasteful in the long term. 
In the short term we believe that significant savings in the fixed operational costs (estimated at around $300,000) could be achieved by 
system wide streamlining of procedures such as maintenance spending; 
b ) schools with small enrolments reducing their operating costs by closing off part of their buildings or sharing their buildings with other institutions. 
We recognise that these are very much 'ad hoc' suggestions and therefore request access to financial data and costing procedures to thoroughly work through these suggestions. These and other short term measures may be sufficient to allow existing schools to continue and new schools to open until either enrolment growth occurs in 1 986 or government policy is modified. To solve a problem of short-term survival until this occurs, by closing schools, is financially wasteful in the long term. 
Firstly, students would have to be transported from their community to the school or college to which they have been re-allocated. The cost of subsidising these bussing costs will be substantial and will rise as regeneration and population growth occurs in the inner city areas. 
Secondly, the investment in furniture, equipment, textbooks, Library resources et cetera in existing schools which has been made by the Government and the community will be substantially lost. They will be either duplicated by the schools to which the community's students are re-allocated or be irrelevant to the programs of those schools. 
Thirdly, there are substantial costs in maintaining empty buildings when schools close. It appears that these costs will not be borne by the Schools Authority. Nonetheless, these unnecessary wasteful costs are most relevant to the total Government budgetary costing. 
Finally as community representatives, we wish to question the assumption that the community is neither willing nor able to bear an increase in contributions to maintain existing schools. Had the School Boards of the threatened schools been consulted in the preliminary decision-making process, detailed evidence of the extent of the community contribution would have been available. At it is, the extent of the community's concern and commitment to the retention of their schools have been made clear. 
Educational 
The Discussion Paper argues that, in addition to demographic and financial considerations, there are significant educational penalties for colleges and schools with reduced enrolments. 
The first of these 'penalties' is described in the area of choice of subjects. We believe that a small school can offer a viable curriculum with no significant reduction in the number of subjects offered. The only reduction would be in the number of combinations of subjects offered. Furthermore, retention of existing schools would allow retention of initiatives within subject areas which have been developed uniquely by those schools. An example of this is the Modern Greek program developed within the Modern Language subject grouping at Watson High School. These and similar programs are most unlikely to survive relocation. We affirm, therefore, that the proposal to close schools is in fact a contraction of the subject choice available to the students of the ACT. 
The second 'penalty' described is that small schools cannot provide enrichment, remedial or special programs on the same scale as larger schools. This is obviously true. We contend, however, that a small school can offer valuable enrichment, and special programs on a smaller scale which are appropriate to the needs of its community. We believe that these programs do not necessarily have to be 'bigger' to be better'. Furthermore Specialist remedial teachers are provided, not according to a school's size, but according to the numbers of students with recognised learning difficulties. 
A third 'penalty' is the impact on security and morale of teachers in schools with falling enrol ments. The example of a school losing 14 teachers over the next 5 years is described. This same school has already losi 1 4 teachers over the past 4 years without any loss of morale and security and it is surely ridiculous that the planned solution to this is the compulsory transfer of over 1 50 teachers from the schools proposed to be shut down. This will be a massive blow to the security and morale of all teachers in the ACT. In addition we believe, that far from there being significant educational penalties, there are positive educational advantages in smaller schools. 
English research has confirmed the paramount importance of the teacher-student relationship in achieving the school 's educational goals. It is clear that within a smaller school these relationships can be established more quickly and maintained more easily. This has been confirmed within the ACT experience. Narrabundah College has proved that a significant reason for its attraction to students outside its area is the warm and personal atmosphere of a smaller population. 
Furthermore, we believe that the greatest educational penalties will be incurred, not in maintaining, but in closing existing schools. The progress of students already enrolled in the named schools is threatened with disruption and discontinuity. Students will be relocated into schools with potentially imcompatible curriculum, subject choice combinations and organisation. The trauma of this will affect ali students, but particularly those with learning difficulties for whom almost all change is distressing. In addition, the carefully built up teacher-student relationships will bc destroyed. 
American experience of bussing a community's students to schools which the community does not support is most telling. Greater even than the blow to community cohesion, is the impact on the receiving school of a negative and possibly antagonistic student group. The initiatives of the receiving school and its interaction with its own community will be seriously threatened. 
Staffing Factors 
It is clear that the basic problem is not that the staff ceilings do not allow the Authority to provide special supplementary staff for small secondary schools, but that the staff ceilings may not allow the new schools to open. The small growth in ACT total secondary enrolment in 1 98 1 may not raise the staff ceilings sufficiently to staff minimum establishments at the already constructed Charnwood High School and Erindale Community College without the closure of existing schools and the release of their staffs. If this is the case, substantial costs will be incurred by the Government in maintaining empty new school buildings or empty old school buildings. We consider a more productive approach would be negotiations with the ACT Teachers Federation on what an acceptable minimum establishment could be in schools and colleges of low enrolments in order to avoid either indefinitely postponed openings or almost immediate closures. 
Community Impact 
The ACT has, since the beginning of its own separate system, striven to implement the recommendations of the Karmel and all subsequent Schools Commission Reports on devolution of authority to the school with community participation. Increasingly the value of this type of school is being recognised by the States. Clusters of this type of school within a community have made a significant contribution to the development of that community's cohesion. 
If the closures proceed the impact on all Canberra communities will be significant. Obviously it will be greatest in the communities affected. Real estate values will fall. A drop of $3000 for properties in the Watson/Downer/ Dickson area has been predicted. The opportunity of the population of inner-city areas to live within a mixture of age groupings is cut off once the community school disappears. The loss of some community recreational and sporting facilities is a real possibility. Local businesses may close. Furthermore, it should be considered that within a planned city there is a contractual agreement' between the Government and purchasers of leases that communities are provided with schools and other facilities necessary for living in that planned community. 
The effects of closure will not be confined to the immediate community. There will be significant effects on all communities. Involvement in School Board and P &amp; C Associations will diminish if the principle that the community decisions on their school can be overridden by a central authority. Community activities to improve community schools will vanish with the knowledge that resources, equipment et cetera purchased by parental fees and community efforts can be redirected to other schools without the community's consent. 
We submit that the model of a participatory system of community schools should not be dismantled and community spirit dissipated to cope with a short term centralised financial situation. 
I would like to take the limited time available to answer some of the criticisms of this legislation which have been made by the Opposition and by others outside this place. I want to respond immediately to some points made by  Senator Ryan.  She suggested that this legislation is part of an attack on the Public Service by the present Government based on the Government's ideological views. I would point out to  Senator Ryan  that Liberal governments built the PublicService in this country very substantially over more than two decades. The Government is firmly dedicated to building an efficient and effective Public Service, and recognises its essential role in the community. The sort of criticisms the honourable senator made are irrelevant, particularly to this legislation. I would also make the point that the honourable senator ought to look inside her own party ranks, at those who attack the Public Service consistently. I would ask her also to recall the Labor Government's proposals to transfer public servants away from Canberra, for example. If the honourable senator is interested in her constituents and mine, I suggest that she should recall the fact that the Labor Government was quite prepared to transfer people arbitrarily from this city to other growth centres, and not to take their views into account. I would also ask the honourable senator to recall the criticisms of the Public Service by many of her colleagues. It is not simply a matter of one party taking an ideological approach to the Public Service. I think the honourable senator ought at least to recall some of those events. As far as I am aware the Labor Party has not in any way retracted from its proposal to transfer people to regional growth centres, and presumably, should it ever regain Government benches, it will propose to do so again.  Senator Ryan  raised the question as to whether there was any action or any proposal by the Labor Government to introduce compulsory retirement. But of course as the honourable senator pointed out, there was no need for the Labor Government to do that because there were provisions in the Public Service Act for it. So the honourable senator accepts that principle, that there should be managementinitiated retirement. The Opposition accepts it, as  Mr Munro,  Federal Secretary of the ACOA, apparently accepts it. In a letter dated 24 April,  Mr Munro  wrote: 
The present provisions of the Public Service Act, Sections 20 and 67, provide a precise and legally enforceable mechanism for the efficient management of public sector employment and with the additions of adequate and equitable appeals provisions would accord with the framework which the Coombs Commission unanimously endorsed. 
Statements such as those clearly accept the principle of management-initiated retirement. Yet  Senator Ryan  and others, constantly attack the very concept of management-initiated retirement. 
Sitting  suspended  from 1 to 2.15  p.m. 

 -Mr President, before the suspension of the sitting I was discussing the inconsistent position which seems to have been adopted by many honourable senators in this debate, not least by speakers from the Opposition. I referred to a letter from the Secretary of ACOA in which it was clearly indicated that sections 20 and 67 of the existing Public Service Act are accepted. Of course, they provide for management initiated retirement. On 28 May I received a letter from the Federal Secretary of CAGEO that makes the point that at CAGEO 's biannual conference the membership 'unanimously rejected the concept of management initiated retirement'. Further on the letter referred to CAGEO 's total opposition to the very concept of management initiated retirement. 
On 24 April the Federal Secretary of ACOA suggested that with appeals provisions, sections 20 and 67 of the existing Public Service Act would be acceptable. That clearly indicates to me, as  Senator Ryan  put quite clearly, that the principle of management initiated retirement is accepted. If we look at section 20 of the existing 
Public Service Act we find that it makes very interesting reading. I quote: 
If at any time the Board -  that is the Public Service Board-  finds that a greater number of officers of a particular classification is employed in any Department or Branch of a Department than is necessary for the efficient working of that Department or Branch, any officer whom the Board finds is in excess may be transferred to such other office of equal classification and salary in the Service as the officer is competent to fill, and if no such office is available the officer may be transferred to an office of lower classification and salary but if no office is available for the officer the Board may retire him from the Service. 
There are no appeals under that legislation. It is quite draconian. Under that legislation there is no facility for an officer to appeal against a decision. Yet we find that the Federal Secretary of CAGEO says that management initiated retirement is not acceptable. On the other hand, we are told that section 20, with appeals procedures is acceptable.  Senator Ryan  indicated that the concept of section 20 is acceptable. I make those points because I believe it has to be understood that these provisions have existed for many years in Public Service legislation. But there have been no appeals procedures. The legislation before the Parliament tries to rectify those problems and provides appeals procedures. 
I would like to address myself to two further issues raised by  Senator Ryan.  The first is the suggestion that there can be no scrutiny by the Parliament of'other prescribed reasons' referred to in clause 7 of the legislation before the Senate. The point is that 'prescribed reasons' would be dealt with under regulations, which would then be subject to the provisions of the Acts Interpretation Act and, therefore, subject to the scrutiny of this Parliament.  Senator Hamer  has indicated that he will ensure that any such regulations are subject to the scrutiny of this Parliament. Under the Acts Interpretation Act such regulations are able to be scrutinised by this parliament and can be disallowed. I suggest that the statement that such regulations would not be subject to parliamentary scrutiny is quite clearly incorrect. 
I refer to another point made by  Senator Ryan  which I must say I found difficult to follow. She seemed to be saying that people who might be retired for reasons of invalidity would be disadvantaged under this legislation. That simply is not so. The legislation makes clear provision for invalidity retirement. People retired on grounds of invalidity would be subject to the full provisions of the Superannuation Act 1976. Therefore there is no change in that provision. I think that ought to be made clear because it seems to me characteristic of the campaign that has been waged against this legislation that people have exaggerated or distorted its potential effect in a way that I know has given great concern to many people. To suggest to people that they may be disadvantaged if they are retired on the grounds of invalidity, to my mind, is improper. 
I would like to refer to what  Senator Button  said when discussing this matter in the Senate yesterday. He referred to a letter dated 25 November 1977 from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in which the Prime Minister pointed out that it has been the Government's express policy to avoid retrenchment and that this will continue', to use the Prime Minister's words. What  Senator Button  did not point out is that that letter referred previously to the question of staff ceilings which had been raised by Public Service unions. That quotation has been used by Public Service unions in the campaign against this legislation. There is a clear distinction between the Government's undertaking not to retrench people in the effort to reach staff ceilings and the application of this legislation and of sections 20 and 67 of the Public Service Act. The Prime Minister has given a commitment, which has been maintained, that retrenchments will not be used simply to reach staff ceilings. As he said in that letter, this will continue. The retirement provisions of the Public Service Act and of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill are a quite different issue. The Prime Minister was not referring to either of those pieces of legislation.  Senator Button  would have done himself and the chamber more credit had he been more precise in using that quotation. I believe that in using it in an advertisement, ACOA might have done itself more credit had it referred to the broader context in which the statement was made. 

 Senator Button said also; and  Senator Ryan  reiterated- that this legislation would have a drastic effect on the concept of career service. Yet they and others consistently concede that provision for management initiated retirement has existed in the Public Service and that the principle has been accepted. Its application would have been so draconian, particularly in the absence of appeals procedures, that it has not been effective. The fact that it is there does not affect the concept of the career service in the Public Service because it has been an accepted principle in the Australian Public Service for many years. The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has pointed out that the concept of a Public Service with security of tenure for career officials has been subject always to the provisions in the Public Service Act relating to termination of employment of surplus officers, retirement on the grounds of invalidity, inefficiency or incompetence and dismissal on disciplinary grounds. This Bill does not affect the disciplinary provisions of the Public Service Act and modifies the other provisions, which in the past have been described as being too summary, by providing a range of appeal rights available to staff affected and by setting out more clearly the framework within which such decisions are taken. I quote the Minister's words: 
. if this Bill -  that is, the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill-  were the present law and the existing provisions of the Public Service Act -  particularly sections 20 and 67-  were being introduced in replacement- that is, the reversal of the present situation- the outcry from the present critics of this Bill would be deafening. 
I suggest that what the Minister says is precisely correct, that if the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill were in force now and we were trying to introduce provisions such as sections 20 and 67 of the Public Service Act and to take away appeal provisions that this Bill provides, there quite rightly would be an outcry. 

 Senator Button suggested, as I understood him; and it was not entirely easy at times to follow just what he was saying- that there would not be parliamentary scrutiny of 'any other prescribed reasons' referred to in clause 7 of the Bill. As I have pointed out, that is not the case; there is the opportunity for parliamentary scrutiny.  Senator Hamer  has illustrated well enough how that can be done in future. 

 Senator Button suggested also that this legislation totally ignores the recommendations of the Coombs report. I remind him that the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration- the Coombs royal commissionrecommended that voluntary retirement at the age of 55 years should be introduced. It made a number of other recommendations related to compulsory retirement and appeals provisions, which in many ways are given effect in this legislation. Every recommendation of that royal commission is not implemented in detail in this legislation. I am sure that not many people would expect that the recommendations of a royal commission on such a complex matter necessarily would be implemented in every detail. But the principles involved in many of the measures recommended are given effect in this legislation. 
I shall refer in particular to two requirements outlined in the amendment moved by the Opposition. The Opposition referred to the need for specific reasoning for termination of employment. Let us take a look at the legislation. I suggest that in fact the Bill before the Senate contains a number of provisions relating to employees being given reasons for action being taken under the legislation. Clause 10 of the Bill contains the following provisions: 
1 ) Where a redeployment declaration is made under section 9 in respect of an employee in a Department, the Permanent Head ofthe Department shall furnish copies of the declaration to the employee and to the Public Service Board. 
Clause 1 1 (7) states: 
A certificate under paragraph (6) (b) in respect of an employee shall state the reason for which the employee was declared to be eligible for redeployment. 
Clause 14 provides that the Public Service Board shall:   . . issue to the Permanent Head or prescribed Commonwealth authority concerned a certificate, in writing, certifying that it is satisfied that the employee should, for the reason so referred to, be retired from his employment. 
I stress that the employee shall 'for the reason so referred to, be retired from his employment'. Sub-clause (2) of that section states: 
Where the Public Service Board issues a certificate under sub-section ( 1 ) in respect of an employee, the Board shall furnish a copy ofthe certificate to the employee. 
A copy of that certificate is given directly to the person concerned. With respect to the Commonwealth Employees Redeployment and Retirement Appeals Tribunal, the role of which is outlined in clause 15 of the Bill, clause 10 provides that the Tribunal shall give reasons in writing for its decision on an appeal under section 15 of the Bill. I appreciate that concern might be felt about whether the information provided under the terms I have quoted is adequate. But it has been pointed out already that negotiations are to proceed and the matter of the provision of reasons for such decisions being taken is to be considered further. I simply emphasise that it is wrong to say that the Bill makes no provision for an explanation to be given to employees of what is happening and why. A reading of the Bill indicates that there are occasions on which reasons for redeployment or retirement in fact will be made known. 
I refer now to the second part of the amendment moved by the Opposition, which refers to the need for a comprehensive appeals system related to the termination of employment and redeployment. I only point out that under the terms of the Bill the Appeals Tribunal which will be set up will hear appeals against redeployment and retirement, should that become necessary. But I emphasise that under this legislation it will be essential that the authorities concerned try to redeploy employees before any decision on retirement is made. But should that decision be made, provision is made for appeal. The report of the Coombs royal commission referred to the need for appeals machinery. 
There has been a lot of criticism ofthe fact that some people may be joined to an appeal and subsequently may find themselves in the situation ofthe original appellants. 1 ask honourable senators to consider a similar situation. I agree that it is not a precisely parallel situation, but 1 think it is worth considering. This is something which seems to me to have been overlooked by Australian Labor Party spokesmen and by  Senator Mason  last night. In the Public Service, if someone is promoted, through the promotions appeal system it is open for a colleague, indeed for the promoted person's friends, to appeal against that promotion. An individual can lose his promotion to another person, who has said, in effect: 'I am a better person for the promotion'. I was a Public Service employee for many years and was then, and am now, a member of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association. 
I have been involved in promotions appeals. There are no inhibitions about promotions appeals. It can mean that one's friend loses a promotion because of one's appeal, or it can mean that one loses a promotion because of an appeal by a colleague. I simply ask honourable senators to look at the royal commission report and in particular at the principles applied in the promotions appeals system. I suggest that the provision in this Bill would be workable and therefore effective.  Mr Munro  himself suggested that sections 20 and 67 of the Public Service Act are appropriate if appeals machinery is provided. That appeals machinery must be effective appeals machinery. There is no point in a government's introducing what clearly would be unworkable appeals machinery. Obviously that would be absurd. 
I shall refer to just two other matters. The first is the statement made recently by the Returned Services League in Canberra that this Bill poses a threat to many of its members. A number of factors were involved in a statement made here in Canberra, I think last weekend, and in a resolution passed at a meeting the RSL held here. There was a suggestion that, as a new Act, this legislation would supersede previous Acts under which the Commonwealth employs its staff. That is not entirely correct. For example, this legislation will not change the Superannuation Act or the relevant repatriation legislation. It will, however, substitute new provisions for the existing provisions under sections 20 and 67 of the Public Service Act. 
It was suggested that under the Bill 's invalidity provisions an employee could receive a lower rate of superannuation pension. As I have indicated before, particularly in response to what  Senator Ryan  said, that simply is not the case. If someone is retired under this legislation, as under existing legislation, on the ground of invalidity, that person is eligible for full superannuation rights as set out in the Superannuation Act of 1976. That person is entitled to an invalid pension. There was a suggestion that there is a possibility that any war pension received may be deducted from another pension. Again, that is not the case. The Bill does not allow war pensions to be taken into account in determining superannuation pensions. So I suggest that the concerns held with respect to returned service personnel will not be affected by this legislation. It is wrong, and I believe it is irresponsible, to suggest to people that they will be severely disadvantaged when in fact that is not the case. 
I make one other point. I know that there are areas of concern about this legislation. Recently industrial action was taken in the Australian Capital Territory. Not a large proportion of public servants participated. But I recognise that many people who did not participate in the industrial action are concerned about some aspects of this legislation. For example, they are concerned about how the appeals procedures will work. I agree that that will have to be watched. If when those procedures are in operation it is clear that they do not work in a just fashion, I will be the first among those who will seek to have the procedures amended. Concern is expressed also about other aspects of appeals. I reiterate a point I have made before, that is, that the Government should consider the appointment of a Commonwealth employees' ombudsman so that there will be a clear source of final appeal and objective appeal for public servants who might disagree with decisions taken with respect to their positions within the Public Service. Such a measure was recommended by the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration in its 1976 report. 
In conclusion, I would simply say that not only are many of the arguments of the Opposition shot through with inconsistency- that applies also to the arguments put by the executives of some of the Public Service organisations- but also they have been irresponsible in the sense that they have clearly distorted the provisions of this legislation and in some respects have worried people unnecessarily. I refer, for example, to the statements made about the effect on people who may be retired on grounds of invalidity. I do not believe that that can be considered responsible. 
I would also suggest that the taking of industrial action while this Bill was being dealt with by the Parliament was inappropriate. Those of us who may have sought reconsideration at this stage of some measures have been placed in an impossible position by that industrial action. I hope that those responsible will understand the impact of their action. If there are faults in this legislation then, of course, it or aspects of it ought to be re-examined at any time, but, in the circumstances, I support the legislation. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to a recent statement by the  President  of the Australian Capital Territory Branch of the Returned Services League and a resolution passed at a meeting of that branch expressing concern with respect to some provisions of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Act as it relates to superannuation rights, invalid pensions and the possibility that any war compensation might be deducted from such pension rights. Can the Minister say whether the legislation will have any adverse effects on the quite proper entitlements of ex-service personnel and invalid pensioners? 
I refer to the situation facing Australian musicians and recording artists, many of whom are associated with or involved in an organisation known as the Australian Music Makers Association. I raise this issue because I believe that this industry should be recognised as a major industry with great potential. Those people involved in the industry have initiative and energy and can add a great deal to this nation's development. It should also be recognised, because of its importance to Australian cultural development, the arts and our national ethos. It also makes a significant contribution to the image of Australia in many other countries. It has to be emphasised that this industry is not seeking support because it is uncompetitive. Given a fair go, it has shown that it can be more than competitive even against the European and United States marketing machines which are involved in this sort of industry. 
My concern is a result of a prolonged delay by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal in deciding on an increased quota for Australian music broadcast by Australian radio stations. My fear is that that decision, if not made soon and in the interests of Australian performers, could deal a serious blow to this important industry. The many people involved in the industry produced a pamphlet last year in which it was pointed out that Australia has the second highest per capita spending on recorded music in the Western world, yet Australian musicians, artists and record makers have to struggle to survive. Many of these talented people have to leave Australia to gain the success that they deserve. As I understand it, 80 per cent of broadcasting time is given over to non-Australian products. This has stunted the growth of this already substantial, but potentially much more important, Australian industry. The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, in a report some time ago, indicated that from 1 May this year there should be an increase of from 20 per cent to 30 per cent in the time available for the transmission of music programs of Australian performances. The Government has indicated its support for this proposal. In relation to that, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a letter from the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  on the subject. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Minister for Home Affairs Parliament House Canberra, ACT 2600 26 March 1979 
My dear  Senator, 
I refer to your letter of 14 November 1978 about the playing of Australian music on Australian radio. 
I wrote to you on 4 January 1979 advising that a subcommittee of the Australia Council's Music Board would report to the Board in February on the problem of increasing the Australian content of radio music programs and examine the proposals put forward in the pamphlet 'Fair Play for Australian Music'. 
The Board has now met and I am advised that it has welcomed the Government's decision to introduce a 30 per cent quota for Australian music on Australian radio from 1 May 1979. On the specific points raised in the pamphlet, the Board sees no reason to alter its position on the Australian music content of radio programs stated in its submission to the IAC Enquiry into the Music Recording Industry in Australia in September 1977. 
In its submission, the Board endorsed the following principles: 
A points system should operate which is weighted in favour of Australian composition. 
Artists to whom the local content rule is applied should be either of Australian nationality or currently resident in Australia. 
The points system should favour the use of local content in peak listening times. 
While these principles are not totally in line with the proposals put forward in the 'Fair Play' pamphlet, they reflect the Music Board 's belief that the effective implementation of local content rules would play an important part in the development of an identifiable Australian culture and music. 
I have recently received a deputation from the Australian Music Makers Association and during the meeting with representatives of the Association I passed on the views of the Music Board and added my personal support to the introduction of the 30 per cent quota. 
Yours Sincerely, 
J. ELLICOTT 
Minister for Home Affairs 
I thank the Senate. This letter followed a question I asked in the Senate on 28 February. At that time I was informed that the Government had indicated its general endorsement of the Tribunal's proposal. However, no action has yet been taken to implement the Tribunal's recommendations. It is my understanding that now there may be some suggestion that the quota be increased to only 25 per cent, with an increase to 30 per cent next year. The Australian Music Makers Association has suggested- I support its view- that a 30 per cent quota for Australian performances should be introduced immediately, and this should be increased by annual increments to a total of 40 per cent. The Association has suggested that this be done over five years. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  has indicated that discussions on this matter are still being held. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a letter I have received from the Minister on this matter. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Minister for Post and Telecommunications Parliament House Canberra, ACT 2600 
Dear  Senator Knight, 
I refer to your personal representations of 1 7 April on behalf of the  Chairman  of the Australian Music-Makers' Association,  Mr Ron  Tudor, concerning requirements for the broadcasting of Australian music on radio. 
I have discussed with  Mr Bruce  Gyngell,  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, the matter you raise and he has informed me that the Tribunal is having discussions with the Federation of Australian Radio Broadcasters aimed at reaching an early decision.  Mr Gyngell  has stressed the importance of ensuring that the decision is capable of implementation given the various forms of music currently  being broadcast and the ability of producers to supply recorded music in these forms. 
I understand that the Tribunal will give the matter its undivided attention when the current public inquiries into the renewal of the three Melbourne television licences conclude in mid-June. 
Yours sincerely, A. A. STALEY 
I thank the Senate. There has been a substantial delay in this matter already and I believe it should be resolved as quickly as possible in the interests of Australian artists. I believe that the Broadcasting Tribunal should implement its own recommendation, which the Government has endorsed, and immediately introduce a quota of 30 per cent for performances by Australian artists. It is my view that the proposal of the Australian Music Makers Association for an increase to 40 per cent by the mid-1980s is a modest and a reasonable request which should also be endorsed. I reiterate that this is an industry which has great potential and which is not simply seeking protection to prop itself up; it is seeking a fair go so that the full benefit of the industry might be felt by the whole of Australia and not just those involved directly in the industry. Therefore, I believe that it is a matter of some urgency and that the Broadcasting Tribunal has a duty to act promptly. If it does not introduce the 30 per cent quota it could deal a serious blow to an industry with enormous potential, both within Australia and overseas. If it does so it would be only a proper recognition of that industry and the efforts of those involved in it. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory: What stage has been reached with arrangements to determine the boundaries of the lease for the Aboriginal people of Wreck Bay? Is any delay over this question affecting programs at Wreck Bay, particularly the construction program for houses for the Wreck Bay Housing Co.? Can the Minister indicate when this matter of such importance to the Aboriginal people of Wreck Bay will be finalised? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service matters. Has an ombudsman style body in the form of a grievances and appeals bureau been established within the Public Service Board, or is action under way to create such a body? What is or will be the role of this bureau in dealing with the grievances of public servants? To what extent will such a body meet the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration as to the appointment of a Public Service ombudsman? 
In pursuit of the bipartisan spirit which is reflected in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I agree with the thrust of what  Senator Sibraa  has said. I take up where he left off by saying that I think it is important that the Government, in accordance with the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of 26 May 1 978, should respond within a 6-month period to reports such as this. I know from the discussion today on the report of the Senate Standing Orders Committee that you,  Mr President,  are keeping an eye on the matter of responses by governments to parliamentary reports. I hope that partly through your vigilance we can be sure that replies will be prompt- perhaps more prompt than they have been thus far in some cases. I have expressed the hope that we might soon have a detailed reply from the Government and from the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  to this report. 
I believe the issues raised in it are of importance not just to the Department of Foreign Affairs- not just to one department of State in this Commonwealth- but to the Commonwealth of Australia. While there are more than 20 departments covering the gamut of domestic issues that face us all in this country, there is only one department that must deal with the massive range and complexity of international issues that now confront Australia, as they confront every country. It is essential that one department be clearly recognised as the one which will deal with those issues and co-ordinate the national response to them. Within our administrative arrangements order, that department effectively ought to be the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
I was having lunch in the United States earlier this year with a former Secretary of State. He said that he had not written his memoirs because he did not have much respect for those 'kiss and tell' public servants who served an administration at very senior levels and then went off to write their memoirs, presumably to gain some personal satisfaction and profit of some kind. Whilst I might agree personally with that view I must say that I do not see why a public servant ought not to take the opposite view and do as  Mr Renouf  has done if he feels that is his right. There is no legal reason or other constraint of which I am aware that suggests that it ought not be his right. He ought to be able to do so, as  Mr Renouf  has done. Of course, there are traditions and certain conventions that may be invoked to suggest that a senior public servant who has retired and written his memoirs, and is particularly very critical of some of his former colleagues, is perhaps in the wrong in some respects. I disagree with that. I think senior public servants in this country and other countries ought to be able to express their views about those with whom they were associated and about the policies on which they worked once they have removed themselves from the context of their responsibilities. It must be left to their good taste, judgment, discretion and sensitivity to decide what they reveal and comment upon. 
For that reason I do not question what  Mr Renouf  has done. In many respects I believe that he has done a service to the country and the Department of Foreign Affairs. However, I question many of his judgments. For example, I agree that the Department of Foreign Affairs is in a state of crisis. I believe that it ought to be more widely recognised that the Department is in a state of crisis and the significance of that fact to this country. In many ways perhaps it will be more widely recognised or acknowledged that the Department of Foreign Affairs in recent years has done a remarkable job despite the limitations that have been imposed upon it by governments. I must say that there is one point related to this matter on which I would disagree with  Mr Renouf.  It was a matter which the Committee examined in some detail. He suggests that the Department of Foreign Affairs ought to be separated from the Public Service per se and ought to operate under its own Act. This is a view which I have shared in the past, which I now share less enthusiastically with  Mr Renouf  and about which I must say I have some doubt, although in general, if I were forced to say one way or the other, I would say that I think it ought not to be separated from the Public Service in general. 
I think the basis of that sort of judgment on  Mr Renoufs  part refers to an assumption that was shared clearly by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, that is, that the Department of Foreign Affairs must have authority to co-ordinate all aspects of Australia's external policy and must be adequately equipped to do that. I simply draw the attention of the Senate to page 33 of the Committee's report entitled 'Australian Representation Overseas- the Department of Foreign Affairs' in which it points out that the Department's task is to provide the effective machinery which co-ordinates the diversity of Australia's international interests and enables those interests to be voiced overseas in a coherent manner. I would venture to suggest that that brief sentence is in fact a fairly good definition of the role of the Department of Foreign Affairs. The critical aspect of it is that the Department must have the capacity effectively to co-ordinate those policies. Those policies are likely to become increasing incoherent if its capacity to do so is weakened and if responsibility for them is dispersed over a range of Commonwealth departments and agencies. The Committee stated further:  lt is emphasised, however, that the primacy of the Department of Foreign Affairs in most external issues should be recognised and asserted in the interdepartmental process. 
It seemed to the Committee that in the process of the interdepartmental committee, which so often is used to co-ordinate policy, the significance of the role of the Department of Foreign Affairs is not recognised sufficiently often. 
I refer a little further to what  Mr Renouf  has to say, because I think it is important. I have said already that I do not agree entirely with all his judgments. I will mention at least one or two of them on which I differ somewhat. I quote from an extract from his book which appeared in the  Canberra Times  on Saturday, 1 8 August last. He stated: 
Since the end of 197S the department has been reduced in authority and influence to that of a minor organ of State whereas from 1972-75 it had become for the first time a major organ. 
I disagree with that judgment. I have mentioned the bipartisan nature of this report and I do not want to inject political elements into the debate, but it ought to be remembered- and I make this point because I served in the Department of Foregin Affairs at this time- that during the latter days of the Labor Government and well before the end of 1975, when  Senator Willesee  was the Minister for Foreign Affairs and there was a Prime Minister who was an active participant in foreign policy matters, the Department of Foreign Affairs was being reduced in its capacity to control and co-ordinate Australia's foreign policy. I say that because I think it is an important qualification o f what  Mr Renouf  says. I think it is reflected in many matters. One could refer to the question of the Baltic States on which certain people have recorded their views since. 
It is not simply since the end of 1975 that this has occurred. The Department of Foreign Affairs has had this problem for many years, probably since its inception, except for rare periods. It is not a problem that has suddenly occurred since December 1972, as  Mr Renouf  suggests. I comment also on what he says further on in his extract where he stated: 
The simplest way for a country to conduct its foreign relations is to give primary responsiblity to one organ of State . . . 
I comment only on the use of the words 'the simplest way'. I do not think that it is the simplest way. To give the co-ordinating authority to one department to run the entirety of our external relationships is probably the most difficult way to do it. The Committee has said that it ought to be done despite the fact that it is not easy and despite the fact that experience shows that it does not usually happen. What we have said is that it ought to happen despite those complexities.  Mr Renouf  suggests that it is the simplest way. While it may be a semantic point, I differ with him on it. I feel that it does not really express adequately the significance and complexities of that role. 
I refer to  Mr Renoufs  next point because in our report we dealt at some length with the questions of career structures within the Department of Foreign Affairs, staff morale within the Department and so on. He refers to his taking over as Secretary to the Department, a job that he did with considerable distinction and flair. I quote again from the same article.  Mr Renouf  said: 
. I appealed to its officers to think about policy and to produce ideas. Two years later the department had produced only one idea. 
I think that that is a gross insult to the hundreds of officers of the Department with whom  Mr Renouf  served with such distinction. If the Secretary to the Department in two years could not get more than one policy idea out of the Department, I think that that reflects on him as much as on anybody else. Apart from that, I believe that it is utter nonsense. 
I am not sure what he meant. It may be that this extract is truncated and that he went on to explain the difficulties and so on. In this extract he does not explain what the one idea was, what he means by an idea, how complex an idea is, whether it is a simple matter or whether it was a whole concept of a new policy direction. That is not contained in this extract. Perhaps it is in the book and perhaps I am being unfair, but the extract does not seem to be truncated too much. If it is not, I suggest that that is a terrible insult for a man to deliver against his very recent colleagues. I would suggest that it perhaps reflects as much on the person making the comment as it does on those to whom it was directed. 

 Mr Renouf goes on to talk about a pattern of intellectual atrophy in the Department. I make this point only because the Committee on which I served recognised the difficulties of morale within the Department, the difficulties faced by people in a career service where promotion may not be as fast as it is in other areas and the difficulties which may develop because of staff structures in the recent past and of recruitment policies. Again I think that that statement is a gross insult to some of the most distinguished public servants in the Australian Public Service, because the Department of Foreign Affairs does have such people in its ranks. Although he does not suggest that it applies to everyone, it seems to apply to most people in the Department and particularly to those who are, as he says, 45 years of age or more. 
He goes on to make comments about people who, having reached the office of ambassador, become passengers in the Department. There may be a few, but there are not many.  Senator Sibraa  referred a moment ago to a recent visit to Africa in which we were involved. The heads of missions whom we met there were not people suffering from intellectual atrophy. They were not people who were spending their time savouring the fruits of office and the tributes that go with it. They were people who were working terribly hard in very difficult circumstances and who were being well served by equally dedicated public servants from Australia working hard to represent this country. While  Mr Renouf  may well be expressing a view that applies to a few, it seems to me to be a pity, if this admittedly truncated report gives an accurate reflection of what he says in his book, that it reflects badly on so many people who work so hard on behalf of this country. 
In saying that I suggest that the questions raised in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the matters of recruitment, career structures and morale within the Department offer a rather more serious and genuine comment and adopt a rather more constructive approach to those issues and perhaps are more constructive on how those problems might be overcome. Once again, I make the point that those references are taken from an extract from  Mr Renoufs  book and must be seen in that light. I concede that I might be less than fair to him in using that extract, but I have not had the advantage of seeing the book at this stage. 
Another point that  Mr Renouf  makes is that the Trade Commissioner Service which operates under its own Act ought to be abolished. On the other hand, he says that the Department of Foreign Affairs should have its own Act because it would be better operating separately from the rest of the Public Service. I differ in that view because essentially I think that the Trade Commissioner Service operates highly efficiently.  Mr Renouf  did state in this respect: 
If Australia's exporters want to sell their products abroad, they will do so without much help. 
I can only say, in the kindliest possible fashion, that that is utter nonsense. Having served in Saudi Arabia, I know that had we not had Trade representatives as well as Foreign Affairs representatives there we would not have been doing much, if any, trade, because the difficulties involved in trading in that area are so great. But with the Trade Commissioner Service and the Department of Trade and Resources represented there through a trade commissioner and with other Australian representatives from the Department of Foreign Affairs, the way was facilitated, but it was not easy even then. Without them it would have been well nigh impossible. I suggest that that statement by  Mr Renouf  is terribly simplistic. It seems to me, firstly, to contradict the concept of a separate foreign service and, secondly, from my experience, to represent a grave misjudgment. 
Having said that, I want to refer to one or two other matters. The first is the matter of maintenance, to which  Senator Sibraa  referred. Sometimes it is difficult to express the importance of maintaining our overseas properties in relation to the wellbeing, morale and effectiveness in their work of Australian staff overseas. But it is critical. I think that any member of this Parliament who has travelled and has seen the conditions under which some of our foreign service personnel work will agree that those conditions are not always up to scratch, to use an Australian term. 
In the report the Senate Committee has suggested that the Government should allocate a realistic amount of funds for the upkeep of existing properties, furniture and fittings. 'Realistic' in that context must be seen to mean simply an amount of money which provides for basic maintenance so that a few years hence we do not have either to pay five times as much to replace the building or furniture or simply to pay a great deal more for maintenance work. That is simply  good economic sense. The recent parliamentary delegation to Africa saw some examples which indicated that there is a very substantial need for funds to be provided for basic maintenance, first of all so that those people representing Australia in very difficult conditions can live in circumstances which can be considered reasonable but, secondly, so that those people can be more effective in their role and their morale maintained. 
The only other point I want to make relates to the consular service. Again,  Senator Sibraa  referred to that matter. It is an area to which we will have to pay increasing attention. Last year the Minister made a statement on Australian consular services. Later this year we will debate in this Senate the new passport legislation. All that is part of the recognition that we must update our consular services because more and more Australians are travelling overseas and more and more people are coming to Australia. It is an area in which the Department of Foreign Affairs, which is the Department responsible for the administration of Australian consular services around the world, will need increasing support. Above all, I believe- this is a matter to which the Minister referred and on which the Senate Committee made recommendations- we must have a consular career service so that people who work in that area have a proper career structure, positions to aspire to, and so that the consular service is given its proper recognition within the administrative structure of the Department of Foreign Affairs. Finally, as I do not think this has been done already, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the recommendations of the Senate Committee so that they will appear in the  Hansard  record in the context of this debate. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Staff ceilings 
If a further reduction of the staff ceiling of the Department of Foreign Affairs is considered necessary by the Government, the Committee recommends that the reasons be fully investigated and justified in full consultation with the Department beforehand, rather than handed down for implementation. 
The Committee has received no evidence which suggest that the Department's staff numbers should be further reduced. On the contrary, the Committee is satisfied, on the basis of preceding comments and details referred to later in this report, that there is a need for modest expansion, and recommends that this be provided for, commensurate with Australia's increasing activities and responsibilities internationally. 
Classification of ADAB positions overseas 
The Committee is not satisfied with the imposition of the inflexible policy that a Foreign Affairs position overseas may not be reclassified to an ADAB position unless 100 per cent of the duties are development assistance matters. The Committee recommends that urgent attention be given to changing the rules to allow specialist ADAB officers to fill positions overseas where development assistance duties predominate. Due recognition must be given to the importance of the function and not the application of a rule. 
Pooling of ADAB positions overseas 
The Committee recommends that a pooling facility for ADAB positions overseas should be introduced to allow flexibility as priorities and programs change. 
ADAB staff resources 
The Committee recommends that the staff requirements of the Bureau be given the support they require to fulfill their functional responsibilities effectively. It also recommends that the Bureau's staff resources overseas be increased to meet the demands of the program and that these resources have the flexibility to be deployed where they are most needed. 
Recruitment of Foreign Affairs Officers 
The Committee recommends that the Department should be permitted to maintain a continuous annual recruitment program commensurate with foreseeable requirements in the Foreign Affairs Officer category. 
Consular training 
The predicted growth in the number of Australians travelling abroad will produce greater demands for consular services, consequently the Committee recommends that the Department should give a high priority to developing consular training courses and to training officers to improve its capability to meet forecast demands. 
ADAB training 
The Committee recommends that the Department should examine a program of secondments to international organisations as a valuable means of providing training and developing expertise among ADAB officers involved with the management of the Australian development assistance program. 
Consular and administrative careers 
The Committee recommends that a very high priority be given to a thorough review of consular and administrative careers with the aim of developing a career structure for officers performing varied, responsible and essential services. 
Conditions of service 
The Committee recommends that the following aspects relating to conditions of overseas service should be investigated: 
The introduction of a 'pool 'of representation funds, for dispersal at the discretion of Heads of Missions, to officers who are required to incur official representation expenses but are not in receipt of representation allowances. 
The disadvantages suffered by Australia-based staff not entitled to duty-free privileges, and the need for compensatory measures. 
The introduction of longer postings at selected posts for appropriate officers and home leave entitlements under those circumstances. 
Improved storage standards for the personal effects left in Australia by officers posted overseas. Existing arrangements are being reviewed and strict standards and guidelines should be stipulated for storage contractors and these should be completed as a matter of priority. 
Overseas property mangement 
The Committee recommends that the Government should: 
Initiate an immediate review of overseas property management; 
Allocate realistic funds for the upkeep of existing properties, furniture and fittings; and. 
Investigate the merits of purchasing or constructing premises in countries where predictable market trends warrant the investment. 
1. Overseas Operations Branch 
The Committee recommends that the functions of the Overseas Operations Branch be retained in a form which permits the Branch to deal exclusively with overseas property matters and that the officers concerned should not have their duties divided between Australia and overseas property functions as the problems involved are quite distinct. 
The Committee also recommends: 
That the Overseas Operations Branch should be removed from its present departmental and ministerial attachment and become a Branch of the Department of Foreign Affairs; and 
That any consequent reorganisation should ensure that specialist and corporate expertise of the officers of the Branch is retained to deal exclusively with the policy, programs and administration of Australian property overseas. 
Security 
The Committee recommends that urgent action be taken by the Government, the Department of Foreign Affairs and the relevant regulatory authorities which will ensure that: 
Adequate funds are available for effective security at overseas posts: 
Staff ceilings do not inhibit the capability of the Diplomatic Security Section of the Department of Foreign Affairs to perform its duties: 
A separate travel provision is available to permit the Section's staff to undertake visits overseas for security measures: 
Regulatory authorities are fully briefed and made aware of the importance of recognising security threats and the need to plan against possible threats; and 
Appropriate authority is delegated to officers overseas to enable immediate action to bc initiated when special circumstances arise. 
ADAB travel overseas 
The Committee recommends that the Department of Foreign Affairs re-examine travel needs to determine a realistic allocation of overseas visits for Bureau staff. To enable the Bureau to plan project management and allow for contingency travel an allocation for these purposes should be specified at the beginning of each planning year. 
ADAB accommodation in Canberra 
A very unsatisfactory situation exists where some 3 10 ADAB staff in Canberra are located in five separate buildings. The Committee recommends that this matter be kept under review with the aim of remedying the situation as soon as possible. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister and I refer to the Prime Minister's statement of 27 June on energy policy. Does the Minister recall the statement that the Government would upgrade the Bureau of Mineral Resources into a geoscientific research organisation with a substantial capacity to conduct the sophisticated scientific studies required to support the development of Australia 's resources and that the Bureau would have an enhanced role in the exploration for and assessment of Australian energy resources? What has been done to implement this decision? In particular, how will the BMR's role in the exploration for and assessment of our energy resources be enhanced? Will additional staff and finance be available to meet the Bureau's new and proper role? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, although it also involves the portfolio of the Minister for Social Security. How many handicapped people are now seeking employment in the Australian Capital Territory through the Commonwealth Employment Service? What special facilities are made available to assist these people overcome the difficulties, including prejudice, that face handicapped people in seeking employment? 
I direct to the AttorneyGeneral a question concerning a report by the Australian Law Reform Commission suggesting that a model prison should be established in the Australian Capital Territory to give a lead to the States in prison reform. Can the Minister indicate what consideration has been given to that proposal and whether at the moment there is any proposal to establish a model prison, or a prison of any kind, in the Australian Capital Territory? 
I simply wish to say that this report from the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory in many respects was a follow-up to the very significant report in the mid-1950s by a Senate select committee on the future of Canberra, as a result of which the Joint Committee was established to oversee the planning and development of Canberra as the national capital and the National Capital Development Commission was established as the planning and development body for this city. The report contains a number of significant recommendations which, in many respects, build on the recommendations of the earlier report to which I have referred, taking into account developments since that time and the many significant changes in the nature of this city and of the Capital Territory as a whole. 
The report was tabled in April and, as a result of the statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 26 May 1978, Ministers are required to respond to parliamentary committee reports within six months. In the case of this report that period will expire in October. The Joint Committee hopes that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  in particular, but also other Ministers who have responsibilities bearing on the various recommendations made in the report, will be able to respond by October, or shortly thereafter, to the numerous recommendations made with respect to the planning of this city and the Territory, its administration and, in particular, the question of public participation. 
As we hope that the Minister for the Capital Territory and the other Ministers involved will be able to make the Government's views known to the Parliament shortly, I do not think that there is a need to say a great deal more about the report at this point. I have no doubt that the recommendations generally are well known to the members of this Parliament. All members of the Committee are looking forward to the response from the Government. We believe that if the Government is receptive to the thrust of the recommendations of the report and to many of the details, though perhaps not all, this will lead to an effective planning and development process in the Australian Capital Territory in accordance with the issues and problems that the Territory and the city of Canberra, as the national capital, now face. 
In particular, as I mentioned earlier, we feel that there is an increasing need in this city for the community to have a greater say in planning and development. There are limited opportunities here as a result of the lack of local executive government or a State form of government. We have made a number of recommendations including what we believe are significantly innovative suggestions for the establishment of community councils similar to some which have been established elsewhere in the world. As Chairman of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I leave the matter at that at this stage in view of the fact that the Committee is looking forward to the Government's response in the near future to its many recommendations on planning in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I should like to add briefly to what  Senator Jessop  has said. I think it is worth reiterating that the sorts of organisations, sects and cults to which he referred are not a new phenomenon. They have been with our society and others for many centuries. But that aside, they do pose a very significant challenge to our society for a number of reasons.  Senator Jessop  has referred to one element of that, the questions of freedom of expression within our society, freedom of religion and freedom of travel. The latter question relates to difficulties that have arisen with members of some organisations and the issue of travel documents to such people, the issue of visas and the right to enter Australia. Having said that, I think it has to be conceded that because of some uncertainties about the activities of many of these organisations, the difficulties of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  and any government in this country have to be recognised when it comes to such matters as the issue of travel documents and visas. 

 Senator Jessop has referred to a number of groups that fall within this area. Obviously, the Ananda Marga is the best known of these, along with the Proutist organisations that .at times are associated with the Ananda Marga. I simply make the point in passing that I have been familiar with these organisations for many years because I lived in India for a couple of years a decade ago. I keep in touch with members of the Ananda Marga and with the Proutist organisations in Australia and I have visited all the Ananda Marga schools in Australia, in Perth, Hobart and Sydney. I will say a little more about those organisations later. Similar organisations about which there is the sort of concern  Senator 
Jessop has expressed include the Krishna Consciousness movement, the Church of Scientology, the Unification Church, frequently known as the Moonies, a name derived from the name of their Korean founder, and the Children of God. It is well known that these organisations have spread to many parts of the world. Very little research has been done on this, but I wish to refer to a book entitled  All Gods Children: The Cult Experience-Salvation or Slavery?  written by two American journalists, Carroll Stoner and Jo Anne Parke. With reference to the Krishna Consciousness movement, they point at page 63: 
The group seems solidly entrenched as a counter-culture haven for some young Americans, though its future is highly uncertain. Today, the Hare Krishnas are everywhere. They have set up centres all through Asia, as well as in Europe, Latin America, the Fiji Islands, New Zealand and Australia. 
At page 66 there is a reference to the Children of God and to a report which estimated that in 1 974 there were 120 Children of God communes in the United States. It continues: 
Since 1 974 it appears that the Children of God have toned down their United States operations and are mainly witnessing from travelling communes in other parts of the world, particularly Europe, South America and Australia. 
-No, that was the People's Temple, which is based in California. That incident occurred in Central America. The Children of God has been active in Canberra, handing out pamphlets outside a school, and some concern has been expressed by the community. I have referred to some of the important issues with respect to the protection of the rights of individuals who may be involved in these organisations, but there are many other issues that have to be taken into account.  Senator Jessop  has referred to some of them, and I would like to deal with those and some others. For example, there is the question of the recruitment of members to these organisations. In many cases, great concern is expressed about the methods used to recruit people, especially as they relate to the recruitment of children and the impact of such measures on families. There is also the question of the formation, because of community concern, of groups to counter these organisations, and  Senator Jessop  referred to this in passing. These groups sometimes take the form of parents groups who are concerned about the well-being of their children. I would like again to refer to the book which I mentioned earlier. On page 63 a reference is made to the Krishna Consciousness movement and the following statement is made: 
In Australia, the Krishnas are causing the same kind of parental fury they spark here- 
That is in the United States- and anti-cult groups have been set up to fight them. 
That is in itself a development in our society where parent groups are being formed to counter particularly the recruitment measures of some of these organisations because of the concern of parents for their children. Questions are also raised about the establishment and conduct of schools and other training centres by these organisations, although I have to say that my own visits to Ananda Marga schools have left me impressed with the form of education and the alternative they offer. 
There is also the question of the commercial practices of these various organisations I have already referred to the issue of their entry into Australia and the difficulty that they pose for governments and for the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. But this also raises the question of the right to travel which in turn raises the more general issue of personal liberty or any possible curtailment of the right of citizens in this country to participate in such organisations and their right to basic democratic freedom such as freedom of expression and freedom of religion. In expressing concern about these organisations in this Parliament I think it is important that we take into account and equally concern ourselves for the rights of people who may want to participate in some of these organisations. There is also the question of the relationship of these organisations with the Australian police and other law enforcement and related authorities. We must also consider the extent and adequacy of existing laws relating to these matters. 
These sorts of issues pose a quite fundamental dilemma for our society and I do not believe that we as a society are addressing it adequately at this stage. Any investigation that is being conducted is being done by the media and, of course, necessarily by security and police forces which are charged with the security of the community and nation and must pursue that task diligently. I believe they do. It then raises the question, because the matter is being pursued essentially through these two sources- the media and law enforcement agencies- as to whether it ought to be more effectively raised in our major public forums; that is, the parliaments of this country and in particular the national Parliament. It is my view that these matters should be dealt with and that an inquiry should be conducted by this Parliament, for example, so that a great deal more public information is available about the organisations to which  Senator Jessop  and I have referred this evening. Also we must look closely at questions such as the basic freedoms that are involved and the rights of people to participate in alternative lifestyles or organisations which others may find less attractive. 
I simply conclude by saying that I think the significance of this debate tonight is that the matter has now been brought before the Australian Parliament.  Senator Jessop  has made suggestions as to what might be done between the Commonwealth and the States and I have expressed my view that perhaps this Parliament ought to take a more active role in examining these matters. 
I refer the Minister for Education to reports, including one in the  Canberra Times  today, that language programs in Italian, Greek, Indonesian and Spanish at four Canberra schools are facing problems. Can the Minister say whether he will consider action to ensure that those important programs continue? 
I refer the Minister representing the Prime Minister to the Prime Minister's statement on 27 June on energy policy. He stated: 
The Government has initiated a study of the scope for saving liquid fuels within government departments and agencies. 
Can the Minister say what stage this study has reached and what the findings thus far have been? Can he say when the study is expected to be completed and whether it will be made public? 
I want this evening to raise a matter which was raised in the Senate by  Senator Martin  on 22 August, in a question without notice to  Senator Webster,  the Minister for Science and the Environment, and also to refer to a report in today's  Australian Financial Review.  It relates to suggestions that the Division of Forest Research of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation might be moved from Canberra. There are a number of issues that I would like to raise with the Minister and upon which I will seek his comments. For example, it has been reported that 100, or perhaps more, permanent officers will be transferred from Canberra, that the transfer will cost $12m and that the construction of a new headquarters in Tasmania, to which it has been suggested that the division might be transferred, might cost an additional $ 7m. 
I also understand from reports, and from the Minister's response to  Senator Martin  on 22 August, that the Committee on the Location of Australian Government Employees is at the moment considering this question. I simply want to put to the Minister that there seem to be very strong reasons for not transferring the Division of Forest Research from Canberra. Some of these were referred to by the Minister in his response to  Senator Martin  on 22 August and some have been referred to in Press reports, including that which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  today. I would like simply to go through them and seek the Minister's views upon them. 
As I have already mentioned, it seems that the cost will be at least $12m and perhaps as much as $20m when all aspects of the transfer, including the need for new headquarters facilities in Tasmania, are taken into account. The Minister pointed out in his answer to  Senator Martin  that the CSIRO was opposed to the move. It is opposed, apparently, on administrative grounds and also because of the research activities that are conducted in Canberra, to which I will refer futher. Canberra is in many important respects the centre of forest research in Australia. For example, the Australian National University has a School of Forestry which, as I understand it, has the only Chair in Forestry in Australia. As  Senator Martin  pointed out, in the course of her question, the Division of Forest Research has probably the best library on the subject in Australia, and represents a very important annexe to the Australian National University School of Forestry and to the other research activities of the University. 
The Division of Forest Research also has a very important relationship with the CSIRO 's Division of Plant Industry in Canberra. That seems to me, taken with the other reasons, to support its retention in Canberra. A further factor is that the Division of Forest Research has six regional research stations, all but one of which are on the mainland. That, obviously, would present some administrative and research problems for the Division if its headquarters were placed elsewhere. Related to that, and perhaps most important in this respect I would suggest, is the fact that Tasmania has a very small percentage of the varieties of eucalypt in Australia- I understand in the vicinity of 10 per centwhereas most varieties therefore are established on the mainland, particularly in the south-east a region to which Canberra is central. It is for that reason that forest research has been established in the Australian Capital Territory to the extent that it has. The Minister for Science and the Environment has indicated, again in answer to the question asked by  Senator Martin,  that he feels that there may be a case for upgrading the Division of Forest Research regional Office in Tasmania. But I would suggest that surely there certainly does not seem to be a case for what seems to be at least a $12m transfer of approximately 100 positions. There seems to be too strong a case against it. 
In 1977,  Sir Bede  Callaghan produced a report on the Structure of Industry and the Employment Situation in Tasmania. In doing so, he did not refer to or suggest any such transfer so far as I am aware, though he recognised very explicitly in his report the importance of the timber industry in Tasmania. I quote very briefly from that report. He said: 
. the importance or the Tasmanian timber industry to the State and to the nation now, and in the decades ahead, can scarcely be overstated. 
I think we would all endorse that statement with respect to the timber industry. Of course, we are now referring to the Division of Forest Research in the CSIRO. In the course of  Sir Bede  Callaghan 's inquiry the Tasmanian Timber Industry Association did suggest, as I understand it, in its submission to the inquiry, that the CSIRO Division of Forest Products, not the Division of Forest Research, might be re-established in Tasmania from Melbourne which is where, as I understand it, that Division of Forest Products was based. However, the Division of Forest Products has since been disbanded by the CSIRO. As I understand it, none of the sections of the Division of Forest Products is contained in the Division of Forest Research so we are talking about two different elements of the CSIRO. The Division of Forest Products and its various elements which have been dispersed are not under consideration in this context. 

 Sir Bede certainly, as I understand it, did not make any reference to the possible transfer of the Division of Forest Research out of Canberra. Whatever case there may be for the transfer of the former Division of Forest Products from the mainland to Tasmania there seems to me, on the basis of the arguments that I have put already, to be no case for the proposal that we understand is before the Committee on the Location of Australian Government Employees for the transfer of the Division of Forest Research out of Canberra to Tasmania. Yet, from what the Minister said and from other reports, this matter is actually before this Committee. One has to ask how that comes about and why it is now being considered by the  LAGE Committee, as it is known, particularly when we take into account the enormous cost that is apparently involved, the managerial and administrative problems that such a transfer would create and the fact that this Division would then be removed from the centre of forest research in Australia. 
I can only ask, on the basis of this argument and on the points that I have made to the Senate tonight, whether, in fact, a mistake has been made and what can be done to put a stop to what seems to me to be potentially, at least, a case of administrative madness and an action that would disrupt the work of the CSIRO Division of Forest Research. The Australian National University's School of Forestry is Australia's leading school in this field. As I pointed out earlier, the ANU is the only university with a Chair in Forestry. This transfer also would effect the lives of hundreds of people. It seems to me that there is simply no real justification for these suggestions that the CSIRO 's Division of Forest Research should be transferred from Canberra to Tasmania. I would simply ask the Minister to give his attention to the points that I have raised tonight and to indicate whether this matter might be urgently reviewed so that the problems which I have suggested might occur are avoided, particularly that the disruption to the lives of the people involved might be avoided and, in the more immediate future, that the uncertainty they face might be ended. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs aware that Australia's largest recorded blue topaz, which 1 understand was found in northern Queensland, was recently on display in Canberra and is owned by a resident of Canberra? Is the Minister also aware that its owner has stated that he will give the Commonwealth Government the first option to buy the 262 carat gem for display in the proposed national museum? Does the Minister agree that this would be an appropriate item to display in the national museum? Will the Government consider this purchase? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: In view of the importance of Australia's close relationship with Greece, can the Minister say what stage has been reached in the negotiation of a cultural relations agreement between Australia and Greece? 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
1 ) That a select committee of the Senate be appointed to inquire into and report upon all aspects of the activities in Australia of certain religious sects and cults of recent origin, including those which are of overseas origin, with particular reference to- 
the recruitment of their members, especially as this relates to children and the impact on families; 
the formation of groups, such as citizen and parent groups, to counter the recruiting or other activities of such organisations; 
the establishment and conduct of schools and other training centres by these organisations; 
d ) their com mercia practices; 
the entry of their members into Australia; 
the implications for personnel liberty of any curtailment of the right of citizens to participate in such organisations and their right to basic democratic freedoms; 
their relationship with Australian police and other law enforcement and related authorities; and 
the extent and adequacy of existing laws relating to these matters. 
That provisions relating to membership, powers and proceedings of the committee be contained in a subsequent resolution. 
I had not intended to speak this evening on this matter of the use and parking of bicycles in the vicinicy of Parliament House, but since it has been raised I would like to say one thing. I share most of the sentiments expressed by  Senator Button  as to the fact that many people here who use bicycles now face a problem because they do not have any sheltered area in which to leave them. 
Because these people are my constituents I have a special concern. I understand that the bicycle lobby, as  Senator Button  called it, has taken up the matter with the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives and that he is examining the case that has been put to him. I hope that once he has examined the case the decision will be reversed or perhaps some facilities will be provided in a sheltered area so that these people might be able to ride their bicycles to work at Parliament House, which is something that perhaps all  of  us and particularly those in charge of the Parliament ought to encourage. 
I address a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to comments made on the radio program  AM  yesterday by the Premier of Queensland to the effect, as I understand it, that  Senator Bonner  is promoting land rights for militant black people rather than good black people and that such action is dividing Australia into a black man's country and a white man's country. Can the Minister say whether such statements are correct, particularly as they relate to the Federal Government's Aboriginal land rights legislation? 
I begin by endorsing the view put by  Senator Chipp  that it is appropriate that a matter of the gravity of this should be aired in the national Parliament, because the hideous genocide that has occurred in Kampuchea in recent times and the devastating conditions under which so many millions of Kampucheans now live and die of starvation have to be a matter of concern to anyone in this Parliament and to anybody with any humanitarian instincts anywhere. But I have to say that the motion does exactly what he asks that we do not do, and that is that it introduces politics into this matter. The motion attacks- on spurious grounds, I believe- the failure of the Australian Government, to use the terms of the motion, to do a number of things. The motion simply does not stand up to scrutiny. In being a partisan motion in attacking the Government's action, inevitably in introduces politics into this debate, which one would have hoped might be conducted not at a political level, but rather at a national level in the interests of the people who are dying and starving every day in Kampuchea. I have no doubt that no one in this chamber or in this Parliament can appreciate the suffering that those people must have to face every minute of what is left of their lives. 
I must comment on some of the statements made earlier, particularly by  Senator Wriedt.  It is not a semantic argument if I may say so, to distinguish between support and recognition. If the Australian representative had not supported the credentials of the Kampuchean representatives at the United Nations, there would be no Kampuchean representatives in the United Nations at this time. It is not a matter of semantics. There is a very great difference between support and recognition. 
It is important, because this Government does not support Pol Pot. This motion, I believe, suggests that it does. That is not the case. It is very important to note that this Government recognises the Pol Pot regime, or what is left of it in enclaves in Kampuchea; but it does not support the genocide of which obviously that regime is guilty, or the vicious behaviour of that regime when it held more effective power in that country. In that context, I should also comment on  Senator Wriedt  's reference to Uganda. The point, of course, is that when a new government was installed in Kampala, admittedly backed by Tanzanian troops, it was clearly in control of the territory of Uganda- no one questioned that- and it gained immediate international recognition. That is a very different situation. It is very easy to draw simple parallels, but it does not fit Uganda. There was a government which was in control of the territory which it claimed to control. 
I refer also to statements made by  Senator Mcintosh  to the effect that the Government only as recently as mid-September began to express some concern about the situation in Kampuchea. To say the least, statements of that kind are misleading. No doubt  Senator Mcintosh,  who is a respected colleague of mine on the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, because of his interest in that very subject must be aware that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  has made a number of statements on this issue. The obvious one is his statement in this Parliament on 27 February on the geopolitical situation. In that statement there was extensive discussion of the situation in and the tragedy of Kampuchea. There have been a number of questions answered and statements made, for instance, in March, in May and in July. On 4 July a statement was made by the Foreign Minister after the Association of South East Asian Nations meeting on Indo-China. On 25 July there was reference in the ANZUS communique to the tragedy of Kampuchea and the resolve of the members of ANZUS to try to do something about it. But these things are not done in five minutes, unless there are some means of doing them, and Kampuchea has been closed. It has not been possible to get aid in. 
There have been references, facile references, today to getting aid into Kampuchea by some means other than across the border with Thailand. But my question, which I put to  Senator Mcintosh,  is: How? Where? Where would he get it in? Is he aware that only one aircraft a week can get into Phnom Penh, that there are no unloading facilities and that aircraft have to go on to the ground in Phnom Penh and leave their engines running while boxes are thrown off? The Government has said that it will make an aircraft available and fill it with aid. But what good is that if we cannot get an aircraft in? If we do, there are plenty of other people ready to do it too. But only one aircraft a week is allowed in, and one aircraft carries 40 tonnes. The Australian Government has offered 3,500 tonnes of rice. How much of that is going to get to Phnom Penh on an aircraft? It has to go across the Thai border to Phnom Penh. 
I suggest that if Australia does not recognise the Pol Pot regime, if we do not accept its credentials in the United Nations, Kampuchea is not in the United Nations; it will have no representatives, no voice. If we do recognise Pol Pot, it makes no difference in the world to the amount of aid that we can get into that country. As I understand it, the aid going across the Thai border is in fact going to people who, in theory at least, are supporters of the Pol Pot regime; but that is irrelevant. Presumably most of those people have never heard of Pol Pot. They have probably never heard of Vietnam. But they are suffering because of the policies of both of those countries, and they are dying. It is only across that border that we will get the aid in. The fact that we recognise Pol Pot makes no difference whatever. If we recognised anybody else, or recognised neither of the parties in Kampuchea, it would not make the slightest difference. The question is: How can we help those people who are dying? The answer to that is: By getting aid in now through the World Food Program and international agencies. We have now offered nearly $2m worth of rice. We have made that offer clear. We also have an aircraft ready to go if we can get it in. 
The Minister has made statements on many occasions to the effect that we are quite ready to give more aid if we can get it in. We stand ready to give more aid to the Kampuchean people, particularly if international organisations and other nations will put their weight behind it. There has been no dilatoriness on the part of this Government. There has been no tardiness. It has not neglected the situation. It has not sat back and ignored it. The Minister has been making statements about it all year. The tragedy has been recognised. This Government has been involved in negotiations with international agencies and other governments throughout the year, to try to get aid in to these people and to devise the best means of doing so, while the Opposition sits back and accuses the Government in a partisan fashion, making this a political debate which it ought not be. What is the Opposition doing to help by adopting that attitude? It is sitting back, self-satisfied that with empty words in this Senate it might achieve something. 
I ask: What would the Opposition do? I put these questions to the Opposition: What else would it have done? When would it have done anything? How would the Opposition have got the aid in? And what answers does it offer? Not one word; not one practical word about the starving millions of Kampuchea. There has been lots of empty rhetoric, but not one practical word about what the Opposition would do. One might well ask, for example: What governments recognise the Pol Pot regime?  Senator Chipp  has raised that issue. I make just one point on that, and that is that all our ASEAN neighbours take the same position. It might equally be asked: Who opposes recognition of the credentials of the Pol Pot regime, apart from those opposite? Let me list some of those: Vietnam, obviously; the Soviet Union, obviously; the German Democratic Republic; Mongolia; Cuba; Angola; Libya; Mozambique. That would be good company for Australia. 
I put it to the Opposition that the first part of this motion is utterly specious. It refers to an even-handed policy. One does not have to look back far to the Labor Party's concept of evenhandedness with respect to the Middle East in 1973 and 1974 and the disaster that that represented for Australian foreign policy and Australian policy in the Middle East. What do honourable senators opposite mean by the term even-handedness'? What are they referring to? What would they achieve by adopting what they consider to be an even-handed approach? They have said not one word about what they would achieve, what the term 'even-handedness' means, or what is the virtue of even-handedness in that situation. What about the second part of this spurious motion which has been put to the Senate? Referring to the Government, it states: 
. its failure to respond with sufficient promptness and generosity to the urgent need for relief and aid. 
It is a disgraceful political motion. The Australian Government has been among the foremost countries in trying to negotiate a means of getting aid to the Kampuchean people. It has been among the first to provide aid and has said:  We are ready to give more because we recognise the hideous suffering caused by the genocide of the Pol Pot regime and the terrible suffering that the Kampuchean people now face'. Not only have we done that; we have also constantly done everything in our power as a government and a nation to relieve the problems of refugees. Australia has taken tens of thousands of refugees, recognising their situation as part of this very great problem. One thousand of those refugees have been Kampucheans, coming directly to Australia from Kampuchea. I think that perhaps it is worth bearing in mind that we have not just been involved in negotiations with other governments and with international agencies to try to get aid into Kampuchea, which we have now done and which we have been among the first to do; the matter of refugees has to be seen in the same context. Australia as a nation and this Government have recognised the great suffering of those people and we have taken Indo-Chinese refugees in greater relative numbers than any other country. One thousand of those refugees have come directly from Kampuchea. 
I can only say that this motion introduces a partisan element into debate on this issue. As  Senator Chipp  said, this is undesirable. It can only be destructive. It is a spurious motion. Its reference to the Pol Pot regime is nonsensical. Its reference to a failure on the part of this Government to act promptly in providing assistance is fatuous. This Government has acted as promptly as possible in the circumstances and as generously as any other government. It has made it clear that it will continue to do so. This motion simply seeks to make political capital out of the suffering millions of Kampucheans. It is a disgrace to this chamber that it should have been put before us in the partisan terms in which it has been put to us. We should debate the matter and the community should be aware of the suffering of the Kampucheans, but let us not make it a partisan debate. For those reasons, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
May I speak to the point of order, Madam Acting  Deputy President.  Because my case is so strong, as  Senator Georges  conceded, it is quite clear that the motion is spurious and therefore the question ought now to be put in order to put an end to this debate. 
Question put. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory: Because of the need to consolidate development in the national capital at this stage, can the Minister say whether there is any proposal to continue with planning for development of a new town at Gungahlin? If so, what timing is proposed for this? Secondly, can the Minister say what the Government now proposes to do with respect to the development of Tuggeranong and the use of serviced land in the Tuggeranong Valley? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce able to say why the Australian Capital Territory does not have full representation on the Australian Tourist Commission along the same lines as the States? Can the Minister indicate also whether the Government will consider action to ensure that the Territory is given similar representation on the Australian Tourist Commission as applies to the States? 
As  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I simply say, although in the short time I have been aware that this statement would be made I have not been able to consult with members of the Committee. I think the Committee as a whole would be disappointed that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  has been unable to make known the Government's views on the Joint Committee 's report on planning in the Australian Capital Territory at this stage. I also say that I think it is at least commendable that the Minister has taken the trouble to recognise that the six month period has now elapsed and has made an interim statement indicating that he and the Government are proceeding with their consideration of this very important report. 1 do note from what the Minister has said that he will be shortly in a position to make known to the Parliament the Government's response on the detailed recommendations of the report. 
I think it is worth reiterating that the report covered a very wide range of issues and covered a wide scope with respect to planning issues in this national capital. As  Senator Ryan  has suggested, the response to those recommendations will have considerable significance for the future of this territory, the national capital and the people who live in it. If the Minister and the Government are to take a little more time then perhaps that is acceptable. As  Chairman  of the Committee I must say that I am well aware from discussions I have had with the Minister that he is pursuing this matter quite diligently. He is concerned to make known to the Parliament and therefore to the community as soon as possible details of the Government's response to this very complex but very important matter. I think I could also say on behalf of members of the Committee that we do hope and, indeed, expect that the Minister will make his final statement to the Parliament on behalf of the Government on this matter before the Parliament rises for the summer recess. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) Which recommendations of the Report of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory,  Canberra City Wastes  have (a) been implemented; (b) been implemented in part; and (c) not been implemented. 
Which aspects of the recommendations implemented in part have: (a) been implemented; and (b) not been implemented. 
Which of the recommendations not implemented: (a) have been rejected; and (b) are still under consideration. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
Did the Australian National University Report for 1976, page 10, state that 'the calls for higher payments to fund the employer's eventual liability for pensions under the new Commonwealth Superannuation Act, which were put to the University by the Government in the year's closing days' could be 'actively damaging and destructive*? If so, what action has been taken on this matter since that report. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
What action has been taken in respect of the recommendation of the Working Party on Library Services in its report of April 1 979, that the Australian Bureau of Statistics investigate methods of improving the statistical coverage of handicapped people with particular emphasis on the print-handicapped. 
I want to make clear, because I think it is not clear now that  Senator Button  has intervened, the point I was pursuing, which I am satisfied that the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  has answered. My question related to the requirement to show one's place of birth on a passport and asked whether the requirement is to show the town or city of birth and, in addition, the country of birth. There are citizens of Australia who object to having to put the name of the country of their birth on their passports, but in order to get a visa to that country they are compelled by representatives of that country within Australia to do so. 
I would like a point in the journey clause 7 clarified. I am not clear whether reasons are given when a decision is made to refuse or to cancel a passport by officials or perhaps by the Minister. For example, will reference be made to the section of the Act under which the refusal or cancellation has been decided, or will no reasons be given in such circumstances? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and refers to the recent accident involving a DC8 aircraft at Athens airport, which caused some concern because the aircraft had been carrying radioactive materials. Is the Minister aware that this Parliament's Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, in its 1976 report on Canberra city waste, expressed concern about the lack of safety measures with respect to aircraft using Canberra airport and carrying radioactive materials? Can the Minister say what continuing measures are being taken to ensure safety with respect to aircraft carrying radioactive materials and using Canberra airport? Is the Minister in a position to indicate also what measures are being taken at other airports around Australia in this respect? 
The fact that passport legislation in this country largely has been unchanged for 40 years clearly indicates the need for some reconsideration of this very important legislation at this stage. Whilst the legislation has not changed a great deal in 40 years, the situation in which passports are used and the purposes for which they are issued has changed dramatically. The impact of technology and more specifically communications on this situation, particularly with respect to air travel, has had a dramatic impact. The same is true also of sea and land travel. Many more people are now able to move around the world. Most recently we have witnessed the first effects of the impact of lower air fares, as a result of which we will see a much larger number of people travelling around the world. It is salutary to note that each year in the vicinity of one million Australians now travel overseas. In a nation with a population of 15 million, that is quite an astonishing number. Also to be considered is the impact of relative affluence, particularly in a country such as Australia, which leads increasing numbers of people to seek new experiences- often by overseas travel which, in turn, requires the use of passports. 
In this dramatically changed situation in the last 40 years, the number of passports issued has increased equally dramatically. It is perhaps worth examining, in the course of this debate, the number of passports now being issued in this country. In 1975 just over 370,000 passports were issued; in 1976 over 380,000; in 1977, 367,000; and last year 402,000. To 30 April of this year, 154,000 passports were issued in Australia alone. That figure excludes passports issued by our overseas posts and reflects an increase of almost 19 per cent over the 130,000 issued in Australia in the first four months of 1978. That means that well over 1,000 passports are being issued to Australians every day. It is also worth taking into account that, as I read the figures, this means that nearly a thousand passports a day are being issued within Australia by the Department of Foreign Affairs and its officers in the various States, and that 100,000 are being issued annually by overseas posts. Obviously, the load that those quite remarkable figures must impose on Australia's overseas posts, and on the Department of Foreign Affairs and its State offices, is quite substantial. 
I have referred already to the changed circumstances as a result of which many more Australians are travelling overseas, but it is worth recalling that they are not just tourists. Australia has many traders and entrepreneurs travelling constantly around the world. Many Australian artists, individuals and major performing companies are constantly on the move around the world. Also, Government officials, State and Federal, are constantly on the move pursuing Australia 's interests in a variety of forums, conferences and direct bilateral negotiations on a range of issues. Partly because of this, Australia is constantly opening new posts particularly, most recently, in the Pacific, South America, the Middle East and Africa. As we do so, it is likely that that will have its own impact in increasing the numbers of Australians who travel as facilities, through Australian representation, are made available. All of this means that there will be an increasing consular work load on the Department of Foreign Affairs, on the Department's posts and on the posts of other departments which in some cases assist it in these matters around the world. 
Recently, the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence conducted an inquiry into the operations of the Department of Foreign Affairs. In the course of the inquiry some evidence was taken on the question of the issue of passports and the impact on the Department of the increasing consular work load. In evidence taken on 27 July 1978 one of the officers of the Department, referring to a statement made earlier in the day by the Secretary of the Department, said that it referred both to a previous and to a pending increase in the consular work load. He added:  1 think the simple index of increase in recent years is probably that of the annual rate of passport issue. In looking at a live-year period- a convenient one from 1971-1975- we saw a doubling from about 170.000, in rounded figures, to over 350,000 in that period. This has a double impact on the Department . . . 
I wish to emphasise this -  in that we issue the passport to begin with and then are required in the consular function to respond to the needs of those who are travelling overseas as a consequence. 
So it is not simply the issue of the passport but the follow-up work that often occurs with respect to lost passports, et cetera. People who are travelling may lose their money, have goods stolen or find themselves in difficulty for other reasons. The consular work load, in that sense, extends far beyond the simple issuing of passports or other travel documents to Australians. As I have mentioned already, each year about a million Australian citizens travel overseas. I refer again to the evidence given to the Committee by the same officer on the same day, that is 27 July 1978, concerning the possible increase in the number of Australians who will travel overseas. He stated: 
Wc have to face the possibility that in about 10 years time the figure of Australians going overseas will have gone to three million, as against approximately one million Australians going overseas per year at present. Now even taking a halfway point of 1985, and resting solely on a Qantas projection, one is looking at at least a doubling to two million. 
So it looks as if, by the mid-1980s, we may have at least two million Australians travelling overseas, and by the end of the 1980s perhaps three million. As I have said, already the Department of Foreign Affairs, and its posts, are issuing close to half a million passports a year. If the number of Australians who travel is trebled it gives some measure of the amount of work that this will involve for the Department and the difficulties that, in turn, it may involve for its posts. 
I refer to those matters because they help to emphasise how important it is that our passport legislation should be brought up to date, as this Bill attempts to do. The issuing of passports is becoming a massive task for government and for its civil servants. I should refer to the fact that the Department of Foreign Affairs has been responsible for the issuance of passports only since, as 1 recall it, 1975. I believe that is appropriate because, obviously, the very large numbers of Australians travelling overseas by land, sea or air, can have a significant impact, simply by their presence in various countries, on Australia's international relations. When we consider that in perhaps a decade some 20 per cent of our population may travel overseas in the course of the year we realise that the impact that- simply by their presence, behaviour and activities- this can have on our relationships with other countries could be quite significant. Indeed, I believe that already, with about a million people travelling overseas each year, it is quite significant. 
In referring to the impact of those travellers on our relations with other countries it is worth noting that the issue of passports, as this legislation reflects, and as was stated in the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  is relevant to our obligations to other countries. The Minister said that Australia has an obligation to the countries to which its citizens travelled. Already Australian passports contain a message from the GovernorGeneral asking those countries, in formal terms, to provide free passage, protection and assistance to the bearer in the traditional sense in which those terms are meant. That, of course, imposes on any Australian government a responsibility to ensure, to the extent that it can, that passports will not be issued to persons who may, in one way or another, threaten the security, national integrity or public order of another country, or the rights of that country's citizens. Obviously, that refers particularly to certain extremists and extremist organisations, terrorists, those who may be involved in the drug trade, and people of that kind. 
Debate interrupted. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
I have referred to the frequency of Australians travelling overseas and the vast number of passports being issued. I emphasise the need for greater attention to be given to the career structure in the Australian Consular Services. I referred earlier to the inquiry undertaken by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. In this context I would simply like to refer to some of the findings of that Committee in its report which has been tabled in the Senate. I quote from page 6 of the report: 
The Committee recommends that a very high priority bc given to a thorough review of consular and administrative careers with the aim of developing a career structure for officers performing varied, responsible and essential services. 
On page 47 of the Senate Committee's report there is also reference to the importance of effective training of consular staff. Without going over that in detail, I would simply like to emphasise that the Senate Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee did see a very real need for the development of a career consular service and a need for more effective training and support facilities for our consular services provided to Australians around the world. The Minister for Foreign 
Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  did, in a statement to Parliament on 26 May 1978, indicate that the Government was giving attention to these matters. I would hope that pursuant to the Senate Committee's report those activities might be intensified to ensure that the consular staff is properly trained to meet the very demanding and varied tasks that it must face around the world. There ought to be a proper career structure in particular so that officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs who are involved in consular work will be encouraged to remain in that career; their experience is then consistently available to the Department in later years and it is not lost as they leave the Department or consular activities to seek advancement elsewhere. 
All of this adds strength to the argument that the passport legislation that we are now considering is of very considerable importance. It is equally important that the integrity of the passport ought to be maintained because of the large number of people travelling. It must be appreciated that if in some way the value of a document such as a passport is devalued, it will only lead to greater difficulties for the very large number of Australians travelling around the world. Therefore if passports are lost and frequently turn up in the hands of people who ought not to have them and are misused in various ways by criminals or people involved in extremist activities, Australian passports will not be treated with the respect with which they are now treated. Travelling Australians using Australian passports will find their way hindered as a result because officials of the countries to which Australians travel will then scrutinise documents far more carefully if they are concerned that Australian documents are being misused. 
It is important to maintain the integrity of the Australian passport. This legislation is directed at ensuring that people do take their passport seriously and do understand its significance as a travel document. As a result of that, the penalties which are provided in this legislation are, I would concede, quite severe. It has to be noted that these penalties have not changed since the 1920s, as I understand it. As I indicated at the outset, the .situations in which passports are used and the numbers being used have changed quite dramatically, particularly in recent times. As I have just suggested, it is very important that we maintain the standing and the integrity of the Australian passport, Australians may find difficulty in their travels as a result of much closer scrutiny and concern on the part of officials of other countries. 
Amendments will be moved by the Opposition in the Committee stage. As I have said, I concede that the penalties contained in this legislation are quite severe, but I believe they have to be seen in the context, firstly, of the very large numbers of passports being issued to Australians travelling overseas and, secondly, the importance of maintaining the integrity and acceptability of the Australian passport as a travel document to facilitate the movement of Australians when they travel overseas. It is worth pointing out in that context that the penalties created by this legislation follow, as I understand it, most of the penalties prescribed in the Crimes Act for comparable offences. The Opposition has been critical of the penalty, for example, of a maximum of one year's imprisonment for the failure of a person to report the loss or theft of a passport as soon as that person becomes aware of the loss or theft. 
There was some exchange between  Senator Chaney  and  Senator Button.  I understand that  Senator Button  was somewhat concerned about that provision for some reason. It seems, I would suggest, that in a sense this is not excessive. It is designed to highlight the importance of the passport and to deter people who may lose their passport and not report it, or people who may be tempted, for example in difficult circumstances, to sell their passport. The penalty is designed to deter such actions or to ensure that people do report a lost passport. As I understand it, several thousand passports are lost or are reported lost each year. Very few of these are reported to be recovered subsequently. It does seem to be a problem of some proportion and one with which this legislation through the penalties provided seeks to deal. 
Another matter that I would like to deal with in respect of this legislation is the question of the place of birth of the Australian citizen being required on the passport. In his second reading speech, the Minister referred at some length to this difficulty and the problems that it poses for many Australians. He points out that many people have expressed their concern about this. The Parliamentary Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence recommended that the deletion of this provision as to place of birth ought to be considered and the Government established an interdepartmental committee to examine that question. 
I will be referring to a number of countries shortly as to this provision in the legislation and the requirement as to place of birth. The Government has reached the conclusion following these examinations that the omission of the place of birth provision poses a number of problems. It is required on application documents, in any case. Some countries require it to be shown on the passport before they will issue a visa. The problem has been put to me that in fact some Australians whose country of birth is other than Australia and who now have an Australian passport cannot get a visa to return to their former homeland. This happens, for example, if that country is not specifically named on their Australian passport. It can readily be argued- I would agree- that it raises real questions as to the rights of Australians when another country says to an Australian citizen that he must have a certain item of information on his passport or a visa will not be issued to him to return to that country. 1 emphasise that I am talking about people- cases of which I am awarewho sought to return to their country of origin. It may well be that in some cases people nowadays put their town or city of origin as the place of birth rather than the country. I believe that some embassies in Australia still require that the country of origin, as they understand that country, ought to be placed on the passport. That seems to me to suggest some attempt to question the right of Australian citizens to decide what information they will put on the passport when the Australian Government has made it quite clear that a town or city of birth is adequate. 
I understand that a survey has been done of a number of countries, through our embassies overseas, as to their requirements in this respect. Some 56 countries responded to an inquiry as to whether they would accept the place of residence rather than the place of birth on Australian passports. Fourteen of those countries indicated that they would find that unacceptable. Those countries are Turkey, South Africa, Syria, Italy, Egypt, West Germany, France, Nigeria, Ethiopia, Israel, Trinidad and Tobago, Zambia, Guyana and Yugoslavia. A further 18 countries said that whilst they would not necessarily reject Australian passports showing only the place of residence, the place of birth details would continue to remain a requirement for entry and departure documentation. Those 18 countries are Ghana, Greece, Brazil, Philippines, Bangladesh, Tanzania, Vietnam, Pakistan, Jamaica, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, Soviet Union, Botswana, Burma, Sweden, Iran, Austria and the United States of America. 
I suggest that those lists show a wide diversity of countries in each group which have indicated that they would not accept the place of residence and, in any case, would require details as to the place of birth and country of birth on visa documents. I say that only because it raises questions with respect to the amendment that has been proposed, as I understand it. It also emphasises the difficulty in dealing with this issue. On the one hand an Australian citizen with an Australian passport ought to have the right to decide, in accordance with Australian law, what information should go on his passport. On the other hand, when one is travelling to someone else's country the Government and the authorities in that country have a right, which must be recognised, to say what information they require before they permit entry. 
I appreciate that, but I have indicated that that might not resolve the issue as it stands, given the information that is available from a number of countries. It is a very complex issue. Whilst it relates to the rights of an Australian citizen seeking to travel it equally relates to the rights of other countries, their governments and people, to which an Australian citizen is seeking entry. The issue is of great sensitivity to many Australians. For that reason I believe a good deal more work needs to be done on this matter at a time when a whole range of human rights issues is before the United Nations, for example, and in the minds of a lot of people around the world for a lot of very good reasons. It seems to me that it is a matter that needs to be dealt with internationally, through the United Nations, and also bilaterally. The Australian Government- any Australian government- has a responsibility to pursue the interests of its citizens who may be concerned about the information required of them by other governments, information which they feel they ought not have to give. I suggest that in that context it is the responsibility of any Australian government to attempt to deal with these matters bilaterally; to reach an agreement which, whilst meeting the requirements of other governments, also meets the interests and concerns of Australian citizens. In saying that I recognise that this matter is tied up with great difficulties in respect of questions of dual citizenship which are not readily resolvable but which governments must continue to attempt to resolve in the interests of their own and other citizens. 
One other matter I would like to deal with briefly is child abduction. I have to say that in my electorate there have been a number of cases in which children have been taken by one spouse or by one partner in a dissolved relationship and that spouse or partner has left the country with the children without any reference to the other spouse or former partner to the great distress of that person. There simply are not effective controls on the ability of people to remove children from this country. In one case of which I am aware custody proceedings were pending. One of the parties involved simply took the children and went to a country with which Australia has limited relations in respect of such matters. There has proved to be no way in which the interests of the person remaining in Australia and that person's right to access to that person's children can be met. One must welcome any measures to help overcome such difficulties. Obviously the provisions of this legislation do not by any means entirely eliminate the problem but the legislation does address itself to the issue in an attempt to tighten up procedures in respect of the issue of passports and their use. Of course, passport legislation is only one aspect of this very great problem that causes such deep emotional distress to people when they are affected by it. Obviously a number of other aspects of our legal structure need to be considered and reconsidered to ensure protection for people in this situation. 
The Government established an interdepartmental committee to investigate the issue. A statement was made on 26 August by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  It was a Press statement and was issued publicly. It is on the record. I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 

The Federal Government has decided to introduce tough new measures aimed at preventing children being removed from Australia by one parent without the knowledge or against the wishes of the other parent. 
The Government has also decided that in appropriate cases it will grant financial assistance to assist parents instituting court action overseas to recover children removed from Australia by the other parent. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Andrew  Peacock, and the Attorney-General,  Senator Peter  Durack, QC, said today the new measures followed a detailed review of what legislative and administrative changes were necessary to reduce the incidence of child removal. 
The Ministers said media reports had suggested that hundreds of children may have been removed from Australia by one parent without the consent of the other. About 10 such cases come to the Government 's notice each year. 
While the number of child removal cases does not appear to bc as high as the media reports suggest, the Government is concerned to make its legislation and administrative procedures as effective as possible to minimise the problem; ' the Ministers said. 
Because of the frequency of marriages in Australia between partners of different ethnic and cultural backgrounds  and the availability of rapid transport, the problem is likely to increase in Australia ' the Ministers said. 
The Ministers said the prevention of child removal was a complex matter involving questions of jurisdiction, dual nationality, citizenship, freedom of travel and rights of the child. 
It is important to understand that there is no instant panacea for this problem. But we hope that when the new legislative and administrative measures are put into effect, the Government will both reduce the occurrence of the problem and assist in the recovery of children who have been succesfully removed from Australia, ' the Ministers said. 
The Ministers said the changes included: 
Revision of sections 62 and 63 of the Migration Act 1 9S8, which provide for offences in respect of the removal and carriage from Australia of children in respect of whom custody or access orders have been made or arc being sought, to give them broader application, and relocation of the provisions to the Family Law Act 1975 where their existence should become more generally known; 
Improving procedures for the entry of details of some children on warning lists and tightening of checks at departure points; 
Officers of the Departments of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and Business and Consumer Affairs stepping up at departure points identification checks of children who are accompanied by only one parent: 
Tighten parental consent requirements for the issue of passports to children leaving Australia; 
Approaches to courts to achieve better communication of orders for delivery up of passports by applicants to police and foreign embassies and consulates in Australia; 
Requesting foreign diplomatic missions in Australia to decline passport facilities in respect of children who they are informed or who they have reasonable cause to believe are the subject of Australian court orders for delivery up of passports; 
Additional and further approaches to other countries, especially New Zealand, to secure arrangements for the reciprocal enforcement of custody orders between Australia and those countries; 
Continued participation by Australia in discussions in the Hague Conference on Private International Law on a proposed international convention on the specific problem of child removal; 
Authorisation of the Attorney-General to grant financial assistance in deserving cases to assist parents to institute legal proceedings overseas for recovery of their children removed from Australia by the other parent. 
Inclusion of the problem on the agenda in future discussions between Australia and New Zealand on travel arrangements between the two countries. 
The Ministers said that the States would be asked to cooperate in making information on measures to prevent removal of children from Australia available from magistrates ' courts. 
Until these measures had been implemented the Ministers suggested that people who suspected their children may be removed from Australia by the other parent should consult a solicitor, or a registry of the Family Court of Australia, the Family Court of Western Australia or the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory for information on preventive measures. 
There is one other matter that I wish to touch upon. It relates to the question of appeals against the refusal or delay of an application for a passport. I make the point at the outset that the passport legislation which the Bill before us amends has been in existence for 40 years without appeal procedures. No appeal procedures are contained in this legislation although I understand that ought not be taken to mean that the Government does not wish to consider and to implement some form of appeal procedures. In fact that whole issue was examined in reviewing existing legislation during the preparation of the Bill before us. A statement on this matter appeared in the annual report of the Department of Foreign Affairs for the year ended 31 December 1978. 1 think that statement bears looking at in the context of this legislation. It stated that the question of a review was: 
. expected to continue, particularly when the Passports Act comes within the ambit of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and when the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act comes into effect. 
That was stated in the annual report of the Department of Foreign Affairs for last year. The Government is looking at this question of appeals; it recognises that there ought to be some mechanism for appeals. The real question is what sort of mechanism it ought to be and when and how it ought to be introduced. As I understand it, the view has been taken by the Government that the legislation ought to be in operation for a period to enable it to assess how many appeals there might be, the nature of those appeals and, in the context of that information, the mechanism by which such appeals might be dealt with. 
The honourable senator may consider it to be hocus-pocus. That would be characteristic of the cynical view that he seems to take of many matters. I am simply saying that a statement was made in the annual report of the Department of Foreign Affairs which indicated a commitment to an appeals mechanism. I understand that the Government wishes to see this legislation in operation so that it can determine the best form of appeals machinery to handle appeals under the legislation. It might be preferable from the honourable senator's point of view to introduce appeals machinery now and then have to change it later. The Government takes the view that it would like to introduce machinery that will work. I understand that the Labor Party has few reservations about introducing things that do not work, but the Government takes a different view. 
I wish to make an additional point. I understand that the Ombudsman legislation already provides an avenue for challenging decisions to refuse to issue a passport or to cancel a passport, or in relation to any delay in the issue of a passport, which refers to one of the Opposition's proposed amendments. So there is immediate provision of appeal to the Ombudsman with respect to these administrative decisions. Also, the Government is examining the need for appeals machinery. I would agree that it is necessary but 1 would like to be sure, as I think the Government would like to be sure, that when an appeals mechanism is introduced it is relevant to the type of appeals that are likely to emerge under this legislation and that it works in the interest of those making the appeal. 
It is an avenue of appeal that is available. 
The honourable senator either deliberately misunderstands or fails to understand. I prefer to think that he does not misunderstand deliberately. I am saying that there is an avenue of appeal on these administrative decisions and that in the process as I understand it- I hope the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  will address himself to this in responding to the second reading debate- the Government has under consideration the question of what is the best form of appeals machinery to be applied under this legislation. I think that is clear enough. 
I conclude by reiterating what I said about the passports legislation in this country being virtually unchanged for several decades. At a time when the situation affecting the issue and use of passports has changed dramatically, when one million Australians are travelling annually and when the Department of Foreign Affairs and its posts around the world are now issuing nearly 500,000 passports a year, it is important that Australia's passports legislation be brought up to date, that it be more effective and that decisions be made in a way that is more open and fairer to the community. Whilst this legislation may leave some gaps that disconcert members of the Opposition and perhaps may impose penalties that some consider too severe, I would suggest nevertheless that it is an important step towards bringing Australia's passports legislation up to date. 
I seek the guidance of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  on the issue which  Senator Tate  raised. I concede the specific issue that  Senator Tate  referred to while not conceding the general proposition which he was putting initially. I think  Senator Tate  recognises that. I put to the Minister that while I accept in a certain practical sense, the need expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  to create a document in which changes are not constantly required and which, therefore meets the needs of the travelling public in general, a number of people in the community are quite justifiably concerned about some of the impositions placed upon them by some governments which are represented in this city. For example, when I spoke earlier I raised the question of people travelling with an Australian passport in which there is a requirement for the Australian citizen to put his or her place of birth. They put the city of their birth, which is the place of their birth, but when they go to one of these embassies they are required to put the country of birth. 
This raises a question as to the rights of Australians in that context, because that situation occurs in Australia. One would assume that the town or city of birth would legitimately be considered the place of birth. In this capital of Australia we have a situation in which certain governments say to Australian citizens: 'We will tell you what you must put on your Australian passport'. I think that is the specific issue which  Senator Tate  is addressing and which ought to be addressed thoroughly by the Government. I simply ask: Given the practicalities and difficulties which the Government posed in issuing these very important travel documents to individuals, is it attempting to negotiate with some of these countries that take a firm stand on this issue? There are many such countries from which many Australians come, such as Turkey, Italy and Yugoslavia, all of which are among the 14 countries which have said that they would find the suggested substitution unacceptable. I simply ask: Are we negotiating this? Are we discussing with these countries on a governmenttogovernment bilateral basis to try to meet what are to be fairly considered the legitimate interests of many Australian citizens? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. In view of the fact that the Australian Capital Territory egg industry is now threatened by the dumping of Victorian eggs and by the failure of the New South Wales-- 
I am well aware of  Senator McLaren's  ignorance of this matter, without his saying any more. To the people of the Capital Territory this is no yolk! I ask the Minister: In view of the failure of the New South Wales and Victorian authorities to resolve their differences, can the Minister say whether he will immediately introduce legislation to protect this industry and some 60 or 70 jobs in the Territory? 
Yes. On page 1250 of the Senate  Hansard  of 1 1 October, during consideration of the Passports Amendment Bill 1979,  Senator Evans  was referring to end of season football trips. He referred to the capacity for disruption, loutishness and general barbarism of behaviour which sometimes attends these sorts of occasions.  Hansard  then records me as saying: A lot of them are rugby union sides'. In fact, I said: 'Not if they are rugby union sides'. I am sure the Senate will appreciate that as a former player, as a representative of Parliament against the Australian Broadcasting Commission side, and as patron of the Australian Capital Territory Rugby Union, I would of course not make such a reflection on rugby union sides, although I cannot speak for other codes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
What is the nature and location of Australia's official diplomatic trade and other representation in South Africa. 
What other countries have embassies, legations, consular, trade or other formal representation in South Africa, and what is the nature and location of that representation in each case. 
What other countries maintain formal diplomatic, trade and other relations with South Africa, but do not have missions located in South Africa. 
In what countries does South Africa maintain diplomatic, trade or other official representatives. 
I present the following petition from 883 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in the Parliament assembled, the petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the National Capital Development Commission has plans at an advanced stage to auction off for medium density development Fisher Place Park (Section 3 1 ) Ainslie, a unique natural parkland bounded by Hassall, Duffy and Ebden Streets and Herbert Crescent, Ainslie in the Australian Capital Territory, contrary to the wishes of the residents and other Australian citizens. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in the Parliament assembled, should, being mindful of the recreational needs, health and well-being of present and future generations, including the Scout and Cub Groups whose hall is sited on Fisher Place Park, take measures to ensure that this parkland be preserved and gazetted a parkland. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. As the office of Defence Force Ombudsman is, I understand, currently vacant, when will legislation to establish a Defence Force Ombudsman be introduced? When is it expected that a person will be permanently appointed to this office which is of such importance to the Defence Force? Will the Minister confirm the Government's continuing commitment to providing such an avenue of appeal for Australia's Defence Force personnel? 
Because of the comments of  Senator McLaren  I feel compelled to say something about the important subject of the egg industry in the Australian Capital Territory. While I acknowledge  Senator McLaren's  expertise with respect to chickens and eggs- even if we are unsure which came first- I hope he will acknowledge my legitimate concern with events in my electorate. I must express some surprise at much of what  Senator McLaren  said. Locally, the Australian Labor Party is adopting a quite bipartisan position on this matter. In fact, in many instances it has taken the initiative in attempting to protect a local industry. These people, including, I believe,  Senator McLaren's  Labor Party colleagues  Senator Ryan  and  Mr Fry  from the House of Representatives, are not acting in ignorance. I understand that  Mr Fry  directly and through his family was involved in the poultry industry. I think he knows that industry. I think that the people in the Territory who have taken an interest in this matter have looked into it carefully and are not acting simply out of parochial motives. It seems that, despite that bipartisan approach in the Territory,  Senator McLaren  wants this industry in the Australian Capital Territory destroyed. This is despite the fact that it is widely acknowledged as the most efficient of its kind in Australia. He wants it destroyed despite the fact that the Australian Capital Territory egg industry, which has more than one producer, although the others are small producers, has consistently produced eggs at the lowest possible prices in Australia for some time and despite the fact that the industry provides some 60 or 70 jobs in the Territory. It seems from what  Senator McLaren  has said that, firstly, he is completely out of tune with his Labor Party colleagues- I hope he is- and that, secondly, he would destroy this industry in the Territory or would stand by and see it destroyed by others. 
I am sorry. The honourable senator may not have said that directly, but he might as well have because he clearly implied, in everything he said, that he would be quite happy to see the egg industry in the Australian Capital Territory destroyed. Whatever reservations I might have about artificial marketing arrangements, it has been accepted to ensure orderly production and marketing arrangements in the egg industry for a number of years. One of the difficulties that the Australian Capital Territory faces is that it is not properly represented on the organisations that have been established to ensure the orderly production and marketing of eggs in Australia- for example, the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia. It is my view that if the Australian Capital Territory had proper representation on the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia and if some States gave the Territory and one of its industries a fair go- for example, if they would act with restraint between one another and with reasonthen none of this would have happened. 

 Senator McLaren has talked about the hen quota. Victoria can dump eggs in the Australian Capital Territory because the quota in the Australian Capital Territory is inadequate. It should be in the vicinity of 250,000 birds. In fact, it is not much more than half that number, as I understand at present. A new quota is being negotiated. I hope that reason will prevail and the Australian Capital Territory producers will be given a quota which will permit them to produce eggs to meet the demand in the Australian Capital Territory market. As I said, the reason that the Victorian Egg and Egg Pulp Marketing Board can dump eggs in the Territory is that the quota in the Territory is inadequate. This answers the argument as to the quota. If we had a reasonable quota in the Territory our producers would be able to meet the demand, as the State producers are intended to be able to meet the demand within their States through the quota system. It is my view- I know that some people differ on this point- that because of its lack of proper representation the Australian Capital Territory does not have a chance to put its case effectively in the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia although, as I understand it, the Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Ellicott,  has intervened to see whether something can be done. I hope that something will now be achieved by negotiation in an atmosphere of restraint and reason. 
I refer briefly to the immediate situation. Victoria is now dumping eggs in the Australian Capital Territory, undercutting the local price and thereby threatening to drive the local industry to the wall, although the Australian Capital Territory normally has and would in reasonable circumstances still have the lowest priced eggs in Australia. As I understand it and as  Senator McLaren  has suggested this evening the Victorian Egg and Egg Pulp Marketing Board is dumping eggs in the Australian Capital Territory because of the action of a producer based in Griffith, who is selling eggs in Victoria. Why is that producer from New South Wales selling in Victoria? My understanding of the situation is that the producer in Griffith is marketing in Victoria because of zoning arrangements in New South Wales which prevent him from reaching a market to sell his eggs. Therefore, to dispose of his produce, he is marketing in Victoria. Victoria is not retaliating against New South Wales, despite the fact that both those States have full representation on the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia. Instead, it is extending the dispute to the Australian Capital Territory in a deliberate attempt to destroy a local industry to try to win an argument which should be conducted between two States of the Commonwealth and the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia. 
I understand that the Victorian and New South Wales egg boards have, partly as a result of moves by the Minister for the Capital Territory, conducted some negotiations to attempt to resolve the difficulties that have arisen between those States, which are, I reiterate, full members of the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia in which these matters ought to be resolved. I am told that the negotiations have been unsuccessful to this point. Surely these States can settle their differences without attacking a highly efficient and well-established industry in the Australian Capital Territory? The local industry produces for the Australian Capital Territory market and for the people of the Australian Capital Territory the cheapest eggs in Australia. It provides jobs for 60 or 70 people in the Territory.  Senator McLaren  seems to want to destroy this industry. Apparently he would happily dispose of the jobs involved in the Australian Capital Territory. 
You showed great concern for jobs. Let me just make the point that he is freely disposing of 60 or 70 jobs in the Territory in his willingness to destroy this industry and without a second thought. He would be quite happy to see that happen when surely New South Wales and Victoria ought to be able to resolve this matter either by sensible and restrained negotiation or through the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia of which they are both members and of which the ACT is not a full member. I have to say to  Senator McLaren  that I do not believe that people in this Territory will accept the stand that we should simply dispose of this industry and allow the Victorian Egg Marketing Board to dump its surplus in this Territory, and undercut the price of the local eggs to meet a demand that ought to be met by the local industry. It is now being driven to the wall in this war with Victoria which ought to be settled between Victoria and New South Wales. If the Victorian Egg Marketing Board is not prepared to act reasonably in this matter so that an ACT industry is able to survive, it is incumbent on the authorities in the Territory- the authorities with the power to do something, such as the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)-  to take action. The Minister has indicated that he will legislate to protect this industry if necessary, if orderly marketing arrangements which the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities in Australia is supposed to establish cannot be established as they ought to be. 
I have to say quite simply to  Senator McLaren  that the people in this Territory will not stand by and see an important industry destroyed and 60 or 70 jobs disposed of because the Victorian Egg Marketing Board cannot settle a dispute with a producer in New South Wales. Victoria then comes in here, dumps eggs and attempts to destroy an important industry. If it happened in South Australia, in the honourable senator's State, I suggest that he would say that it was not on. On behalf of the ACT, I say that it is not on here. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
What action has been taken in respect of the recommendation of the Working Party on Library Services in its report of April 1979, that the National Library Council establish a national advisory committee on library services for the handicapped. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  What have you and  Mr Speaker  been able to achieve in recent times to meet the needs of cyclists who work in Parliament House and who have sought better facilities for the parking of their bicycles during working hours? 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Leave granted. 
I wish to refer to the comments made a moment ago by  Senator McLaren. 
In doing so I would like to point out that I am quoted in the  Canberra Times  this morning as saying: 

 Senator McLaren seems bent on ensuring the destruction of an industry in the ACT- 
This morning  Senator McLaren  has given an unqualified assurance that that is not his intention. I take his word for it. 
-We will see whether actions bear out what he said. In making this personal explanation I should like to refer to an exchange which occurred in the debate last night and which I think would help clarify the situation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
What action has been taken in respect of the recommendation of the Working Party on Library Services, in its report of April 1979, that the proposed national advisory committee on library services for the handicapped examine in detail Australian Standard 1428-1977, Design Rules for Access by the Disabled, with a view of ensuring that the standard is adequate for buildings and facilities providing library services. 
My question to the Minister for Social Security refers to proposed changes to the Child Care Act 1972 and the proposed introduction of a children's services Bill to deal with a range of services provided for children. Can the Minister say what stage has been reached in the preparation of this legislation and whether it will, in fact, be introduced in the International Year of the Child? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
What action has been taken by the Department of Foreign Affairs concerning Recommendation 276 of the Report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, suggesting that a task force on Australia and International Economic Issues should be established. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
1 ) What assistance has Australia provided to programs, either through international organisations or bilateral programs, to assist in the control of world population growth. 
What has been the nature and value of the assistance in each case. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory aware that the system of commercial leasehold in the Australian Capital Territory is now clearly acting as a disincentive to private investment in the Territory? Is the Minister aware that the Master Builders Association in the Australian Capital Territory indicated recently that, if the commercial leasehold system were reformed to extend the duration of leases and to simplify some aspects of those leases, then private commercial investment in the Territory might increase in this year from around $30m to $60m? I therefore ask: What action can be taken to simplify the commercial leasing system in the Territory to provide a positive incentive to greater private investment in the Australian Capital Territory? 
I begin by endorsing what  Senator Tate  said. I believe the matter before the Senate is a bipartisan one. The terms of the matter of public importance are: 
The increasing world expenditure on arms and the need for all governments to exercise their influence to arrest this trend for the benefit of mankind. 
The two elements of the matter of public importance are the increasing expenditure on armaments around the world by governments and the efforts that should be taken by all of usincluding the Australian Government- to try to reverse that trend. I believe that the issue is of great moral as well as practical importance and complexity. At one point  Senator Tate  said that surely this truth would be self-evident to a reasonable and rational world community. Often the world community, as a community, does not act reasonably and rationally. Perhaps we ought to be directing our attention- I suppose we are in a sense- not just to the surface issue of armaments, expenditure on armaments and the proliferation of weapons but also to the measures that might create a more reasonable and rational world community so that we will all behave more reasonably and rationally in our attitudes and relationships with one another on this very small globe that we inhabit. 
Of course it is appalling that hundreds of billions of dollars are spent annually on armaments. Estimates range from $350 billion a year to more than $400 billion a year. Whatever the amount, we know that it is in the vicinity of $ 1 billion a day. This beggars the imagination. This is happening in a world where- again the figures are uncertain- it seems that at least 400 million children go to bed hungry every night and where thousands of children die every day through hunger. This happens unnecessarily and because the world does not act reasonably and rationally. There are issues beyond armaments and the proliferation of weapons that I think are important when addressing this issue. It is patently obvious that what is happening in this respect is not in the interests of the human race and its survival. It is essential that a country such as Australia- I am speaking in realistic terms, given that the world is not as reasonably and as rational as we would like- should maintain a real deterrent. It must have effective defence forces. Genuine efforts at general disarmament would obviate that need. It is towards that end and towards lasting peace in the world that we all direct our efforts. The question is how we do it and to what issues we direct our attention. It is obvious that we have to support the measures being taken in the United Nations, whatever reservations we may have at times about the sincerity with which some who are involved in those discussions approach the issues. We must hope that the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks between the super-powers will lead to greater mutual restraint on their part and that that, in the longer term as we approach SALT III, might lead to some reduction in the proliferation of the highly destructive armaments which the super-powers possess more than any other nation. We have to play our part by supporting the Treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. I think that earlier speakers expressed reservations about the effect of that treaty. Nevertheless it is there and it may be an instrument that we can support to some end. Obviously, wider disarmament must be the ultimate objective. 
I conclude by saying that obviously the matter is of public importance to this chamber, to the Parliament, to the people of Australia and to people all over the world. There has been extensive debate this afternoon on this important issue. As  Senator Tate  suggested, this debate will provide the Government with a clear message: The Senate clearly believes that we must direct our attention increasingly to the question of arms expenditure and the need for disarmament in a world where hundreds of millions of people, particularly children in this International Year of the Child, are undernourished and suffering. As I said at the outset, I believe that there is a bipartisan approach to the issue and particularly to the objective. There may be a different approach as to how certain things might be achieved. I suggest the goal of disarmament is as obvious as its achievement is difficult. I move: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1 979: 
What progress has been made in establishing the zones into which Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) Offices will be grouped, referred to in Rehabilitation in Australia, April 1979, page 27. 
Where are zone managers based, or where is it intended they should be based, for each zone. 
Has the Departmental study of the second and third tiers of services to be offered by the CES, in accordance with the recommendations of the Norgard Report, been completed; if so what were the findings of the study; if not, when is it expected to be completed. 
Will all CES officers be able to provide second and third tier services on completion of the zone arrangements, particularly services to the disabled, as the above report in Rehabilitation in Australia states was recommended in the Norgard Report. 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I present a report on the proposals for variations to the plan of lay-out of the city of Canberra and its environssixtyeighth series- together with extracts from the minutes of proceedings of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- In preparing this report the Committee had before it the report of the Australian Capital Territory House of Assembly's Standing Committee on Finance. The  Chairman  of that Committee appeared before the Joint Committee to discuss the report of the Assembly. It is not intended that the work of the Assembly's committee should duplicate the work of the Joint Committee of this Parliament, but it is obviously helpful to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory to have the Assembly's views and to be able to take them into account. We welcome this process of cooperation between the Australian Capital Territory House of Assembly and the national Parliament. 
Initially 18 variations in this series were under consideration. However, one was withdrawn by the National Capital Development Commission at th. hearing. The total value of the variations considered was $1,045,000. Objections were lodged to seven of the proposed variations. The Committee heard evidence on these and has approved all but two. The total value of the work involved in the 15 variations approved is $885,000. 
A variation was proposed to provide for a road part of the way to the summit of Mount Taylor in the suburb of Chifley. The Chifley- Mount Taylor Residents Association felt that this road would adversely affect residents in the area. The Committee carefully considered the views of the Association and other views put forward, including those of the House of Assembly but, after considering the alternatives proposed by the Association, decided that the roadworks envisaged by the National Capital Development Commission were the most desirable alternative and that this work should proceed. The proposal has therefore been approved by the Committee. 
Careful consideration was also given to objections by Pedal Power to modifications of the cycle path system. Whilst the Committee has approved the proposed changes, some reservations have been indicated and the Committee would expect these to be taken into account by planners in the further development of the cycle path system. 
The proposed variations in the Belconnen Town Centre- sections 54, 55 and 65- gave rise to considerable concern. The issues involved are referred to in the report. The Committee is not satisfied with the way in which planning in these sections has proceeded. There is uncertainty about an option claimed over part of section 54 by the Canberra Commercial Development Authority, which operates the Belconnen Mall. The Canberra Revival Centre also faces difficulties because of proposed changes to planning in the area. 
The Committee endorses the view outlined in the report of the Australian Capital Territory House of Assembly that a comprehensive management plan for the Belconnen Town Centre should be prepared and believes that no further decisions should be taken on the development of section 54 in particular until this is done. However, the Committee considers that the development of the proposed library in the Town Centre should not be delayed by this decision. 
There will need to be much better communications between all those involved before such a plan is finalised. As the report does, so do I wish to again emphasise the Committee's concern and dissatisfaction with the way in which planning for the development of the Belconnen Town Centre has proceeded in recent times. The Committee intends to keep this matter under the closest possible scrutiny when future variations are proposed in the Town Centre. 
The Committee has also expressed in this report its concern about the limited time it has had to consider these variations. The Committee has expressed the view before that it is essential that proposed variations come to the Committee early in each parliamentary sitting period. On this occasion there was a long delay, with the result that the variations were advertised only towards the end of the current period. The result was that the Committee had to examine the variations immediately- the time for objections expired. We had then to finalise this report within three days so that we could be sure that the required six sitting days remained for the variations to be considered by this Parliament. 
We assume that there will now be six sitting days for this to occur but we can be by no means certain that this will be the case. This could mean that work on these variations will be delayed until next March. This is not a time in Canberra's development when such delays can be accepted. I therefore reiterate that this Committee expects that in future proposed variations will be advertised within a month of the commencement of the parliamentary sitting period. We take the view that the NCDC and the Department of the Capital Territory should organise their program in a way to meet such a requirement. We seek the co-operation of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  to ensure that this occurs. I commend the report to the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 9 October 1 979: 
What action has been taken in respect of the recommendation of the Working Party on Library Services in its report of April 1979 that the National Library establish and maintain a union catalogue of special materials for the handicapped. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
What action has been taken in respect of the recommendation of the Working Party on Library Services in its report of April 1979 that: 
all libraries reporting to the proposed union catalogue contribute records containing the minimum set of date elements required by the National Library and that these records be created in accord with the Anglo-American Cataloguing Rules (latest edition, as revised); and 
books in special mediums be catalogued as the original books from which they were transcribed and that information pertinent to the particular medium be added to the record, such information to be in a standard, internationally accepted form as defined by the National Library. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
What action has been taken in respect of the recommendation of the Working Party on Library Services in its report of April 1979 that the proposed union catalogue provide subject access to non-fiction works with a view to ensuring optimum utilisation of available resources. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
What action has been taken in respect of the recommendation of the Working Party on Library Services in its report of April 1979 that the National Library establish and maintain contact with major overseas programs with a view to fostering international exchange and inter-library loan arrangements for materials for the handicapped. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
What action has been taken in respect of the recommendation of the Working Party on Library Services in its report of April 1979 that the National Library act as a centre for international inter-library loans of library materials for handicapped people in Australia. 
Sentor Webster-  The Minister for Home Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to my answer to Question No. 2015. 
-I present the following petition from 4,4 1 4 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the establishment of a gambling casino in Canberra would debase the National Capital and increase crime in Canberra. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should seek to preserve the dignity of the National Capital by disallowing any ordinance to authorise the establishment of a gambling casino in Canberra. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate requests the Government to- 
Take action in relation to the requirement under section 34(a) of the Public Service Act 1922 that permanent public servants be British subjects, because it adversely affects the rights of many members of Australia's ethnic communities and limits the number of people in the workforce available to enter the Public Service as permanent employees; and 
b ) Implement the recommendation in the Report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration (paragraph 8.2.14) that all nationality requirements for permanent appointment to the Australian Public Service be abolished except where the Governor-General in Council prescribes Australian citizenship by regulation as a qualification (not a condition of eligibility) for particular positions. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. What is the present position in regard to the proposed ordinance concerning the handling and disposal of radioactive material in the Australian Capital Territory? As such laws apply, as I understand it, in the States and the Northern Territory, will the Government now give this matter priority with respect to the Capital Territory? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
What United Nations agreements, conventions and other similar agreements has Australia signed but not yet ratified, and when was each signed. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to reported comments of the Australian Labor Party's candidate for the seat of Canberra,  Mrs Kelly,  in yesterday's  Canberra Times  alleging that at least 20 Australian Capital Territory primary schools will lose their existing principals over the next four years? What are the facts in relation to band 4 principals in Australian Capital Territory primary schools? In particular, is there any truth in  Mrs Kelly's  allegation that the Government's decision on staffing would mean lower morale and fewer promotional opportunities for Canberra teachers? 
My question which is also directed to the Minister for Social Security relates to a proposed Italian-Australian social services agreement. Has the Minister seen a report in  La Fiamma  of 22 October to the effect that the proposed Italian-Australian social services agreement is being delayed by the Australian Government? Can the Minister say whether this is so, what stage has been reached with the proposed agreement and when it is expected that it might be concluded? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for National Development seen reports that the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  would support the establishment of a nuclear research reactor at Jervis Bay? Has the Government considered such a proposal? In particular, has the Government recently reconsidered earlier suggestions that a nuclear reactor be constructed at Jervis Bay? Has any decision been made on, or is any further consideration to be given to, the matter? 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I present a report on the proposals for variations to the plan of layout of the city of Canberra and its environments, 68A series, together with extracts from the minutes of proceedings of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a statement relating to the report. 
Leave granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 

This report relates to the Committee's report on the 67th series of variations. While the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  notice described the variation as a minor modification of a previously gazetted alignment between the old Canberra Brickworks and the Royal Canberra Golf Club it generated considerable community interest. Nine objections to the proposed variation were lodged and 12 witnesses appeared before the Committee. The modification is to a road which was recommended by the Committee in its report on the 67th series of variations to the plan of Canberra. The Committee has approved this variation but is concerned that little progress has been made with the recommendations in our report on the 67th series. That report recommended that proposals be presented by now which would provide for the development of Royal Canberra Golf Club to appropriate national and international standards. The Committee suggested the use of parts of the Yarralumla nursery and Lees paddock. 
The Committee also suggested that detailed discussions be held on Stage 2 of the West Yarralumla Tourist Road with CSIRO, the Royal Canberra Golf Club and the Department of the Capital Territory as the authority responsible for the Yarralumla nursery. The Committee considers that too little attention has been given to these recommendations and that this amounts to neglect of the findings of the Committee and the Parliament. The Committee must again express its concern at the delay. With this decision now having been made on Stage 1 of the West Yarralumla tourist road steps should be taken to ensure that planning proceeds on Stage 2 in accordance with the recommendations made by this Committee some six months ago. 
The Committee understands that the road dealt with in the variation which has now been approved is scheduled for construction in the financial year 1980-81. It therefore questions why this variation was brought to the Committee now, with an apparent degree of urgency, particularly as a limited number of parliamentary sitting days remain, and as the number of days for objections to be lodged was restricted as a result. I make the point again that this Committee expects the planning authorities to ensure that variations are put to us early in each parliamentary sitting period, that 21 days should be provided for objections and that ad hoc variations such as the one considered in this report should be avoided unless there are extenuating circumstances. The Committee is not satisfied that such circumstances existed in this case. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 8 October 1 979: 
How many houses have been constructed in the program to replace older houses at the Wreck Bay settlement in the Jervis Bay territory, as at 1 7 October 1979. 
How many houses have been completed in each year since 1975-76. 
What was the total value of work completed in each year. 
How many houses is it proposed will eventually be constructed in the course of this program. 
-I present the following petition from 4 1 6 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, the petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth that: 
In order to ensure the protection of the freedom of individuals to decide whether or not to join a socio-political association; and thereby to protect a fundamental human right and freedom of conscience in such matters; 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Parliament give speedy passage to the Australian National University (Amendment) Bill so that it is effective for 1980 enrolments. 
Petition received and read. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence: 
The Indo-Chinese refugee situation and Australia's role in assisting the refugees, with particular reference to the report of the Committee on Australia and the Refugee Problem, tabled in the Senate on 1 December 1 976. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, refers to proposals made in recent years, and more particularly in recent weeks and months, for the establishment of a Pacific community that is sometimes referred to as an organisation for Pacific trade, aid and development.  I  ask: What involvement has the Government had in the consideration of such proposals? Has the Government taken any initiatives in that respect and what further action might be expected? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the outcome of the recent elections in the New Hebrides, particularly since its national Parliament is to meet shortly? Can the Minister indicate whether the Government will ensure that it extends its co-operation to the new government of the New Hebrides and does everything in its power to assist it as it establishes the new independent government of the New Hebrides? 
I take the opportunity in the consideration of the estimates for the Department of the Capital Territory to refer to a statement made yesterday by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott).  The statement was responded to in the House of Representatives by the  Deputy Chairman  of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory,  Mr Fry,  and the shadow Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Innes.  It relates to the Committee's report on planning procedures in the Territory. I point out that I am referring to this statement after having consulted with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt),  the Opposition Whip and my colleague,  Senator Ryan.  The Minister reported to Parliament approximately one month ago, which was at the end of the six month period which has now been set down for ministerial replies to such reports, that he had not at the time been able to conclude consideration of the recommendations of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory but indicated that he hoped to provide his response by the conclusion of this parliamentary sitting period. He has now done so. 
I want to make a number of points about the Government's response. Of the 25 recommendations referred to in the Minister's statement 20 have been accepted by the Government and five have not. I will refer first of all to those that have not been adopted. The Committee recommended that betterment charges in relation to redevelopment should amount to 100 per cent of the increment. The Government has indicated, in the Minister's statement, that it has not accepted that recommendation and will retain the 50 per cent charge which now exists. The Minister points out that the Joint Committee's recommendation did not take into account the high risk to investors in most redevelopment proposals. It was felt that this would create disincentives at a time when Canberra is in need of development incentives. 
The Committee also recommended amendment to section 9a of the City Area Leases Ordinance. The Government has also not supported that proposal. The main reason was that the Committee had in fact suggested substantial fines as a penalty for offences under section 9a. The Minister has pointed out in his statement that in fact the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances dealt with this matter previously. He points out that acceptance of the recommendation of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory would again bring this issue under criminal jurisdiction and lead to possible further consideration by the 
Senate Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. The Minister makes a point also that the legislation, as it now stands, is, in the Government's view, working effectively and that unless problems arise in the future no change will be proposed to section 9a. 
Two other related recommendations are not accepted. The first is that the Minister for the Capital Territory should be the final arbiter in the preparation of planning in the Territory and that this should be set out in legislation. The second recommendation was that that same legislation should provide that the Minister be responsible for securing consistency and continuity in the framing and execution of a comprehensive policy with respect to the use and development of all land in the Territory in accordance with the structure and development plans which had been proposed by the Committee. Those are probably the two most substantive recommendations of the Joint Committee that have not been adopted by the Government. 
I emphasise that I am making these comments very much in a preliminary way. The statement was made available only yesterday. I am not speaking formally as  Chairman  of the Joint Committee. The Committee has not had a chance to meet and discuss these decisions. I am speaking in my capacity as a private member. I make the point that these are the two major substantive recommendations made by the Committee that the Government has not accepted. I have to express some disappointment that they have not been accepted but I shall refer to that in a moment in the context of the recommendations that have been accepted. 
The fifth recommendation that was not accepted related to the establishment of community councils in the Territory as a focal point for discussion of planning and other decisions within the Territory. Whilst the Government accepted the recommendation that such community councils should be established, it did not support the recommendation that the Minister for the Capital Territory should propose geographic areas, the population that ought to be covered by such councils and the functions to be administered by them. In one sense one can express satisfaction that the concept has been accepted but there is little uncertainty as to what the decision means with respect to the establishment of the councils. That is something on which the Committee might wish to have some clarification. It was suggested in the statement by the Minister that perhaps the Australian Capital Territory House of Assembly should have some direct role or that otherwise it should be done on the initiative of the community without the Government's becoming involved. 
I have referred particularly to the five recommendations which the Government has not supported and which it has indicated it does not intend to implement. Twenty of the recommendations were supported. I referred a moment ago to the fact that two of the recommendations relating to ministerial authority with respect to final planning decisions were rejected and that they were the two most substantive recommendations by the Committee which have not been supported by the Government. In the context of many of the recommendations that have been accepted, that those five have not been supported by the Government, while disappointing to the Committee, is not, perhaps, as much a problem as it might at first appear. Amongst the recommendations that have been accepted by the Government are recommendations providing for much more extensive public participation in the planning process in a more orderly fashion than has occurred in the past. I think that this, in itself, will lead to greater accountability to the community, particularly on the part of the National Capital Development Commission. Another recommendation that has been accepted by the Government in principle is the recommendation that there should be a land use tribunal for appeals against a range of planning decisions made in the Territory. My understanding is that the Government is considering whether the land use tribunal will be set up in its own right as the Committee recommended or established as an adjunct to or part of the system of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. However, I understand that the tribunal will certainly be set up. Again, this will give the community and the individual citizen a greater capacity to question planning judgments and will thereby ensure that planning authorities are more responsive and accountable to the community. In addition, the community council concept, if proceeded with and if there is sufficient interest in the community or through the Australian Capital Territory House of Assembly, could well lead to a more effective community participation in the decision-making process. 
The Government has also accepted recommendations thai regional planning be more effectively examined and brought into operation. I am sure that the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory will welcome those decisions. In general, I am pleased that the Minister has been able to get these matters settled during this parliamentary sitting period although it is very late in the sitting. It is pleasing that 20 of the 25 major recommendations of the Committee, or 80 per cent, have been adopted. Of the five that have not been supported by the Government, two in particular can be considered substantive. The other recommendations have not been supported for reasons that have been clearly stated and on which anyone would have to acknowledge that there is some substance. Overall, while I have no doubt there will be differing opinions amongst members of the Committee, I think there will be general satisfaction that a large number of the recommendations has been accepted. I have no doubt that they will have a very important impact on the future of planning procedures and the right of citizens in this Territory to participate in those planning activities in the process of preparing structure and development plans for the Territory. 
One final point I wish to make is that, as I understand is customary, the Government has made its decision on this Committee report. I expect it may be that the Committee will want to meet formally to have a look at these proposals by the Government. It may well be that as a committee we will want to discuss these matters with the Minister, particularly those two matters I have referred to as the more substantive recommendations that have not been supported by the Government. We may want to raise them again and ask that they be reconsidered. I understand that other members of the Committee in the House of Representatives tonight have expressed some greater disappointment than I have felt that some of these matters have not been accepted. I assume that the Government would have no objection to the Committee's putting some of these matters back to the Government for further consideration if it were felt by the Committee that that was warranted. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory and also, equally importantly, to the Minister for Science and the Environment. Is he aware of reports that the Mumimbidgee River, particularly below the Lower Molonglo Water Quality Control Centre, is now severely and increasingly polluted, that this pollution may now extend as far as Burrinjuck Dam and that flora and fauna along the river are being decimated as a result? Can the Minister indicate the precise extent of the damage being done to the Murrumbidgee which is one of Australia's major waterways? What action is the Government contemplating to overcome this problem? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 19 November 1979: 
Why has Australia signed, but not yet ratified, the Convention on the International Recognition of Rights in Aircraft. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 19 November 1979: 
Why has Australia signed, but not yet ratified, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships. 
-My question also is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it true that the use of cyclamates in foods has now been banned in the United States? Are cyclamates still extensively used in food and drink products in Australia? Can the Minister say whether any action is proposed as to the use of cyclamates in Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign affairs, upon notice, 18 October 1979: 
How many of those Australian citizens imprisoned overseas on: (a) drug related charges: and (b) other charges, are imprisoned: (i) pending, or in the course of, court proceedings; and (ii) as the result of a conviction that has been recorded. 
How long has each person in category (i) above, facing drug related charges, been imprisoned. 
How long has each person in category (i) above, facing other charges, been imprisoned. 
What prison term has been imposed on each person in category (ii) above, convicted on drug related charges, and how much of that prison term has been served in each case. 
What prison term has been imposed on each person in category (ii) above, convicted on other charges, and how much of that prison term has been served in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 18 October 1979: 
1 ) Why is it that more than one-third of the Australian citizens imprisoned overseas on 'drug related charges' are in ASEAN countries, and what measures are being taken, with each of the countries involved, to overcome this situation. 
Has the situation caused difficulties in Australia's relations with: (a) the ASEAN countries in general; and (b) each of the countries in which Australians are imprisoned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 18 October 1979: 
1 ) In which overseas countries where Australian citizens are imprisoned does Australia not have formal diplomatic or other representation. 
How are representations from, or the interests of, the Australian citizens involved dealt with in each of those countries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 19 November 1979: 
Why has Australia signed, but not yet ratified the Protocol of 1978 relating to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 19 November 1979: 
Why has Australia signed, but not yet ratified, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 19 November 1979: 
Why has Australia signed, but not yet ratified, the International Convention relating to Intervention on the High Seas in Cases of Oil Pollution Casualties. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 20 November 1 979: 
Why has Australia signed, but not yet ratified, the Convention on the Prohibition of Military or any Other Hostile Use of Environmental Modification Techniques. 
