asked the Minister rep resenting the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Has the Minister read press reports of the statement by  Sir Arthur  Lee. National  President  of the Returned Services League, that reestablishment benefits for Australian soldiers were completely inadequate. 
If these young men are forced to tight in a futile conflict while life in Australia goes on as usual, why will not the Government at least give them  a  chance to re-establish themselves adequately if and when they are returned from Vietnam. 
Is the Minister representing the Attorney-General aware that a meeting arranged by a Moratorium committee on Monday evening last in Sydney and attended by 450 decent Australian citizens was organised by a  Mr Bill  Weekes who, for 3 campaigns, was the campaign director for the State Liberal member for the electorate of Earlwood and who, for 9 years, was  President  of the Earlwood Liberal Party State Electorate Conference? Is the Minister aware that  Mr Bill  Morrison, M.H.R., Labor member for St George, was one of the principal speakers at that meeting? 
Even at this hour of the morning 1 feel that 1 have a duty to my own Party to express my attitude in relation to the war in Vietnam. Earlier in the day 1 was chided by  Senator Rae  for being a very silent member of the Senate. 1 have not been as silent as  Senator Rae  would have wished. On one occasion I spent half an hour - the full time allotted to me - expressing my views on the war in Vietnam. On that occasion 1 was not interrupted many times by honourable senators opposite. 
lt does not matter when it was. 1 have asked several questions about the war in Vietnam and have not been able to receive satisfactory answers. The latest question that I can recall having asked about the war in Vietnam was a follow up question to one asked by  Senator Dame  Dorothy Tangney just before she left the Parliament. She asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  whether Australia was at war in Vietnam. The question was a very simple one. She was asked to put it on the notice paper. She was told by the Leader of the Government, who is in the chamber now and can hear what I say, that the question was a leading one. Next day I asked Dame Dorothy whether she intended to follow up that question. She said: 'No. Perhaps it would be fitting if you did'. The next day I asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he had a reply to  Senator Dame  Dorothy Tangney's question. He said: No, not at this stage, but 1 hope to get a reply for the honourable senator a little later on'. He got ihat reply.  His  reply definitely staled thai Australia technically was not at war. I suggest that  Senator Greenwood  would have performed a much better task for his Parly tonight had he' refrained from mentioning the Moratorium that is to be given effect to on 3 days next month- 8th, 9th and 10th May. 
If the honourable senator had known what was to follow he would have refrained from mentioning the subject. He is tired in body and mind now, but 1 suggest that he will have to stay here a good deal longer to hear honourable senators on this side of the House express our views. Lest I be dubbed a coward and unpatriotic 1 state my own personal position and that of my son in relation to the war in Vietnam. I have been opposed to this excursion, or incursion, whichever the case may be - I am not sure of the correct word - into Vietnam. I have never been happy about it. My father lost his life serving his country in the 1914-18 war. 1 thought there was a very just cause to be served by fightin that war. I was much younger than the boys who are conscripted to go to Vietnam today. I tried to enlist when 1 was 17 years of age. 1 failed. I again tried to enlist when I was 18. The termination of the war precluded my entry into (he armed forces on that occasion. 
I was an organiser for the Australian Workers Union in 1939 when the Second World War broke out. 1 enlisted on that occasion. I was manpowered into my occupation. I do not think that honourable senators on the Government side can say that my family has not tried to do its bit when legitimate, declared wars threatened our shores. 1 turn now to the Vietnam situation. My son was of the age at which his name was included in the ballot. He was selected by the drawing of the marbles as one of the lads to be drafted into national service and who would probably ultimately find their way to Vietnam. I was not very happy about the method of selecting lads to go lo Vietnam. They were taken from the one age group and a selected few of those were chosen. I discussed the situation wilh my son and I do not think he was quite satisfied that there was not some just cause to be fought for in Vietnam. He said: 'Subject to my passing the physical test. 1 propose to go'. He added: 'If I could advance the wedding a little ! would go and do my 2 years.' So he made arrangements with the girl who is now his wife to advance their wedding date so that if he did find himself in Vietnam at least he would have somebody directly dependent upon him and something to look forward to on coming back from Vietnam. 
This is a personal story. As an amateur cyclist my son rode for a good while with an arm that was not of much use to him. It had been broken right at the elbow.  Dr Wall,  who is the orthopaedic surgeon at the Royal Hobart Hospital at present, treated him for 3 months in an attempt to correct that fault in his arm. Finally he was deemed to be physically unfit for the purpose for which he had been balloted. My interest in the overall situation did not end when my son was found to be physically unfit, because there were many sons in our nation who were going to be drafted to the conflict in Vietnam. I am still just as firmly in opposition to the war in Vietnam and all that it stands for as though my own son had been a participant in that war. I have always been opposed to it and always will be in the circumstances in which we find ourselves where we are providing a small quota in an undeclared war. 
We have not been able to find out from the Government how we became involved in the war. Nobody in authority has ever told us. I posed a question to the present Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  when he was Leader of the Government in the Senate. I asked him a simple question: Where, when and by whom was Australia committed to the war in Vietnam?' The Prime Minister got out of that one very simply by saying that there was no war in Vietnam. Our boys were there and being shot at but there was no war. 
I am quoting from memory, but is is very vivid in my memory. It can be checked, if that is what the honourable senator is worrying about. I can remember former  Senator Denham  Henty indicating that the United States asked Australia to join that nation in Vietnam. I can remember  Sir Paul  Hasluck, when he was Minister for External Affairs, saying that we were not in Vietnam at the behest of any nation or set of nations. He said that we are in Vietnam because we think we ought to be there, fighting to free the South Vietnamese people. I recall those incidents most vividly. There is a conflict of opinion amongst Government supporters themselves as to how we became participants in the unsatisfactory state of affairs in Vietnam. 1 turn now to consider opposition by members of the Liberal Party to our participation in the war in Vietnam. I remember an honourable senator opposite indicating that every honourable senator on that side of the chamber was in support of our participation in the war in Vietnam. I used what could be regarded perhaps as unparliamentary language when I said: Says you.' He replied: 'Yes, says me.' Nol more than a week later the late  Senator Clive  Hannaford was sitting over on this side of the chamber. He was so upset about the Government's attitude to the war in Vietnam that he left the Liberal Party and sat on the cross benches. I dare say that if the poor fellow were alive today he would join forces with honourable senators on this side of the chamber in the proposed Moratorium. ! think I could shock some Liberal Party senators from Tasmania if I were to name a number of prominent Liberal businessmen in Hobart who have expressed abhorrence of the war in Vietnam. It has been rumoured - but I have no confirmation of the rumours - that a Liberal member of Parliament left the House of Representatives because he could not explain to his son what the Australian Government's participation in the war in Vietnam was all about. Coming more up to date - this morning I asked a question about  Mr Bill  Weekes, a prominent Liberal. He organised a meeting held in Sydney on Monday evening.  Mr Bill  Morrison, a Labor member of the House of Representatives, was one of the two main speakers at that meeting. You cannot convince me that  Mr Bill  Weekes was the only Liberal in that audience or associated with that meeting. Do not let us have honourable senators opposite trying to hoodwink the nation that the only people associated with the Vietnam Moratorium campaign are members of the Labor Party plus a few Communists. They should not kid yourselves that they will get away with that. They will get such a mighty shock out of this particular organised demonstration 
I think you might. 
The honourable senator has already had one or two shocks, together with other Government supporters. They have had a fair few shocks in the last few months. I think the greatest shock came when the late Clive Hannaford left the Liberal Party because of the Government's participation in the Vietnam war and its mishandling of the Vietnam situation. In my assessment, it was shortly after that episode that support for the Government started to fall away and I think the majority of the Australian people found themselves on the side of the Opposition in their opposition to the war in Vietnam. Probably a few more speakers want to participate in this debate. I have not prepared a speech at all. As a matter of fact, I had no intention to speak. However, after some of the things that were said by the 2 Senators from the other side of the Senate who have already spoken I felt that I should say something. I understand that another  Senator is  itching to speak so I will resume my seat and give him an opportunity to come in and say his piece. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Will the Minister inform the Senate of the quantity of peas landed in Australia during the past 12 months under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement? 
I rise to support  Senator Wriedt  in relation to this matter of urgency and in doing so I want to say that 1 was interested in the statement made by  Senator Gair  that he was not concerned with paragraph (a) which reads: 
the omission of Tasmania from the Australian overseas container service; 
But he was concerned with paragraph (b) which reads: 
the inadequate shipping space and irregularity of schedules. 
I suppose it can be claimed that at the moment paragraph (b) would be more important to Tasmania than paragraph (a). I rather imagine that if  Senator Gair  really had the interests of Tasmania at heart he and his colleagues would be voting for Ihe adjournment of the Senate. 
 I heard  Senator Marriott  interject earlier that almost all of the sins which have combined to make an inadequate shipping service to Tasmania could be laid at the door of the Tasmanian Labor Government which was in office for 35 years. The voice of that Government went unheeded by the Federal Government for many years. I can recall studies that were made by very competent persons. Many, many years ago the Waterside Workers Federation prepared very substantial cases for presentation to shipping companies, shippers and the Commonwealth Government and for many, many years these submissions fell on deaf ears. It is only now being recognised that the Federal Government came into the picture and established the Australian National Line when it realised that if it did not speed the process up it would be left behind and probably would be voted out of office because of its tardiness in looking after the States generally. 1 cannot but think that the Commonwealth Government at this stage is remiss in not providing a line for overseas shipping that would compete with the private shipping lines. 1 think that it has a bounden responsibility to do this in the present scheme of things. 
The private companies will, of course, pick the eyes out of the best propositions that they can sight and neglect some of those that are not so profitable. I suppose that is only natural but I do not think that the Commonwealth Government has realised, particularly in relation to Tasmania, that with the lack of shipping facilities there we are being unduly penalised. This was exemplified quite recently in a small way by the fact that there was a build up of meat - admittedly small tonnages, perhaps less than 250 tons - under contract to Japan. I think a ship called during the week before last and shipped that cargo to Japan, lt was lagging by 6 months. Now, it appears that there is to be another lag of 6 months and another build up of meat contracted to be supplied to Japan. Another feature - perhaps a smaller matter - is the suggestion that Cadbury Fry Pascall Australia Limited intends to shift a very considerable proportion of its factory workings to Victoria because of the lack of facilities for shipping from Tasmania to Japan. 
If the Commonwealth Government had paid attention to the cries of the Tasmanian interests many years before it took an interest, we would be much better off than we are at the moment. As a former secretary of the Australian Labor Party in Tasmania, I can recall the number of times that very good cases were made out, presented to our State Conference and Federal Conference and, in conjunction with the Australian Council of Trade Unions, handed on to the Federal Government. In those cases we sued for conferences with shipping interests, but the unions in particular were simply given the cold shoulder. I do not know why that happened. Several of the cases that were made out were really worthwhile, in our opinion anyhow. We believed that it was time to get on with the business in view of the fact that Tasmania was going ahead very quickly and shipping facilities would certainly fall behind. 
So, when the former Labor Government in Tasmania is charged with being remiss, I reply by saying that I cannot remember a time when it was not right on the ball, pressing very hard for Federal aid. That aid came. I am not taking anything away from the Federal Government and its efforts. I simply claim that those efforts were made a little too late and have landed us in a position in which the shipping facilities now leave much to be desired. 1 think 
I should resume my seat after making those few observations, because doubtless other senators wish to speak. 
I may be rocking the boat, but if this urgency motion serves no other purpose it has brought before the Parliament the lack of shipping to serve Tasmania. We people from Tasmania will keep pressing at all times for better services, more co-operation and more coordination, lt seems to me that 'co-ordination' is the key word. In many respects there is no co-ordination in respect of shipping facilities for Tasmania. I believe that the Government should have a really good look at all aspects of the shipping needs of Tasmania so that we might be given a better deal. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services and follows on a question asked earlier by  Senator Fitzgerald.  Will the Minister advise the Senate whether Directors of the Department of Social Services in each State are clothed with discretionary powers enabling them to grant monetary aid to persons in urgent need for the provision of food, clothes and shelter in cases where such needs have not been satisfied by the already overtaxed resources of church and other charaitable organisations? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that a claimant before an cm klement appeals tribunal is limited to lay representation in support of his claim. 
ls it a fact thai qualified lawyers and qualified medical pratitioners judge the merit?, of claims before entitlement tribunals and assessment tribunals, but claimants are not permitted legal representation. 
Could there not be many cases in which the absence of such representation could be damaging and prejudicial lo claimants' interests. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In the light, of the fact that the lamentably small increase of 50c a week in pensions will not become effective until lst October next, and because increased costs of many commodities took effect very shortly after the Treasurer brought down the Budget, will the Government, on compassionate grounds alone,  make the increased payment of pensions retrospective to 18tb August in order to compensate pensioners, to some degree, for the 6 weeks during which they will have suffered under the high cost of living? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Since the Prime Minister has announced the Government's decision to grant pensions of $7,500 a year to 2 former Governors-General, will the Minister advise the Senate whether such pensions are to be paid retrospective to 1st January 1970, pro rata for the remainder of 1970, or alternatively, from 1st October 1970? 
It is true mat as an act of grace it has been decided to pay pensions to 2 former Governors-General. I understand that in one case the payment is supplementary and in the other case it is a new payment. The gentlemen concerned are  Sir William  McKell and Lord Slim. I cannot give the honourable senator the information he seeks, beyond what I have said. I will obtain further information for him and make it available. I believe that there is an overwhelmingly good reason for doing what is being done in each case. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. What has happened to the intention of the Government, stated some 18 months ago, to establish a bureau of criminology for the purposes of, among other things, the prevention of crime, corrective treatment of prisoners and aftercare and rehabilitation of prisoners? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As there is a widely based opinion that there should be some Federal body able to co-ordinate the anti-pollution codes and disciplines of the States, will the Minister explain the reason for the delay by the Government in dealing with the report of the Senate Select Commitee on Air Pollution which was tabled by the  Chairman  of the Commitee more than 12 months ago? 
No; I am asking why we have not debated the report, seeing that it was tabled more than 12 months ago. 
I see. In effect, the honourable senator wants a debate on the report in this place. We will have to have a look at that in terms of our timetable. I certainly will have a look at it later in the day. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate noticed the recent article in the Melbourne 'Age' headed Government Acts on National Service Breaches', in which the Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr Snedden,  is reported to have stated, inter alia, that all cases of apparent default were investigated and that action had been stayed pending consideration of a civilian alternative to military service? Could it be that, since the Government, in reply to a question by me - namely, is Australia at war? - indicated that Australia is technically not at war, it is finding great difficulty in avoiding the technicalities of the Federal Constitution in forcing young men to serve in the fighting forces as though Australia was technically at war? 
The whole of the backdrop to the honourable senator's question is in the portfolio of the Minister for Labour and National Service. Whilst the Minister representing that Minister may wish to respond to it, my own view is that it relates to certain incidents associated with that portfolio. I can put it to the Minister for Labour and National Service on notice if the honourable senator would like me to; or subsequently the Minister representing that Minister may wish to respond to it. 
ls the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of the serious situation that has developed in Tasmania as a result of that State's inability to maintain economic growth equal to that of the mainland States? Is the Minister also aware that Tasmania's population growth has almost reached stagnation and that as a result the State is receiving a progressively smaller share of Commonwealth financial grants each year? Will the Minister request the Treasurer to have a detailed report on the Tasmanian economy prepared and submitted to Cabinet for consideration of additional special grants to that State? 
Yesterday, I think it was, I introduced legislation in relation to grants to the States. In the second reading speech that was given there was an exposition of the situation of 
Tasmania, with particular emphasis on the special grants that we give to that State and with special reference to the Commonwealth Grants Commission which has a responsibility to examine the question of economic growth in relation to the whole of the Commonwealth. I think it would be premature to speak about this matter now as the legislation to which I have referred is on the business paper and when we come to debate it, if not today then on Monday, the honourable senator will have an opportunity to speak about this matter. Quite clearly, special consideration was given to Tasmania at the Premiers' Conference. Quite significant amounts are being given to Tasmania and certain provisions have been made for that State in relation to consideration by the Grants Commission. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I bring to his attention the fact that question No. 717 was placed on the notice paper on 24th September. Seemingly there is a marked reluctance on the part of the Government to reply to this question. Can the Minister guarantee that a reply will be furnished before the Senate goes into recess for the Senate election campaign? 
asked the Minister rep  resenting the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has the Minister noticed a recent article in the Melbourne 'Age' headed 'Government acts on National Service Breaches'. 
As the Minister was reported as stating inter alia, that all cases of apparent national service default were investigated, and that action has been stayed pending consideration of a civilian alternative to military service; and since the Minister in reply to a question by myself indicated that Australia is technically not at war, is the Government having great difficulty in complying with the Federal Constitution in forcing young men to serve in thefighting forces as though Australia was technically at war. 
